
10-K
0001.txt
10K2000




                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR
                  15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
                                ----------------
                          Commission File Number 1-8036
                                    ---------
                       WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.
                     --------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     Pennsylvania                                     23-1210010
- ------------------------------------              -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
  incorporation or organization)                 Identification Number)

 101 Gordon Drive, PO Box 645, Lionville, PA           19341-0645
 -------------------------------------------        ----------------
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code 610-594-2900
                                                     --------------
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

 Title of each class           Name of each exchange on which registered
- -----------------------        ------------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value               New York Stock Exchange
   $.25 per share

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:      None
                                                                      ----
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding 12 months (or for such  shorter  period that the  registrant  was
required  to file  such  reports),  and  (2) has  been  subject  to such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X . No .
                                      --- ---
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [_X_]

As of March 22, 2001, the  Registrant had 14,335,556  shares of its Common Stock
outstanding.  The market  value of Common  Stock held by  non-affiliates  of the
Registrant as of that date was $331,151,344.

Exhibit Index appears on pages F-1, F-2, F-3, F-4 and F-5.





                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

                      ------------------------------------
Documents  incorporated  by reference:  1) portions of the  Registrant's  Annual
Report to  Shareholders  for the  Company's  2000 fiscal year (the "2000  Annual
Report to  Shareholders")  are  incorporated by reference in Parts I and II; and
(2)  portions  of  the  Registrant's  definitive  Proxy  Statement  (the  "Proxy
Statement") are incorporated by reference in Part III.



                                     PART 1

Item 1.  Business

West  Pharmaceutical  Services,  Inc. (formerly The West Company,  Incorporated)
applies  value-added  technologies to the process of bringing new drug therapies
and  healthcare  products to global  markets.  West's  technologies  include the
design and manufacture of packaging  components for  pharmaceutical,  healthcare
and  consumer  products;  research and  development  of drug  delivery  systems;
contract  manufacturing  and packaging  services;  clinical  services;  contract
laboratory services; and other services that support the manufacturing,  filling
and packaging of pharmaceutical, healthcare and consumer products. The Company's
activities  are organized in three  operating  segments:  1) the Device  Product
Development  segment  (consisting of four regional business units serving global
markets)  designs,  manufactures  and sells stoppers,  closures,  medical device
components  and  assemblies  made from  elastomers,  metal and plastics;  2) the
Contract Services segment (consisting of three business units serving mainly the
United States market) provides  contract  manufacturing  and contract  packaging
services to the pharmaceutical and personal care industries, contract laboratory
services for testing  injectable drug packaging and clinical  research for Phase
I, II and III studies as well as post  clinical  studies;  and the Drug Delivery
Research and Development  segment  (consisting of two business units) identifies
and develops  drug  delivery  systems for  biopharmaceutical  and other drugs to
improve their therapeutic performance and/or their method of administration.  As
of December 31, 2000, the Company and its subsidiaries had 4,700 employees.

The Company,  a  Pennsylvania  business  corporation,  was founded in 1923.  The
executive  offices of the Company are located at 101 Gordon  Drive,  PO Box 645,
Lionville,  Pennsylvania  19341-0645,  approximately 35 miles from Philadelphia.
The telephone number at the Company's executive offices is 610-594-2900. As used
in this Item, the term "Company" includes West Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and
its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise indicates.


                           Device Product Development
                               Principal Products
                          ----------------------------

Pharmaceutical Stoppers
- -----------------------
The Company is the world's  largest  independent  manufacturer  of stoppers  for
sealing  drug  vials  and  other  pharmaceutical  containers.   Several  hundred
proprietary formulations are molded from natural rubber and synthetic elastomers
into a variety of stopper  sizes,  shapes and colors.  The  stoppers are used in
packaging serums, vaccines, antibiotics,  anesthetics, intravenous solutions and
other drugs and solutions.

Most stopper  formulations are specially designed to be compatible with drugs so
that  the  drugs  will  remain  effective  and  unchanged  during  storage.  New
elastomeric  compounds  must be tested  to show that they do not leach  into the
customer's  product or affect its potency,  sterility,  effectiveness,  color or
clarity. The Company's laboratories conduct tests to determine the compatibility
of  its  stoppers  with  customers'  drugs  and,  in  the  United  States,  file
formulation  information  with the Food and Drug  Administration  in  support of
customers' new drug applications.



Stoppers usually are washed,  sterilized and subject to other pre-use processes
by the customer or a third-party  before they are fitted on the  container.  The
Company has  introduced a value-added  line of stoppers that are  pre-washed and
ready  to be  sterilized,  eliminating  several  steps  in  customers'  incoming
processes.  The Company is also marketing a line of pre-sterilized stoppers that
can be introduced directly into customers' sterile drug-filling operations.

Metal Seals
- -----------
The Company also offers a broad line of aluminum seals in various sizes, shapes,
and  colors.  The  seals  are  crimped  onto  glass  or  plastic  pharmaceutical
containers  to hold the stoppers  securely in place.  The top of aluminum  seals
often  contains  tamper-evident  tabs or plastic  covers,  which must be removed
before the drug can be withdrawn.

Some aluminum  seals are sold with  specially  formulated  rubber or elastomeric
discs  pre-fitted  inside the seal.  These "lined" seals may be placed  directly
onto the  pharmaceutical  container,  thus  eliminating  the need for a separate
stopper.

Other Products
- ---------------
Other products for the pharmaceutical industry include:

      *   Products  used in the  packaging  of  non-injectable  drugs such as
          rubber  dropper  bulbs,  plastic  contraceptive  drug  packages,   and
          child-resistant and tamper-evident plastic closures

      *   Plastic  containers,  bottles,  and  closures  for the  consumer and
          medical device and diagnostic markets.

      *   Elastomeric and plastic components for empty and  pre-filled
          disposable syringes such as plungers, hubs, and needle covers

      *   Blood-sampling system components, including vacuum tube stoppers and
          needle valves, and a number of specialized  elastomeric and plastic
          components for blood-analyzing systems and other medical devices

      *   Components for IV Sets

      *   Disposable infant nursers and individual nurser components

The Company  also  manufactures  a wide range of standard  and custom-  designed
plastic threaded caps and containers for the personal-care  industry.  The caps,
produced  mainly for health and beauty aids,  come in many  different  sizes and
colors.  The Company also makes closures for food and beverage  processors.  The
Company focuses its efforts on multiple-piece  closures that require  high-speed
assembly.


Product Development
- ------------------------
The  Company  maintains  its own  laboratories  for testing  raw  materials  and
finished goods to assure conformity to customer  specifications and to safeguard
product  quality.  Laboratory  facilities  are also used for  development of new
products.  Engineering staffs are responsible for product and tooling design and
testing  and for  the  design  and  construction  of  processing  equipment.  In
addition, a corporate product development  department develops new packaging and
device concepts.  Approximately 94 professional  employees were engaged in these
activities in 2000.  Development and engineering  expenditures  for the creation
and application of new and improved device products and manufacturing  processes
were  approximately $9.3 million in 2000, $8.9 million in 1999, and $8.9 million
in 1998, net of cost reimbursements by customers.

                                Contract Services
                               Principal Services
                             ---------------------

Contract Packaging and Contract Manufacturing
- ---------------------------------------------
The Company  entered into the  pharmaceutical  services  market in 1995 with its
acquisition of Paco  Pharmaceutical  Services,  Inc.  ("Paco").  Paco's name was
changed to West Pharmaceutical Services Lakewood, Inc. ("West Lakewood").

West  Lakewood  provides  contract  manufacturing  and packaging of products for
pharmaceutical and consumer-products  companies. With its flexible manufacturing
environment and workforce,  West Lakewood has the capability to make and package
a variety of products according to customers' specifications,  usually employing
customer-supplied  raw  materials.  Once its  work is  complete,  West  Lakewood
delivers the finished product to the customer for final sale and distribution to
the end user.

Customers  typically  use  West  Lakewood  services  on  a  temporary  basis  to
supplement  their own  manufacturing  or packaging  capability  in times of peak
demand and during a new-product introduction or special promotion. However, West
Lakewood does retain long-term  business in both the manufacturing and packaging
areas. West Lakewood operates a facility in Lakewood, New Jersey. The Canovanas,
Puerto Rico facility was closed in early 2001 in  connection  with the Company's
2000 restructuring plan.

West Lakewood contract  packaging and  manufacturing  processes and services are
subject  to  the  Good  Manufacturing   Practice  standards  applicable  to  the
pharmaceutical  industry as well as to numerous other federal and state laws and
regulations governing the manufacture, handling and packaging of drugs and other
regulated substances.

West Lakewood manufactures liquids,  creams, solids,  suspensions,  and powders.
Products produced include:

      *     headache and cold medications

      *     skin lotions

      *     deodorants

      *     toothpaste and mouthwash


West  Lakewood  contract  packaging  services  include the design,  assembly and
filling of a broad variety of packages, including:

      *     blister packages (i.e., a plastic film with a foil backing)

      *     bottles and tubes

      *     laminated and other flexible pouches or strip packages

      *     aluminum and plastic liquid cup containers

      *     paperboard specialty packages

      *     innovative tamper-evident and child-resistant packages

Although  the type of  package  depends  on the  requirements  of the  customer,
blister  packaging or bottles  typically are used for tablets and capsules while
aluminum  or plastic  cups,  pouches,  bottles  and tubes are used for  liquids,
creams, ointments and powders.

Clinical Services
- -----------------
The  Company  entered  into the  clinical  services  market  with its April 1999
acquisition  of  the  Clinical  Services  division  of  Collaborative   Clinical
Research,  Inc. The Clinical Services Group operates three business units. These
Business units,  which are described more fully below, are: a Phase I-through-IV
Clinical  Trial  research  facility  (the "GFI  Research  Center");  a  clinical
research group (CRO) that conducts  marketing and clinical  research studies for
customers' prescription drugs, consumer products, and OTC switch projects; and a
site management  organization (SMO) that provides  assistance for clinical trial
studies.  The SMO unit will be closed in early 2001,  with ongoing studies being
supported through their conclusion.

West's GFI Research Center  conducts Phase I through Phase IV clinical  research
trials and provides other clinical research services including device and actual
use studies at its 80-bed unit located in Evansville,  Indiana. Phase I research
is  substantially  more  demanding  than other phases of the  clinical  research
process  because  healthy  volunteers  must  typically  be  sequestered  for the
duration of the study.  Phase II-IV studies are frequently more specialized with
respect to  therapeutic  patient  populations  required.  The diversity of GFI's
service  offering  has aided  the  development  of both  their  recruitment  and
clinical operations capabilities.

The CRO performs a variety of Rx clinical  services that assist client companies
in completing  Phase II-IV clinical  trials and  consumer-related  research that
assists  sponsor  companies  with Rx-to-OTC  switch and other  consumer  product
research  studies.  The CRO capabilities  include project  management,  clinical
study,   site   identification,    patient   recruitment,    monitoring,    data
management/statistics  and report writing.  West is distinguished by its' unique
blend of clinical  research and marketing  research as well as specialty patient
recruitment services.



Clinical Services division contracts provide a fixed price for each component or
service delivered.  The ultimate contract value depends on such variables as the
number of research sites  selected,  the number of patients  enrolled  and
other services required by the Sponsor.  These contracts range in duration from
several months to several years.  As services are performed over the life of the
contract, revenue is earned under the percentage-of- completion method utilizing
units of delivery.  Costs associated with contract revenue are recognized as
incurred.  Cash flows vary with each contract, although generally a portion of
the contract fee is paid at the time the trial begins, with the balance paid as
pre-determined contract  milestones  are satisfied.  Pre-payments received are
recorded as a liability under  "deferred revenue" until work has been completed
and revenue has been recognized.  Generally, Sponsors may terminate a contract
with the Company with or without cause. In the event of termination, the Company
is entitled to payment for all work performed through the termination  date and
for costs associated with termination of the study.

Contract Laboratory Services
- -----------------------------
In 1998, the Company  established  the contract  laboratory  services  business,
which provides  testing services to analyze  customers' drug product  packaging.
Regulatory  agencies  require  drug  companies  to  demonstrate  that  packaging
components  will not contaminate the drug. The test data generated is acceptable
for U.S. Food and Drug  Administration  (FDA) submissions.  The services offered
include  extractables  testing,  method  development and  validation,  stability
testing for extractables and active  substances,  moisture analysis of closures,
quantification  of closure  surface  silicone,  and other custom  services.  The
Company's laboratory complies with applicable Good Manufacturing  Practice (GMP)
standards and is FDA registered.

                            Research and Development
                              Drug Delivery Systems
                           --------------------------

Since 1993, the Company has been developing  proprietary  drug delivery  systems
for various  drug and  biological  products  for which  alternative  methods and
routes of  administration  might  improve  therapeutic  performance  or the cost
effectiveness of the therapy. In furtherance of that effort, in 1998 the Company
completed the acquisition of DanBioSyst UK Ltd (DBS), a research and development
company  located in Nottingham,  England.  DBS was re-named West  Pharmaceutical
Services  Drug  Delivery  &  Clinical  Research  Center,  LTD.  in 1999  and its
operations   integrated  with  the  Company's   Lionville  based  drug  delivery
operations  to  form  a  new  operating  segment,  Drug  Delivery  Research  and
Development.

West Drug Delivery  engages in both  independent and  client-funded  research to
develop unique  delivery  technologies,  patenting  these where  possible,  and,
subject  to any rights  granted  or ceded in  connection  with  client  funding,
retains the rights to exploit the patented  technology.  West Drug  Delivery has
patents or patent  applications  covering a range of delivery  technologies  for
various routes of administration,  including nasal, oral, parenteral, pulmunary,
rectal and vaginal. West Drug Delivery then seeks to license the technologies to
pharmaceutical  companies  for use in  combination  with  their  drug  products.
Alternatively, West will develop unique versions of generic drug products, which
incorporate its proprietary delivery technologies, and then seek development and
marketing partners or licensees for the resulting  products.  West Drug Delivery
also maintains  laboratory and clinical scale  manufacturing  capabilities  that
support client and internal development projects.



In 2000, West Drug Delivery's efforts were focused on:  client-funded  projects;
on the further development of proprietary formulations of the drugs morphine and
leuprolide,  both using the Company's  patented  chitosan-based  nasal  delivery
system;  and on the  development  of a proprietary  formulation of budesonide (a
steroid) using the company's Targit(R) system, an orally administered, specially
coated,  starch capsule system  designed to bypass normal  digestion and deliver
the drug to  particular  regions  of the colon for  local and  systemic  effect.
Initial  human  studies of the nasal  morphine  product were  completed  and the
product was licensed to a third party for further development in 2001.

West Drug Delivery had 65 employees as of December 31, 2000 and total  expenses,
net of revenues received, were $9.0 million in 2000 and $7.7 million in 1999.

                              Recent Developments
                              -------------------

The  Company  has taken  steps to  expand  its  product  offerings  and  improve
competitiveness  of both its Device Product  Development  and Contract  Services
operating segments.

In 1996 and 1997, the Company implemented a major restructuring plan announced
in 1996.  The plan included the closing or downsizing of six manufacturing
facilities, withdrawal  from  the  machinery  business  and an  approximate  5%
reduction in the workforce.  The restructuring was designed to reduce the costs
associated with multiple plant sites and shift certain  production  capacity to
lower-cost locations.  In 1998, a further 1% reduction in the workforce, made
possible by manufacturing  and other  operating  efficiencies,  was  announced.
(Additional information pertaining to the 1998 activities is incorporated by
reference to the Note "Restructuring Charges" of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements of the  2000 Annual Report to Shareholders.)

In 1998, the Company acquired Betraine Limited, a company located in England,
which manufactures  precision  injection  molded  plastic  components  for  the
healthcare and consumer industries. The acquisition expanded global capabilities
in the   non-injectable   market.  The Company's name was changed to West
Pharmaceutical Services Lewes (West-Lewes).

In 1999,  the Company  changed its  business  plan with  respect to its plastics
strategy concerning future market demands and total capacity requirements.  As a
result,  the  Company  reversed  a  portion  of its 1996  restructuring  reserve
pertaining to its Puerto Rico facility and wrote off the assets  associated with
a proprietary plastic product line that had not gained market acceptance.

In November  2000,  the Company  announced a plan to streamline  operations  and
improve  operating  efficiencies by reducing or consolidating  business units in
its Contract Services and Device Product Development segments. The plan included
the  closure of two plants in Puerto  Rico  engaged in  contract  packaging  and
plastics  device  molding and the   sterile-fill  suite at the Lakewood,  New
Jersey  facility,  and the  initiation  of other staff  reduction  cost  control
measures.  In  addition,   the  site  management   organization  (SMO)  business
operations  of the Clinical  Services  business  unit was closed as the business
model has proven  unsuccessful in the  marketplace and estimated  growth has not
materialized.  An after-tax  charge of $15.5 million was taken to fourth quarter
2000 earnings to reflect the writedown of goodwill, asset write-offs,  severance
charges, and other restructuring related costs.


                                  Order Backlog
                                 --------------

Device  product  orders on hand at December  31,  2000,  was  approximately  $92
million,  compared with  approximately $96 million at the end of 1999. Orders on
hand include  those placed by customers  for  manufacture  over a period of time
according to a customer's schedule or upon confirmation by the customer.  Orders
are  generally  considered  firm when  goods  are  manufactured  or  orders  are
confirmed.  The Company also has contractual  arrangements  with a number of its
customers, and products covered by these contracts are included in the Company's
backlog only as orders are received from those customers.

West   Lakewood's   twelve-month   backlog  of  unfilled   customer  orders  was
approximately  $11 million at December  31, 2000 and $9 million at December  31,
1999.  Backlog is defined by West  Lakewood as orders  written  and  included in
production schedules during the next twelve months. Such orders generally may be
cancelled by the customer without penalty.

The Clinical  Services  division  backlog consists of signed contracts yet to be
completed.  Contracts included in backlog are subject to termination or delay at
any time and therefore the backlog is not necessarily a meaningful  predictor of
future  results.  Delayed  contracts  remain  in  the  Company's  backlog  until
canceled.  As of December 31, 2000, the Clinical Services division's backlog was
$6.5 million; at December 31, 1999 the backlog was $6.2 million.

                                 Raw Materials
                                 --------------

The Company  uses three basic raw  materials  in the  manufacture  of its device
products:  elastomers,  aluminum,  and plastic.  The Company has been  receiving
adequate supplies of raw materials to meet its production needs, and it foresees
no significant availability problems in the near future.

The Company is  pursuing a supply  chain  management  strategy,  which  involves
purchasing from  integrated  suppliers that control their own sources of supply.
This  strategy  has reduced the number of raw  materials  suppliers  used by the
Company.  In some cases,  the Company will purchase raw materials  from a single
source to assure  quality and reduce costs.  This  strategy  increases the risks
that the Company's  supply lines may be  interrupted  in the event of a supplier
production problem. These risks are managed by selecting suppliers with multiple
manufacturing sites, rigid quality control systems, surplus inventory levels and
other methods of maintaining supply in case of interruption in production.


                              Patents and Licenses
                              ---------------------

The  Company's  device  products  patents  and  trademarks  have been  useful in
establishing  the  Company's  market  share and in the  growth of the  Company's
manufactured  device  product  business  and may  continue to be of value in the
future,  especially in view of the Company's  continuing  development of its own
proprietary  products.  Nevertheless,  the Company does not consider its current
manufactured device product business or its earnings to be materially  dependent
upon any single patent or trademark.

Although  not  material at this time,  the Company  believes  its drug  delivery
development capabilities will play an increasingly important role in the future.
The  Drug  Delivery  operating  segment  has a  growing  portfolio  of  patented
technology,  which is critical to the  Company's  success  because a significant
amount of future income is expected to be derived from licensing this technology
to customers.

                                Major Customers
                                -----------------

The Company provides  manufactured device components and/or contract services to
major   pharmaceutical,   biotechnology  and  hospital   supply/medical   device
companies,  many of  which  have  several  divisions  with  separate  purchasing
responsibilities.  The Company also  provides  contract  packaging  and contract
manufacturing  services for many of the leading  manufacturers  of personal care
products  and  clinical  research  services to full  service  contract  research
organizations.  The Company  distributes  its products  and  services  primarily
through its own sales force but also uses  regional  distributors  in the United
States and in the Asia/Pacific region.

Becton  Dickinson  and Company  ("BD")  accounted for  approximately  13% of the
Company's 2000  consolidated  net sales.  The principal  products sold to BD are
synthetic  rubber,  natural  rubber,  metal and plastic  components used in BD's
disposable syringes and blood sampling and analysis devices. The Company expects
to continue as a major BD supplier.

Excluding BD, the next ten largest customers  accounted for approximately 35% of
the  Company's  consolidated  net  sales in 2000  but no one of these  customers
accounted for more than 7% of 2000 consolidated net sales.

                                   Competition
                                   ------------

The Company competes with several  companies,  some of which are larger than the
Company, across its major Device Product Development product lines. In addition,
many  companies  worldwide  compete  with the  Company for  business  related to
specific product lines.  However,  the Company believes that it supplies a major
portion of the U.S. market  requirements for pharmaceutical  elastomer and metal
packaging  components  and has a  significant  share of the European  market for
these components.



Because of the special nature of these products,  competition is based primarily
on product design and performance,  although total cost is becoming increasingly
more important as pharmaceutical companies continue with aggressive cost control
programs across their entire operations.  Competitors often compete on the basis
of  price.  The  Company   differentiates  itself  from  its  competition  as  a
"full-service"  supplier that is able to provide pre-sale  compatibility studies
and other services and  sophisticated  post- sale technical  support on a global
basis.

The  Company  competes  against  numerous  competitors  in the field of  plastic
closures  for consumer  products,  many of which are larger than the Company and
command significant market shares. The Company differentiates itself through its
expertise in high-speed assembly of multiple-piece closure systems.

The U.S.  contract  packaging  and  manufacturing  service  industry  is  highly
competitive.   For  packaging  services,   West  Lakewood  competes  with  three
significant   companies,   all  of  which  are  larger  than  it.  For  contract
manufacturing  services,  West Lakewood competes with four major competitors and
several smaller regional companies; several of these competitors are larger than
it. In  addition,  most  domestic  pharmaceutical  companies  maintain  in-house
manufacturing  and packaging  capabilities  and at times will offer their excess
capacity  to  manufacture  or package  other  companies'  products on a contract
basis. However, most large pharmaceutical and personal healthcare companies have
traditionally made extensive use of contract packagers and manufacturers  during
times  of  peak  demand,  during  the  introduction  of a new  product  and  for
production of samples and special product promotions.

The clinical  research  industry is highly  fragmented  and comprised of several
large,  full-service Contract Research Organizations (CROs), many small CROs and
limited services  providers.  The major  competitors in the industry include the
research departments of pharmaceutical companies and CROs.

Many  companies   provide   proprietary   drug  delivery   technologies  to  the
pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets.  However, unlike West, the majority of
these companies are focused on a single route of drug  administration,  and very
few have capabilities  necessary to take drug products through all stages of the
development process and commercial manufacture. The three largest companies, the
market leaders, have multiple-delivery technologies, but their strong franchises
are  in  oral,   controlled-release   delivery  systems.  West's  drug  delivery
technologies,  none of which is currently in commercial production,  are in less
competitive segments that do not compete with the market leaders.

                            Environmental Regulations
                            -------------------------

The  Company  does  not  believe  that it will  have any  material  expenditures
relating  to  environmental  matters  other  than  those  discussed  in the Note
"Commitments and Contingencies" of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of
the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated herein by reference.


                                  International
                                 ---------------

The Note "Affiliated  Companies" and the Note "Segment  Information" of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial Statements of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference.

The  Company  believes  that  its  international  business  does not  involve  a
substantially  greater  business  risk  than  its  domestic  business.  Although
financial  crises have been evident at various  times during recent years in the
Asia/Pacific  region and in our major markets in South America and have at times
resulted in a decline in demand for the  Company's  products  in these  regions,
direct  sales  to  customers  in  these  markets  have   historically  not  been
significant.  In 2000,  such  sales  represented  less than 10% of  consolidated
sales.

The Company's  financial  condition and results are impacted by  fluctuations in
exchange-rate  markets (See Notes "Summary of Significant  Accounting Policies -
Foreign  Currency   Translation"  and  "Other  Income  (Expense)"  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the 2000 Annual  Report to  Shareholders,
incorporated herein by reference).  Hedging by the Company of these exposures is
discussed in the Note "Summary of  Significant  Accounting  Policies - Financial
Instruments"  and in the Note  "Financial  Instruments" of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements  of the 2000 Annual Report to  Shareholders,  incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 2.  Properties
        -----------

In the Device Product Development operating segment, the Company maintains eight
manufacturing  plants and two mold and die  production  facilities in the United
States,  one  manufacturing   plant  in  Puerto  Rico,  and  a  total  of  eight
manufacturing  plants and two mold and die  production  facilities  in  Germany,
England,  France,  Denmark,  Brazil and  Singapore.  The Puerto Rico facility is
scheduled to be closed in mid-year 2001.

In the Contract Services operating  segment,  the Company maintains one facility
in  Lakewood,  New  Jersey  to  provide  contract  manufacturing  and  packaging
services. Clinical research services are provided by West Evansville from leased
space in Indianapolis,  Indiana   and Evansville,  Indiana.  Contract laboratory
services are provided from the Company's Lionville, Pennsylvania facility.

The Company's executive offices,  U.S. research and development center and pilot
plant are located in a leased  facility  at  Lionville,  Pennsylvania,  about 35
miles from  Philadelphia.  The  Company  conducts  drug  delivery  research  and
development  in a leased  facility  located in  Nottingham,  England.  All other
company  facilities are used for manufacturing and distribution,  and facilities
in  Eschweiler,  Germany,  are also used for  development  activities for device
products.



The manufacturing production facilities of the Company are well maintained,  are
operating  generally  on a two- or  three-shift  basis and are  adequate for the
Company's present needs.

The principal facilities in the United States and Puerto Rico are as follows:


- -     Approximately  775,000 square feet of owned and  1,085,000 square feet of
      leased space  in  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey,  Florida,  Nebraska,  North
      Carolina, Ohio and Indiana.

The principal international facilities are as follows:

- -     Approximately 500,000 square feet of owned space and 86,000 square feet of
      leased space in Germany, England, Denmark and France.

- -     Approximately 250,000 square feet of owned space in Brazil.

- -     Approximately 90,000 square feet of owned space in Singapore.


     Sales office  facilities in separate  locations are leased under short-term
arrangements.

     The Company  also holds for sale  former  manufacturing  facility  space in
Puerto Rico - totaling 42,000 square feet.



Item 3.           Legal Proceedings.
                  -----------------
None

Item 4.           Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
                  ---------------------------------------------------
None.

Item 4 (a) Executive Officers of the Registrant

None.



Item 4 (a) Executive Officers of the Registrant

          -----------------------------------------

The executive officers of the Company at March 30, 2001 were as follows:

Name                          Age    Business Experience During Past Five Years
- ----                          ---    ----------------------------------------
Joseph E. Abbott 1             48    Corporate Controller. Previously Director
                                     of Internal Audit since 1997; Controller,
                                     Clopay Corp. from June 1996 to April 1997;
                                     previously Controller, ARCO Chemical
                                     Americas.

George R. Bennyhoff 1          57    Senior Vice President, Human Resources
                                     and Public Affairs.

Steven A. Ellers 1             50    Executive Vice President previously Senior
                                     Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
                                     since March 1998; Group President from
                                     August 1997 to February 1998; Corporate
                                     Vice President, Sales from April 1996 to
                                     July 1997; previously Vice President,
                                     Operations.

John R. Gailey III 1          46     Vice President, General Counsel and
                                     Secretary.

Stephen M. Heumann 1          59     Vice President, Treasurer and Assistant
                                     Secretary.

Lawrence P. Higgins 1         61     Vice President, Operations since May
                                     1996.  Prior to joining the Company,
                                     Mr. Higgins was an international business
                                     consultant.



1 Holds  position as corporate  officer  elected by the Board of Directors for a
one-year term.




Name                            Age  Business Experience During Past Five Years
- ----                            ---  --------------------------------------
Herbert F. Hugill 1              53  Division President, Sales and Contract
                                     Services since June 2000; previously
                                     Division President, Clinical Services
                                     since November 1999 and General Manager
                                     of the Clinical Services Group from its
                                     acquisition in April 1999.  Previously
                                     Mr. Hugill served as Chief Operating
                                     Officer and Director from December 1997
                                     of Collaborative Clinical Research,
                                     Inc. from which the Company purchased
                                     the Clinical Service Division.  From
                                     1996 to 1997 Mr. Hugill was President
                                     and Chief Executive Officer and a
                                     Director of Mediscience Technology
                                     Corp., a development stage biomedical
                                     technology company, and prior thereto
                                     President, RP Scherer North America, a
                                     drug delivery systems company.

William G. Little 1             58   Chairman of the Board and Chief
                                     Executive Officer, President of the
                                     Company until September 1998.

Donald E. Morel, Jr.,Ph.D.1     43   Division President, Drug Delivery
                                     Systems since November 1999; Group
                                     President from March 1998 to October 1999;
                                     Corporate Vice President, Scientific
                                     Services from May 1995 to February 1998.

Anna Mae Papso 1                57   Corporate Vice President, Finance since
                                     June 2000; Previously Vice President &
                                     Corporate Controller.

Anthony A. Sinkula, Ph.D.1      63   Vice President and Chief Scientific
                                     Officer since July 1998 and prior to
                                     joining the Company a consultant to
                                     several major pharmaceutical companies
                                     and the National Cancer Institute.


1 Holds  position as corporate  officer  elected by the Board of Directors for a
one-year term.





                                     PART II

Item 5.           Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
                  Stockholder Matters
                  ----------------------------------------------------
The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the high
and low prices for the stock for each calendar  quarter in 2000 and 1999 were as
follows:



As of December 31, 2000,  the Company had 1,780  shareholders  of record.  There
were also 2,200  holders of shares  registered in nominee  names.  The Company's
common  stock paid a  quarterly  dividend of $.16 per share in each of the first
three quarters of 1999; $.17 per share in the fourth quarter of 1999 and each of
the first three  quarters of 2000;  and $.18 per share in the fourth  quarter of
2000.

Item 6.        Selected Financial Data.
               -----------------------
Information  with  respect  to the  Company's  net  sales,  income  (loss)  from
consolidated  operations,  income (loss)  before  change in  accounting  method,
income (loss)  before change in accounting  method per share (basic and assuming
dilution) and dividends paid per share is  incorporated by reference to the line
items  corresponding to those categories under the heading  "Ten-Year  Summary -
Summary of  Operations" of the 2000 Annual Report to  Shareholders.  Information
with respect to total assets and total debt is  incorporated by reference to the
line items corresponding to those categories under the heading "Ten-Year Summary
- - Year-End Financial Position" of the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 7.        Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
               and Results of Operations.
               ---------------------------------------------------------
The information called for by this Item is incorporated by reference to the text
appearing  in the  "Financial  Review"  section  of the 2000  Annual  Report  to
Shareholders.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk
         --------------------------------------------------------
The  information  called for by this Item is  incorporated  by  reference to the
Notes "Financial  Instruments" and "Summary of Significant  Accounting Policies"
of Notes to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  of the 2000  Annual  Report to
Shareholders.





Item 8.        Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
               -------------------------------------------
The  information  called  for by  this  Item is  incorporated  by  reference  to
"Consolidated   Financial   Statements",   "Notes  to   Consolidated   Financial
Statements",  and "Quarterly  Operating and Per Share Data  (Unaudited)"  of the
2000 Annual Report to Shareholders.

Item 9.        Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
               Accounting and Financial Disclosure.
               -------------------------------------------------------

None.


                                    PART III

Item 10.        Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.
                ---------------------------------------------------
Information  called for by this Item is  incorporated  by reference to "PROPOSAL
#1:  ELECTION OF  DIRECTORS"  and "STOCK  OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS" in the Proxy Statement.

Information  about executive  officers of the Company is set forth in Item 4 (a)
of this report.

Item 11.        Executive Compensation.
                -----------------------
Information   called  for  by  this  Item  is   incorporated   by  reference  to
"COMPENSATION   OF  DIRECTORS  AND  NAMED   EXECUTIVE   OFFICERS";   and  "BOARD
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT ON EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION" contained in the Proxy
Statement.

Item 12.        Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
                Management.
                ---------------------------------------------------
Information  called for by this Item is  incorporated by reference to "STOCK
OWNERSHIP OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" contained in the Proxy Statement.

Item 13.        Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.
                -----------------------------------------------
None



PART IV

Item 14.        Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on
                Form 8-K.
                -------------------------------------------------------


(a)1.       The following report and consolidated financial statements,
            included in the 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders,  have been
            incorporated herein by reference:

            Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
            December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

            Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
            for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and

            Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and

            Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
            years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

            Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years
            ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

            Report of Independent Accountants

(a)2.       Supplementary Financial Information

            Schedules are omitted  because they are either not  applicable,  not
            required or because the  information  required is  contained  in the
            consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

(a)3.       See Index to Exhibits on pages F-1, F-2, F-3, F-4 and
            F-5 of this Report.

(b)         There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by the Company
            in the fourth quarter of 2000.

(c)         The exhibits are listed in the Index to Exhibits on pages F-1,  F-2,
            F-3, F-4 and F-5 of this Report.

(d)         Financial Statements of affiliates are omitted because
            they do not meet the tests of a significant subsidiary
            at the 20% level.




                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the  requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934, West Pharmaceutical  Services,  Inc. has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

WEST PHARMACEUTICAL SERVICES, INC.
                                  (Registrant)

By /s/ A. M. Papso

- --------------------------------
Anna Mae Papso
Corporate Vice President, Finance


March 30, 2001
- --------------------------------
Date





Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed  below by the  following  persons in the  capacities  and on the
dates indicated.










                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS
Exhibit
Number

(3) (a)           Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation
                  of the Company through January 4, 1999
                  incorporated by reference to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1998 (File No. 1-8036).

(3) (b)           Bylaws of the Company, as amended through
                  October 27, 1998, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit (3)(b) to the Company's Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended September 30, 1998 (File No.
                  1-8036).

(4)               Miscellaneous long term debt instruments and credit
                  facility agreements of the Company, under which the
                  underlying authorized debt is equal to less than ten
                  percent of the total assets of the Company and its
                  subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, may not be
                  filed as exhibits to this report pursuant to Section
                  (b) (4) (iii) A of Item 601 of Reg S-K.  The Company
                  agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon request,
                  copies of any such unfiled instruments. (File No.
                  1-8036).

(4) (a)           Form of stock certificate for common stock
                  incorporated by reference to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1998 (File No. 1-8036).

(4) (b)           Note Purchase Agreement dated as of April 8, 1999
                  among the Company and the insurance companies
                  identified on a schedule thereto, incorporated by
                  reference to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended September 30, 2000.  (File No. 1-8036).

(4) (c)           Credit Agreement, dated as of July 26, 2000
                  among the Company, the banks identified on a
                  schedule thereto, and PNC Bank, N.A., as agent
                  for the banks, incorporated by reference to the
                  Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  September 30, 2000.  (File No. 1-8036).

(9)               None.

(10) (a)          Lease dated as of December 31, 1992 between
                  Lion Associates, L.P. and the Company,
                  relating to the lease of the Company's
                  headquarters in Lionville, Pa., incorporated
                  by reference to the Company's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992
                  (File No. 1-8036).

                                      F - 1



Exhibit
Number

(10) (b)          First Addendum to Lease dated as of May 22,
                  1995 between Lion Associates, L.P. and the
                  Company, incorporated by reference to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1995 (File No. 1-
                  8036).

(10) (c)          Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended March 2,
                  1993, incorporated by reference to the
                  Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                  year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 1-
                  8036).

(10) (d)          Amendments to the Long Term Incentive Plan,
                  dated April 30, 1996, incorporated herein by
                  reference to the Company's Form 10Q for the
                  quarter ended June 30, 1996 (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (e)          1999 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan for Non-
                  Employee Directors, effective as of April 27,
                  1999, incorporated by reference to the
                  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended June 30, 1999 (File No. 1-
                  8036).

(10) (f)          Form of Director Stock Option Agreement,
                  incorporated by reference to the Company's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended June 30, 1999 (File No. 1-8036)..

(10) (g)          Form of second amended and restated agreement
                  between the Company and certain of its executive
                  officers dated as of March 25, 2000, incorporated
                  by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report
                  on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2000.
                  (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (h)          Schedule of agreements with executive officers,
                  incorporated by reference to the Company's
                  Quarterly Report on Forms 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended June 30, 2000.  (File No.1-8036).

(10) (i)          Supplemental Employees' Retirement Plan,
                  incorporated by reference to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1989 (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (j)          Amendment No. 1 to Supplemental Employees'
                  Retirement  Plan,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's
                  Annual  Report on Form 10-K for the year  ended  December  31,
                  1995 (File No. 1- 8036).


                                     F - 2


Exhibit
Number

(10) (k)          Amendment No. 2 to Supplemental Employees'
                  Retirement  Plan,  incorporated  by reference to the Company's
                  Quarterly  Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended  September
                  30, 1995 (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (l)          Retirement Plan for Non-Employee Directors
                  reflecting amendments effective on November 5,
                  1991, April 28, 1998 and May 27, 1999,
                  incorporated by reference to the Company's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
                  ended June 30, 1999 (File No. 1-8036).

 (10) (m)         Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated
                  as of March 25, 2000 between the Company and William G.
                  Little, incorporated by reference to the Company's
                  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  March 31, 2000. (File No. 1-8036).

 (10) (n)         Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan for
                  Designated Executive Officers adopted August 30,
                  1994, reflecting amendments effective on March 7,
                  1995, April 28, 1998 and April 1, 2000, incorporated
                  by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on
                  Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000.
                  (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (o)          Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside
                  Directors, as amended and restated effective
                  May 27, 1999, incorporated by reference to the
                  Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
                  the quarter ended September 30, 1999 (File No.
                  1-8036).

(10) (p)          1999 Stock-Equivalent Compensation Plan for
                  Non-Employee  Directors,  incorporated  by  reference  to  the
                  Company's  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
                  June 30, 1999 (File No. 1-8036).

(10) (q)          Lease Agreement, dated August 31, 1978,
                  between Paco Packaging, Inc. and Nineteenth
                  Lakewood Corp., as amended by Amendment of
                  Lease, dated November 30, 1978, Second
                  Amendment of Lease, dated August 6, 1979,
                  Third Amendment of Lease, dated July 24, 1980
                  and Fourth Amendment of Lease, dated August
                  14, 1980, incorporated by reference to the
                  Exhibits to Paco Pharmaceutical Services,
                  Inc's Registration Statement on Form S-1,
                  Registration No. 33-48754, filed with the
                  Commission.


                                      F - 3




Exhibit
Number

(10) (r)          Fifth Amendment of Lease, dated May 13, 1994,
                  to the Lease Agreement, dated August 31, 1978,
                  between Paco Packaging, Inc. and Nineteenth
                  Lakewood Corp., incorporated by reference to
                  the Exhibits to Paco Pharmaceutical Services,
                  Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
                  ended March 31, 1994 (File number 0-20324).

(10) (s)          Lease Agreement, dated December 9, 1977,
                  between Paco Packaging, Inc. and New Oak
                  Street Corp., as amended by the Amendment to
                  Lease Agreement, dated August 31, 1978, Second
                  Amendment of Lease, dated April 8, 1979 and
                  Third Amendment of Lease, dated November 16,
                  1983, incorporated by reference to the
                  Exhibits to Paco Pharmaceutical Services,
                  Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-1,
                  Registration No. 33-48754, filed with the
                  Commission.

(10) (t)          Lease Agreement, dated April 7, 1986, between
                  Northlake Realty Co. Inc. and Paco Packaging,
                  Inc., as amended by Amendment to Lease, dated
                  July 1, 1986, Second Amendment of Lease, dated
                  June 15, 1987 between Paco Packaging and C. P.
                  Lakewood, L. P., Agreement, dated December 29,
                  1987, and Lease Modification Agreement, dated
                  December 13, 1989, incorporated by reference
                  to the Exhibits to Paco Pharmaceutical
                  Services, Inc.'s Registration Statement on
                  Form S-1, Registration No. 33-48754, filed
                  with the Commission.

(10) (u)          Collective Bargaining Agreement, dated
                  December 1, 1997, by and between Paco
                  Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. and Teamster
                  Local 35 (affiliated with the International
                  Brotherhood of Teamsters), incorporated by
                  reference to the Company's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997
                  (File No.1-8036).

(10) (v)          1998 Key Employee Incentive Compensation Plan,
                  dated March 10, 1998, incorporated by
                  reference to the Company's Annual Report on
                  Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997
                  (File No.1-8036).





                                   F - 4




Exhibit
Number


(10) (w)          Asset Purchase Agreement Among Collaborative
                  Clinical Research, Inc., GFI Pharmaceutical
                  Services, Inc., and Collaborative Holdings, Inc.
                  and the Company dated December 21, 1998,
                  incorporated by reference to the Company's
                  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
                  December 31, 1998 (File No.1-8036).

(10) (x)          Form of Bonus Agreement between the Company
                  and certain of its executive officers dated
                  as of December 21, 2000.  Portions of this
                  Exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request
                  for confidential treatment.

(10) (y)          Schedule of agreements with certain executive
                  officers.

(11)              Not Applicable.

(12)              Not Applicable.

(13)              Portions of 2000 Annual Report to Shareholders.

(16)              Not applicable.

(18)              None.

(21)              Subsidiaries of the Company.

(22)              None.

(23)              Consent of Independent Accountants.

(24)              Powers of Attorney.

(27)              Financial Data Schedules

(99)              None.










                                     F - 5

