
10-K405
1
AEPCO 1994 10-K


     

          
          _________________________________________________________________
          -----------------------------------------------------------------
                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                                WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   ----------------
                                      FORM 10-K
                                   ----------------
          (Mark One)

          [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

               For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

          [_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

               For the transition period from __________ to ___________
                                    --------------
          PART I ----------------------------------------------------------

          Item 1.  BUSINESS
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

          GENERAL

            AEP was incorporated under the laws of the State of New York
          in 1906 and reorganized in 1925.  It is a public utility holding
          company which owns, directly or indirectly, all of the
          outstanding common stock of its operating electric utility
          subsidiaries.  Substantially all of the operating revenues of AEP
          and its subsidiaries are derived from the furnishing of electric
          service.

            The service area of AEP's electric utility subsidiaries covers
          portions of the states of Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio,
          Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia.  The generating and
          transmission facilities of AEP's subsidiaries are physically
          interconnected, and their operations are coordinated, as a single
          integrated electric utility system.  Transmission networks are
          interconnected with extensive distribution facilities in the
          territories served.  At December 31, 1994, the subsidiaries of
          AEP had a total of 19,660 employees.  AEP, as such, has no
          employees.  The principal operating subsidiaries of AEP are:

               APCo (organized in Virginia in 1926) is engaged in the
            generation, purchase, transmission and distribution of
            electric power to approximately 848,000 retail customers in
            the southwestern portion of Virginia and southern West
            Virginia, and in supplying electric power at wholesale to
            other electric utility companies and municipalities in those
            states and in Tennessee.  At December 31, 1994, APCo and its
            wholly owned subsidiaries had 4,637 employees.  A generating
            subsidiary of APCo, Kanawha Valley Power Company, which owns
            and operates under Federal license three hydroelectric
            generating stations located on Government lands adjacent to
            Government-owned navigation dams on the Kanawha River in West
            Virginia, sells its net output to APCo.  Kanawha Valley Power
            Company has requested regulatory approval to merge into APCo. 
            Among the principal industries served by APCo are coal mining,
            primary metals, chemicals, textiles, paper, stone, clay,
            glass, concrete products, rubber, plastic products and
            furniture.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections,
            APCo also is interconnected with the following unaffiliated
            utility companies:  Carolina Power & Light Company, Duke Power
            Company and VEPCo.  A comparatively small part of the
            properties and business of APCo is located in the northeastern
            end of the Tennessee Valley.  APCo has several points of
            interconnection with TVA and has entered into agreements with
            TVA under which APCo and TVA interchange and transfer electric
            power over portions of their respective systems.

               CSPCo (organized in Ohio in 1937, the earliest direct
            predecessor company having been organized in 1883) is engaged
            in the generation, purchase, transmission and distribution of
            electric power to approximately 588,000 customers in Ohio, and
            in supplying electric power at wholesale to other electric
            utilities and to municipally owned distribution systems within
            its service area.  At December 31, 1994, CSPCo had 2,323
            employees.  CSPCo's service area is comprised of two areas in<PAGE>
            Ohio, which include portions of twenty-five counties.  One
            area includes the City of Columbus and the other is a
            predominantly rural area in south central Ohio.  Approximately
            80% of CSPCo's retail revenues are derived from the Columbus
            area.  Among the principal industries served are food
            processing, chemicals, primary metals, electronic machinery
            and paper products.  In addition to its AEP System
            interconnections, CSPCo also is interconnected with the
            following unaffiliated utility companies:  CG&E, DP&L and Ohio
            Edison Company.

               I&M (organized in Indiana in 1925) is engaged in the
            generation, purchase, transmission and distribution of
            electric power to approximately 531,000 customers in northern
            and eastern Indiana and southwestern Michigan, and in
            supplying electric power at wholesale to other electric
            utility companies, rural electric cooperatives and
            municipalities.  At December 31, 1994, I&M had 3,817
            employees.  Among the principal industries served are primary
            metals, transportation equipment, fabricated metal products,
            electrical and electronic machinery, rubber and miscellaneous
            plastic products and chemicals and allied products.  Since
            1975, I&M has leased and operated the assets of the municipal
            system of the City of Fort Wayne, Indiana.  In addition to its
            AEP System interconnections, I&M also is interconnected with
            the following unaffiliated utility companies:  Central
            Illinois Public Service Company, CG&E, Commonwealth Edison
            Company, Consumers Power Company, Illinois Power Company,
            Indianapolis Power & Light Company, Louisville Gas and
            Electric Company, Northern Indiana Public Service Company, PSI
            Energy Inc. and Richmond Power & Light Company.

               KEPCo (organized in Kentucky in 1919) is engaged in the
            generation, purchase, transmission and distribution of
            electric power to approximately 163,000 customers in an area
            in eastern Kentucky, and in supplying electric power at
            wholesale to other utilities and municipalities in Kentucky. 
            At December 31, 1994, KEPCo had 823 employees.  In addition to
            its AEP System interconnections, KEPCo also is interconnected
            with the following unaffiliated utility companies:  Kentucky
            Utilities Company and East Kentucky Power Cooperative Inc. 
            KEPCo is also interconnected with TVA.

               Kingsport Power Company (organized in Virginia in 1917)
            provides electric service to approximately 41,000 customers in
            Kingsport and eight neighboring communities in northeastern
            Tennessee.  Kingsport Power Company has no generating
            facilities of its own.  It purchases electric power
            distributed to its customers from APCo.  At December 31, 1994,
            Kingsport Power Company had 104 employees.

               OPCo (organized in Ohio in 1907 and reincorporated in 1924)
            is engaged in the generation, purchase, transmission and
            distribution of electric power to approximately 662,000
            customers in the northwestern, east central, eastern and
            southern sections of Ohio, and in supplying electric power at
            wholesale to other electric utility companies and
            municipalities.  At December 31, 1994, OPCo and its wholly
            owned subsidiaries had 5,404 employees.  Among the principal
            industries served by OPCo are primary metals, rubber and
            plastic products, stone, clay, glass and concrete products,
            petroleum refining, chemicals and electrical and electronic
            machinery.  In addition to its AEP System interconnections,<PAGE>
            OPCo also is interconnected with the following unaffiliated
            utility companies:  CG&E, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
            Company, DP&L, Duquesne Light Company, Kentucky Utilities
            Company, Monongahela Power Company, Ohio Edison Company, The
            Toledo Edison Company and West Penn Power Company.

               Wheeling Power Company (organized in West Virginia in 1883
            and reincorporated in 1911) provides electric service to
            approximately 41,000 customers in northern West Virginia. 
            Wheeling Power Company has no generating facilities of its
            own.  It purchases electric power distributed to its customers
            from OPCo.  At December 31, 1994, Wheeling Power Company had
            141 employees.

            Another principal electric utility subsidiary of AEP is AEGCo,
          which was organized in Ohio in 1982 as an electric generating
          company.  AEGCo sells power at wholesale to I&M, KEPCo and VEPCo. 
          AEGCo has no employees.

            See Item 2 for information concerning the properties of the
          subsidiaries of AEP.

            The Service Corporation provides accounting, administrative,
          computer, engineering, financial, legal and other services at
          cost to the AEP System companies.  The executive officers of AEP
          are all employees of the Service Corporation.

          REGULATION

             General

            AEP and its subsidiaries are subject to the broad regulatory
          provisions of PUHCA administered by the SEC.  The public utility
          subsidiaries' retail rates and certain other matters are subject
          to regulation by the public utility commissions of the states in
          which they operate.  Such subsidiaries are also subject to
          regulation by the FERC under the Federal Power Act in respect of
          rates for interstate sale at wholesale and transmission of
          electric power, accounting and other matters and construction and
          operation of hydroelectric projects.  I&M is subject to
          regulation by the NRC under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as
          amended, with respect to the operation of the Cook Plant.

             Possible Change to PUHCA

            The provisions of PUHCA, administered by the SEC, regulate all
          aspects of a registered holding company system, such as the AEP
          System.  PUHCA requires that the operations of a registered
          holding company system be limited to a single integrated public
          utility system and such other businesses as are incidental or
          necessary to the operations of the system.  In addition, PUHCA
          governs, among other things, financings, sales or acquisitions of
          assets and intra-system transactions.

            On November 8, 1994, the SEC issued a release in which it
          discussed the need to modernize PUHCA, particularly in light of
          increasing competition in the electric utility industry (see
          Competition).  It also requested comments on a broad range of
          issues, including whether PUHCA should be repealed or some of its
          restrictions eliminated.  AEP filed comments indicating its
          belief that PUHCA is unnecessary and should be repealed.  If
          PUHCA is repealed or amended to remove some restrictions,
          registered holding company systems, including the AEP System,<PAGE>
          will be able to compete in the changing industry without the
          constraints of PUHCA.  Management of AEP believes that removal of
          these constraints would be beneficial to the AEP System.

            On December 28, 1994, the SEC also proposed revisions to its
          rules governing transactions between associated companies in a
          registered holding company system.  PUHCA and the rules and
          orders of the SEC currently require that these transactions be
          performed at cost with limited exceptions.  Over the years, the
          AEP System has developed numerous affiliated service, sales and
          construction relationships and, in some cases, invested
          significant capital and developed significant operations in
          reliance upon the ability to recover its full costs under these
          provisions.

            These proposed revisions to the rules would price transactions
          governed by SEC rules at a market-based price if it is lower than
          cost.  Because prices charged in most AEP intra-system
          transactions are governed by SEC orders relating specifically to
          such transactions, not general SEC rules, the proposed revisions
          would not apply to them.  However, the SEC could modify or amend
          the orders governing AEP intra-system transactions.  In addition,
          proposals have been made for Congress to repeal PUHCA or modify
          its provisions governing intra-system transactions.  The effect
          of possible SEC revisions of these cost provisions or the repeal
          or amendment of PUHCA on AEP's intra-system transactions depends
          on whether the assurance of full cost recovery is eliminated
          immediately or phased-in and whether it is eliminated for all
          intra-system transactions or only some.  If the cost recovery
          assurance is eliminated immediately for all intra-system
          transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on results
          of operations and financial condition of AEP and OPCo.

             Conflict of Regulation

            Public utility subsidiaries of AEP can be subject to
          regulation of the same subject matter by two or more
          jurisdictions.  In such situations, it is possible that the
          decisions of such regulatory bodies may conflict or that the
          decision of one such body may affect the cost of providing
          service and so the rates in another jurisdiction.  In a recent
          case involving OPCo, the U.S. Court of  Appeals for the District
          of Columbia held that the determination of costs to be charged to
          associated companies by the SEC under PUHCA precluded the FERC
          from determining that such costs were unreasonable for ratemaking
          purposes.  The U.S. Supreme Court also has held that a state
          commission may not conclude that a FERC approved wholesale power
          agreement is unreasonable for state ratemaking purposes.  Certain
          actions that would overturn these decisions or otherwise affect
          the jurisdiction of the SEC and FERC are under consideration by
          the U.S. Congress and these regulatory bodies.  Such conflicts of
          jurisdiction often result in litigation and if resolved adversely
          to a public utility subsidiary of AEP could have a material
          adverse effect on the results of operations or financial
          condition of such subsidiary or AEP.

          CLASSES OF SERVICE

            The principal classes of service from which the major electric
          utility subsidiaries of AEP derive revenues and the amount of
          such revenues (from kilowatt-hour sales) during the year ended
          December 31, 1994 are as follows:
          
                                   ---------------
            AEP Generating Company, Columbus Southern Power Company and
          Kentucky Power Company meet the conditions set forth in General
          Instruction J(1)(a) and (b) of Form 10-K and are therefore filing
          this Form 10-K with the reduced disclosure format specified in
          General Instruction J(2) to such Form 10-K.
                                   ---------------
            Indicate by check mark whether the registrants (1) have filed
          all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
          Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
          (or for such shorter period that the registrants were required to
          file such reports), and (2) have been subject to such filing
          requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X .  No  X .
                                                  ---       ---
          

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

          
            Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
          pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ((S)229.405 of this
          chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
          the best of registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or
          information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
          this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  X
                                                             ----
          

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:

          

          

             NOTE ON MARKET VALUE OF VOTING STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES

            All of the common stock of AEP Generating Company, Appalachian
          Power Company, Columbus Southern Power Company, Indiana Michigan
          Power Company, Kentucky Power Company and Ohio Power Company is
          owned by American Electric Power Company, Inc. (see Item 12
          herein).  The voting stock owned by non-affiliates of (i)
          Appalachian Power Company consists of 553,848 shares of
          Cumulative Preferred Stock, no par value; and (ii) Ohio Power
          Company consists of 1,712,403 shares of Cumulative Preferred
          Stock, $100 par value. Some of the series of Cumulative Preferred
          Stock are not regularly traded.  The aggregate market value of
          the Cumulative Preferred Stock is based on the average of the
          high and low prices on the closest trading date to February 3,
          1995 for series traded on the New York or Philadelphia Stock
          Exchange, or the most recent reported bid prices for those series
          not recently traded.  Where recent market price information was
          not available with respect to a series, the market price for such
          series is based on the price of a recently traded series with an
          adjustment related to any difference in the current yields of the
          two series.
          
                         DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

          

                                   ---------------

            THIS COMBINED FORM 10-K IS SEPARATELY FILED BY AEP GENERATING
          COMPANY, AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC., APPALACHIAN POWER
          COMPANY, COLUMBUS SOUTHERN POWER COMPANY, INDIANA MICHIGAN POWER
          COMPANY, KENTUCKY POWER COMPANY AND OHIO POWER COMPANY. 
          INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN RELATING TO ANY INDIVIDUAL
          REGISTRANT IS FILED BY SUCH REGISTRANT ON ITS OWN BEHALF.  EXCEPT
          FOR AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER COMPANY, INC., EACH REGISTRANT MAKES
          NO REPRESENTATION AS TO INFORMATION RELATING TO THE OTHER
          REGISTRANTS.
          ________________________________________________________________
          ----------------------------------------------------------------
          
          

                 AEP SYSTEM POWER POOL AND OFF-SYSTEM POWER SALES

            AEP's electric utility subsidiaries operate their generating
          plants and transmission lines as a single interconnected and
          coordinated electric utility system.  APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and
          OPCo are parties to the Interconnection Agreement, dated July 6,
          1951, as amended (the Interconnection Agreement), defining how
          they share the costs and benefits associated with the System's
          generating plants. This sharing is based upon each company's
          "member-load-ratio," which is calculated monthly on the basis of
          each company's maximum peak demand in relation to the sum of the
          maximum peak demands of all five companies during the preceding
          12 months.

            The following table shows the net credits or (charges)
          allocated among the parties under the Interconnection Agreement
          during the years ended December 31, 1992, 1993 and 1994:

          

            In July 1994, APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo entered into
          the AEP System Interim Allowance Agreement (IAA).  Reference is
          made to Environmental and Other Matters -- Clean Air Act
          Amendments of 1990 for a discussion of emission allowances.  The
          IAA provides for and governs the terms of the following allowance
          transactions among the parties beginning January 1, 1995:  (1) an
          annual reallocation of certain allowances initially allocated by
          the Federal EPA to OPCo's Gavin Plant; (2) transfer of allowances
          associated with energy transactions among the members of the AEP
          Power Pool; (3) a monthly cash settlement for allowances consumed
          in connection with power sales to non-affiliated electric
          utilities; and (4) transfers of allowances for current and future
          period compliance.  The IAA does not provide for the allocation
          of costs and proceeds related to the sale or purchase of
          allowances to or from non-affiliated companies.  The IAA was
          accepted by the FERC on December 30, 1994.

            AEGCo, APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo also sell electric
          power on a wholesale basis to non-affiliated electric utilities. 
          Such sales are either made by the AEP System and then allocated
          among APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo based on member-load-
          ratios or made by individual companies pursuant to various long-
          term power agreements.  The following table shows the amounts
          contributed to operating income of the various companies from
          such sales during the years ended December 31, 1992, 1993 and
          1994:

          
          ---------------
          (a)  Such sales do not include wholesale sales to full/partial
               requirement customers of AEP System companies.  See the
               discussion below.
          (b)  All amounts for AEGCo are from sales made pursuant to a
               long-term power agreement.  See AEGCo -- Unit Power
               Agreements.
          (c)  All amounts, except for I&M, are from System sales which are
               allocated among APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo based upon
               member-load-ratio.  All System sales made in 1992, 1993 and
               1994 were made on a short-term basis, except that
               $11,500,000, $16,800,000 and $21,800,000, respectively, of
               the contribution to operating income for the total System
               were from long-term System sales.
          (d)  In addition to its allocation of System sales, the 1992,
               1993 and 1994 amounts for I&M include $20,800,000,
               $21,600,000 and $21,600,000 from a long-term agreement to
               sell 250 megawatts of power scheduled to terminate in 2009.

            The AEP System has long-term system agreements to sell 100
          megawatts of electric power through 1997 and to sell at times up
          to 200 megawatts of peaking power through March 1997 to
          unaffiliated utilities.  In addition, commencing January 1996,
          the AEP System will be supplying 205 megawatts of electric power
          to an unaffiliated utility for 15 years.  The AEP System
          continues to seek appropriate long-term wholesale power
          agreements and will sell available power on a short-term basis. 
          The future results of operations of AEP and its operating
          companies will be affected by their ability to make cost-
          effective wholesale sales or, if such sales are reduced, their
          ability to timely raise retail rates.

            In addition to System sales, APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo
          serve wholesale customers that are full/partial requirement
          customers.  The aggregate maximum demand for these customers in
          1994 was 485, 83, 420, 17 and 125 megawatts for APCo, CSPCo, I&M,
          KEPCo and OPCo, respectively.  Although the terms of the
          contracts with these customers vary, they generally can be
          terminated by the customer upon one to four years' notice.

            In June 1993, certain municipal customers of APCo filed an
          application with the FERC for transmission service in order to
          reduce by 50 megawatts the power these customers purchase under
          existing 10-year Electric Service Agreements (ESAs) and purchase
          power from a third party.  APCo maintains that its agreements
          with these customers are full-requirements contracts which
          preclude the customers from purchasing power from third parties. 
          On December 1, 1993, the administrative law judge issued an
          initial decision that the ESAs are not full requirements
          contracts and that the ESAs give these municipal wholesale
          customers the option of substituting alternative sources of power
          for energy purchased from APCo.  On February 10, 1994, the FERC
          issued an order affirming, in part, the administrative law
          judge's initial decision.  On May 24, 1994, APCo appealed the
          February 10, 1994 order of the FERC to the U.S. Court of Appeals
          for the District of Columbia Circuit.  On July 1, 1994, the FERC
          ordered the requested transmission service and granted a
          complaint filed by the municipal customers directing certain
          modifications to the ESAs in order to accommodate their power
          purchases from the third party.  On August 1, 1994, AEP System
          companies filed petitions for rehearing of these FERC orders. 
          Effective August 1, 1994, these municipal customers reduced their
          purchases by 40 megawatts.  Certain of these customers also have
          notified APCo that they intend to reduce their purchases by an
          additional 21 megawatts effective February 1996.

          AEP SYSTEM TRANSMISSION POOL AND OFF-SYSTEM TRANSMISSION

            APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo are parties to the
          Transmission Agreement, dated April 1, 1984, as amended (the
          Transmission Agreement), defining how they share the costs
          associated with their relative ownership of the extra-high-
          voltage transmission system (facilities rated 345 kv and above)
          and certain facilities operated at lower voltages (138 kv and
          above).  Like the Interconnection Agreement, this sharing is
          based upon each company's "member-load-ratio."  See AEP System
          Power Pool and Off-System Power Sales.

            The following table shows the net credits or (charges)
          allocated among the parties to the Transmission Agreement during
          the years ended December 31, 1992, 1993 and 1994:

          

            APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo, OPCo and other System companies also
          provide transmission services for non-affiliated companies.  The
          following table shows the amounts contributed to operating income
          of the various companies from such services during the years
          ended December 31, 1992, 1993 and 1994:

          

            The Energy Policy Act of 1992 amended the Federal Power Act to
          authorize the FERC under certain conditions to order utilities
          which own transmission  facilities to provide wholesale
          transmission services for other utilities and entities generating
          electric power.  Effective August 1, 1994 and under a FERC order,
          the AEP System began to provide transmission services for 40
          megawatts of power delivered to certain municipal customers of
          APCo as discussed above under AEP System Power Pool and Off-
          System Power Sales.

            FERC Transmission Access Filing:  On April 12, 1993, APCo,
          CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo and two other AEP System companies
          filed a transmission tariff with the FERC under which these AEP
          System companies would provide limited transmission service to
          any "eligible utility."  The tariff covers the terms and
          conditions of the service, as well as the price which "eligible
          utilities" pay to wheel power on the AEP transmission system,
          regardless of the source of electric power generation.  On
          September 3, 1993, the FERC issued an order accepting the
          transmission service tariff for filing, with the tariff becoming
          effective on September 7, 1993, subject to refund.  On May 11,
          1994, the FERC issued an order on rehearing and indicated that an
          open access tariff should offer third parties access to the
          transmission system on the same or comparable basis, and under
          the same or comparable terms and conditions, as the transmission
          provider's access to its system.

            On August 26, 1994, AEP System companies submitted to the FERC
          their comparability filing supplementing the April 12 filing,
          following the guidelines stated in the May 11 FERC ruling.  They
          indicated their willingness to offer network transmission service
          under terms and conditions comparable to those enjoyed by members
          of the AEP System.  Network users could import and export power
          through the network, with power deliveries occurring without
          separate arrangements for each transmission delivery point. 
          Network users would participate in transmission planning and
          share transmission costs proportionately.  In addition, the
          supplemental filing would expand the availability of point-to-
          point transmission service, including permitting such services to
          be offered at a discounted rate on an hourly, nondiscriminatory
          basis.  A FERC hearing began in February 1995 and was recessed
          until April 24, 1995 for settlement discussions.

          OVEC

            AEP, CSPCo and several unaffiliated utility companies jointly
          own OVEC, which supplies the power requirements of a uranium
          enrichment plant near Portsmouth, Ohio owned by the DOE.  The
          aggregate equity participation of AEP and CSPCo in OVEC is 44.2%. 
          The DOE demand under OVEC's power agreement, which is subject to
          change from time to time, is 1,878,000 kilowatts and is scheduled
          to remain at about that level through the remaining term of the
          contract.  The proceeds from the sale of power by OVEC,
          aggregating $308,000,000 in 1994, are designed to be sufficient
          for OVEC to meet its operating expenses and fixed costs and to
          provide a return on its equity capital.  APCo, CSPCo, I&M and
          OPCo, as sponsoring companies, are entitled to receive from OVEC,
          and are obligated to pay for, the power not required by DOE in
          proportion to their power  participation ratios, which averaged
          42.1% in 1994.  The power agreement with DOE terminates on
          December 31, 2005, subject to early termination by DOE on not
          less than three years notice.  The power agreement among OVEC and
          the sponsoring companies expires by its terms on March 12, 2006.

          BUCKEYE

            Contractual arrangements among OPCo, Buckeye and other
          investor-owned electric utility companies in Ohio provide for the
          transmission and delivery, over facilities of OPCo and of other
          investor-owned utility companies, of power generated by the two
          units at the Cardinal Station owned by Buckeye and back-up power
          to which Buckeye is entitled from OPCo under such contractual
          arrangements, to facilities owned by 27 of the rural electric
          cooperatives which operate in the State of Ohio at 299 delivery
          points.  Buckeye is entitled under such arrangements to receive,
          and is obligated to pay for, the excess of its maximum one-hour
          coincident peak demand plus a 15% reserve margin over the
          1,226,500 kilowatts of capacity of the generating units which
          Buckeye currently owns in the Cardinal Station.  Such demand,
          which occurred on January 18, 1994, was recorded at 1,146,933
          kilowatts.

          CERTAIN INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMERS

            Ravenswood Aluminum Corporation and Ormet Corporation operate
          major aluminum reduction plants in the Ohio River Valley at
          Ravenswood, West Virginia, and in the vicinity of Hannibal, Ohio,
          respectively.  OPCo supplies all of the power requirements of
          these plants pursuant to long-term contracts with such companies
          which, subject to certain curtailment provisions, terminate in
          1997 in the case of Ormet and 1998 in the case of Ravenswood. 
          The power requirements of such plants presently aggregate
          approximately 880,000 kilowatts.  OPCo is currently negotiating
          with Ormet and Ravenswood regarding the extension of their
          contracts.  See Legal Proceedings for a discussion of litigation
          involving Ormet.
          AEGCO

            Since its formation, AEGCo's business has consisted of the
          ownership and financing of its 50% interest in the Rockport Plant
          and, more recently, leasing of its 50% interest in Unit 2 of the
          Rockport Plant.  The operating revenues of AEGCo are derived from
          the sale of capacity and energy associated with its interest in
          the Rockport Plant to I&M, KEPCo and VEPCo, pursuant to unit
          power agreements.  Pursuant to these unit power agreements, AEGCo
          is entitled to  recover its full cost of service from the
          purchasers and will be entitled to recover future increases in
          such costs, including increases in fuel and capital costs.  See
          Unit Power Agreements.  Pursuant to a capital funds agreement,
          AEP has agreed to provide cash capital contributions, or in
          certain circumstances subordinated loans, to AEGCo, to the extent
          necessary to enable AEGCo, among other things, to provide its
          proportionate share of funds required to permit continuation of
          the commercial operation of the Rockport Plant and to perform all
          of its obligations, covenants and agreements under, among other
          things, all loan agreements, leases and related documents to
          which AEGCo is or becomes a party. See Capital Funds Agreement.

             Unit Power Agreements

            A unit power agreement between AEGCo and I&M (the I&M Power
          Agreement) provides for the sale by AEGCo to I&M of all the power
          (and the energy associated therewith) available to AEGCo at the
          Rockport Plant.  I&M is obligated, whether or not power is
          available from AEGCo, to pay as a demand charge for the right to
          receive such power (and as an energy charge for any associated
          energy taken by I&M) such amounts, as when added to amounts
          received by AEGCo from any other sources, will be at least
          sufficient to enable AEGCo to pay all its operating and other
          expenses, including a rate of return on the common equity of
          AEGCo as approved by FERC, currently 12.16%.  The I&M Power
          Agreement will continue in effect until the date that the last of
          the lease terms of Unit 2 of the Rockport Plant has expired
          unless extended in specified circumstances.

            Pursuant to an assignment between I&M and KEPCo, and a unit
          power agreement between KEPCo and AEGCo, AEGCo sells KEPCo 30% of
          the power (and the energy associated therewith) available to
          AEGCo from both units of the Rockport Plant.  KEPCo has agreed to
          pay to AEGCo in consideration for the right to receive such power
          the same amounts which I&M would have paid AEGCo under the terms
          of the I&M Power Agreement for such entitlement.  The KEPCo unit
          power agreement expires on December 31, 1999, unless extended.

            A unit power agreement among AEGCo, I&M, VEPCo, and APCo
          provides for, among other things, the sale of 70% of the power
          and energy available to AEGCo from Unit 1 of the Rockport Plant
          to VEPCo by AEGCo from January 1, 1987 through December 31, 1999. 
          VEPCo has agreed to pay to AEGCo in consideration for the right
          to receive such power those amounts which I&M would have paid
          AEGCo under the terms of the I&M Power Agreement for such
          entitlement.  Approximately 36% of AEGCo's operating revenue in
          1994 was derived from its sales to VEPCo.

            Capital Funds Agreement

            AEGCo and AEP have entered into a capital funds agreement
          pursuant to which, among other things, AEP has unconditionally
          agreed to make cash capital contributions, or in certain
          circumstances subordinated loans, to AEGCo to the extent
          necessary to enable AEGCo to (i) maintain such an equity
          component of capitalization as required by governmental
          regulatory authorities, (ii) provide its proportionate share of
          the funds required to permit commercial operation of the Rockport
          Plant, (iii) enable AEGCo to perform all of its obligations,
          covenants and agreements under, among other things, all loan
          agreements, leases and related documents to which AEGCo is or
          becomes a party (AEGCo Agreements), and (iv) pay all
          indebtedness, obligations and liabilities of AEGCo (AEGCo
          Obligations) under the AEGCo Agreements, other than indebtedness,
          obligations or liabilities owing to AEP.  The Capital Funds
          Agreement will terminate after all AEGCo Obligations have been
          paid in full.

          INDUSTRY PROBLEMS

            The electric utility industry, including the operating
          subsidiaries of AEP, has encountered at various times in the last
          15 years significant problems in a number of areas, including: 
          delays in and limitations on the recovery of fuel costs from
          customers; proposed legislation, initiative measures and other
          actions designed to prohibit construction and operation of
          certain types of power plants under certain conditions and to
          eliminate or reduce the extent of the coverage of fuel adjustment
          clauses; inadequate rate increases and delays in obtaining rate
          increases; jurisdictional disputes with state public utilities
          commissions regarding the interstate operations of integrated
          electric systems; requirements for additional expenditures for
          pollution control facilities; increased capital and operating
          costs; construction delays due, among other factors, to pollution
          control and environmental considerations and to material,
          equipment and fuel shortages; the economic effects on net income
          (which when combined with other factors may be immediate and
          adverse) associated with placing large generating units and
          related facilities in commercial operation, including the
          commencement at that time of substantial charges for
          depreciation, taxes, maintenance and other operating expenses,
          and the cessation of AFUDC with respect to such units;
          uncertainties as to conservation efforts by customers and the
          effects of such efforts on load growth; depressed economic
          conditions in certain regions of the United States; increasingly
          competitive conditions in the wholesale and retail markets;
          proposals to deregulate certain portions of the industry, revise
          the rules and responsibilities under which new generating
          capacity is supplied and open access to an electric utility's
          transmission system; and substantial increases in construction
          costs and difficulties in financing due to high costs of capital,
          uncertain capital markets, charter and indenture limitations
          restricting conventional financing, and shortages of cash for
          construction and other purposes.

          SEASONALITY

            Sales of electricity by the AEP System tend to increase and
          decrease because of the use of electricity by residential and
          commercial customers for cooling and heating and relative changes
          in temperature.

          FRANCHISES

            The operating companies of the AEP System hold franchises to
          provide electric service in various municipalities in their
          service areas.  These franchises have varying provisions and
          expiration dates.  In general, the operating companies consider
          their franchises to be adequate for the conduct of their
          business.

          COMPETITION

             Retail

            The public utility subsidiaries of AEP generally have the
          exclusive right to sell electric power at retail within their
          service areas.  However, they do compete with self-generation and
          with distributors of alternative sources of energy, such as
          natural gas, fuel oil and coal, within their service areas.  The
          primary factors in such competition are price, reliability of
          service and the capacity of customers to utilize sources of
          energy other than electric power.  With respect to self-
          generation, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP believe that
          they maintain a favorable competitive position on the basis of
          all of these factors. With respect to alternative sources of
          energy, the public utility subsidiaries of AEP believe that the
          reliability of their service and the limited ability of customers
          to substitute other cost-effective sources for electric power
          place them in a favorable competitive position, even though their
          prices may be higher than the costs of some alternative sources
          of energy.

            Significant changes in the global economy in recent years have
          led to increased price competition for industrial companies in
          the United States, including those served by the AEP System. 
          Such industrial companies have requested price reductions from
          their suppliers, including their suppliers of electric power.  In
          addition, industrial companies which are downsizing or
          reorganizing often close a facility based upon its costs, which
          may include, among other things, the cost of electric power.  The
          public utility subsidiaries of AEP cooperate with such customers
          to meet their business needs through, for example, various off-
          peak or interruptible supply options and believe that, as low
          cost suppliers of electric power, they should be less likely to
          be materially adversely affected by this competition and may be
          benefitted by attracting new industrial customers to their
          service territories.

            The legislatures and/or the regulatory commissions in several
          states have considered or are considering "retail wheeling"
          which, in general terms, means the transmission by an electric
          utility of energy produced by another entity over its
          transmission and distribution system to a retail customer in such
          utility's service territory.  A requirement to transmit directly
          to retail customers would have the result of permitting retail
          customers to purchase electric power, at the election of such
          customers, not only from the electric utility in whose service
          area they are located but from any other electric utility or
          independent power producer.

            The MPSC began a proceeding on September 11, 1992 to
          investigate a proposal by certain industrial companies for an
          experiment in retail wheeling in certain service territories in
          Michigan, not including those of I&M.  On April 11, 1994, the
          MPSC approved an experimental five-year retail wheeling program
          and ordered Consumers Power Company and Detroit Edison Company,
          unaffiliated utilities, to make transmission services available
          to a group of industrial customers, to be limited to 60 megawatts
          and 90 megawatts, respectively, of retail delivery capacity.  The
          MPSC remanded to the administrative law judge the issue of
          determining appropriate rates and charges for retail delivery
          service.  The experiment seeks, as its goal, to determine whether
          a retail wheeling program best serves the public interest in a
          manner that promotes retail competition in a non-discriminatory
          fashion.  During the experiment, the MPSC will collect
          information regarding the effects of retail wheeling.  In August
          1994, Detroit Edison filed a declaratory judgment complaint in
          the U.S. District Court, Western District of Michigan,
          challenging the jurisdiction of the MPSC to order retail
          wheeling.

            On April 15, 1994, the Ohio Energy Strategy Task Force
          released its final report.  The report contains seven broad
          implementation strategies along with 53 specific initiatives to
          be undertaken by government and the private sector.  One strategy
          recommends continuing to encourage competition in the electric
          utility industry in a manner which maximizes benefits and
          efficiencies for all customers.  An initiative under this
          strategy recommends facilitating informal roundtable discussions
          on issues concerning competition in the electric utility industry
          and promoting increased competitive options for Ohio businesses
          that do not unduly harm the interests of utility company
          shareholders or ratepayers.  The PUCO has begun such discussions. 
          In addition, a retail wheeling bill was introduced in the Ohio
          House of Representatives in February 1994.

            Because adoption of retail wheeling would require resolution
          of complex issues, such as who would pay for the unused
          generating plant of the utility wheeling such power, it is not
          clear what effects will flow from its adoption in any state.
          However, if retail wheeling is adopted, the public utility
          subsidiaries of AEP believe that they have a favorable
          competitive position because of their relatively low costs.

             Wholesale

            The public utility subsidiaries of AEP, like the electric
          industry generally, face increasing competition to sell available
          power on a wholesale basis, primarily to other public utilities. 
          The Energy Policy Act of 1992 was designed, among other things,
          to foster competition in the wholesale market (a) through
          amendments to PUHCA, facilitating the ownership and operation of
          generating facilities by "exempt wholesale generators" (which may
          include independent power producers as well as affiliates of
          electric utilities) and (b) through amendments to the Federal
          Power Act, authorizing the FERC under certain conditions to order
          utilities which own transmission facilities to provide wholesale
          transmission services for other utilities and entities generating
          electric power.  The principal factors in competing for such
          sales are price (including fuel costs), availability of capacity
          and reliability of service.  The public utility subsidiaries of
          AEP believe that they maintain a favorable competitive position
          on the basis of all of these factors.  However, because of the
          availability of capacity of other utilities and the lower fuel
          prices in recent years, price competition has been, and is
          expected for the next few years to be, particularly important. 
          Upon resolution of the issues regarding the transmission access
          filing before the FERC (discussed under AEP System Transmission
          Pool and Off-System Transmission), the public utility
          subsidiaries of AEP expect to be able to satisfy FERC criteria to
          obtain approval to sell wholesale power at market rates.
            On June 29, 1994, the FERC issued a proposed rulemaking to
          provide the regulatory framework for dealing with utility assets
          that are stranded as a result of the transition to a competitive
          electric industry.  Stranded costs are those costs incurred by a
          utility when a customer stops buying power from the utility and,
          instead, purchases transmission services from that utility to
          obtain power purchased from another supplier.  If stranded costs
          are not recovered from customers, the AEP System, like all
          electric utilities, will be required by existing accounting
          standards to recognize stranded investment losses.  The write-off
          of such stranded investment, which could include regulatory
          assets, would materially adversely affect results of operations
          and financial condition.


             New Generation

            When the AEP System needs new generation, the public utility
          subsidiaries of AEP which wish to provide it may have to compete
          with exempt wholesale generators, independent power producers and
          other utilities.  Although the specific guidelines for such
          competition have not yet been developed and may vary from
          jurisdiction to jurisdiction (see the discussion below),
          significant factors will include price and reliability.  AEP and
          its subsidiaries believe that they can be competitive as to both
          of these factors.  However, no additional generating capacity is
          expected to be needed by the AEP System until about the year
          2000.  See Construction and Financing Program.

            Indiana:  In August 1994, the IURC reissued a notice of
          proposed rulemaking for integrated resource planning guidelines,
          including consideration of resource bidding and independent power
          producers, and for demand-side management.

            Michigan:  The MPSC has adopted guidelines governing the
          acquisition of new capacity by large Michigan electric utilities. 
          The guidelines do not apply to I&M.

            Ohio:  On December 17, 1992, the PUCO issued an order
          proposing rules for competitive bidding for new generating
          capacity, including transmission access for winning bidders.  The
          proposed rules would establish a rebuttable presumption of
          prudence where new generating capacity is acquired through 
          competitive bidding and provide other incentives to use
          competitive bidding.  The proposed rules also contain procedures
          to ensure that bidders for a utility's new capacity will have
          open access to certain transmission facilities and prohibit the
          utility acquiring new capacity from withholding Clean Air Act
          emission allowances from potential bidders.  CSPCo and OPCo filed
          comments on the proposed rules generally supporting promulgation
          of rules governing competitive bidding but stating that the rules
          should not address access to transmission facilities or emission
          allowances, because existing federal laws address such concerns.

            Virginia:  The Virginia SCC has adopted minimum requirements
          for any electric utility that elects to acquire new generation
          through a bidding program.  An electric utility is not required
          to use the bidding process and may participate in the bidding
          process.

            West Virginia:  On October 8, 1993, the West Virginia PSC
          issued an order proposing rules that generally require electric
          utilities to procure competitively all new sources of generation. 
          APCo and Wheeling Power Company filed comments stating that the
          rules should not require competitive bidding and should permit
          the utility to participate in the bidding process.

             Possible Strategic Responses

            In response to the competitive forces and regulatory changes
          being faced by AEP and its public utility subsidiaries, as
          discussed under this heading and under Regulation, AEP and its
          public utility subsidiaries have from time to time considered,
          and expect to continue to consider, various strategies designed
          to enhance their competitive position and to increase their
          ability to adapt to and anticipate changes in their utility
          business.  These strategies may include business combinations
          with other companies, internal restructurings involving the
          complete or partial separation of their wholesale and retail
          businesses, acquisitions of related or unrelated businesses, and
          additions to or dispositions of portions of their franchised
          service territories.  AEP and its public utility subsidiaries may
          from time to time be engaged in preliminary discussions, either
          internally or with third parties, regarding one or more of these
          potential strategies.  No assurances can be given as to whether
          any potential transaction of the type described above may
          actually occur, or as to its ultimate effect on the financial
          condition or competitive position of AEP and its public utility
          subsidiaries.

          NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

            AEP continues to consider new business opportunities,
          particularly those which allow use of its expertise.  These
          endeavors began in 1982 and are conducted through AEP Energy
          Services, Inc. (AEPES) and AEP Resources, Inc. (Resources).

            Resources' primary business is development of, and investment
          in, exempt wholesale generators, foreign utility companies,
          qualifying cogeneration facilities and other power projects. 
          Resources currently does not have an interest in any power
          projects.  Resources, however, is involved in preliminary
          development of some projects, has submitted jointly with a non-
          affiliate a bid to provide power through an exempt wholesale
          generator, and has entered into a letter of intent which may
          result in the development of two 1,300-megawatt generating
          stations in China.  In addition, AEP and Resources have received
          approval from the SEC under PUHCA to finance up to $300,000,000
          for investment in exempt wholesale generators and foreign utility
          companies.

            AEPES offers consulting services using AEP System expertise
          both domestically and internationally.  AEPES contracts with
          other public utilities, commercial concerns and government
          agencies for the rendition of services and the licensing of
          intellectual property.

            These continuing efforts to invest in and develop new business
          opportunities offer the potential of earning returns which may
          exceed those of rate-regulated operations. However, they also
          involve a higher degree of risk which must be carefully
          considered and assessed.  AEP may make substantial investments in
          these and other new businesses.

          CONSTRUCTION AND FINANCING PROGRAM
            The AEP System companies are engaged in a continuing
          construction program, involving assessment of needs, selection of
          sites, design and acquisition of equipment, and installation of
          the generating, transmission, distribution and other facilities
          necessary to provide for growing demands for electric service. 
          At the present time, there are no specific commitments for new
          capacity additions on the AEP System.  Size, technology, type,
          ownership (among AEP operating companies), means of acquisition
          and precise timing of future capacity additions on the AEP System
          have not yet been determined.  However, AEP's current resource
          plan indicates no need for new generation until about the year
          2000.  Initial future capacity additions will most likely be
          short lead time, simple-cycle, gas-fired combustion turbines. 
          The current resource plan indicates no need for new coal-fired
          baseload generation until sometime after the year 2005.  The size
          of any new coal-fired generation will most likely be
          significantly smaller than the 1,300-megawatt units recently
          added to the AEP System, to better match projected load growth. 
          From time to time, as the System companies have encountered the
          industry problems described above, such companies also have
          encountered limitations on their ability to secure the capital
          necessary to finance construction expenditures.

            The System construction program is reviewed continuously and
          is revised from time to time in response to changes in estimates
          of customer demand, business and economic conditions, the cost
          and availability of capital, environmental requirements and other
          factors.  The extent and timing of construction expenditures and
          the nature of future financing activities may be dependent on,
          among other things, the timing and amount of additional rate
          relief received.  See Competition -- New Generation and Rates.

             PFBC Projects

            Tidd Plant:  In November 1990, OPCo began operating a 70,000-
          kilowatt PFBC demonstration plant at the deactivated Tidd Plant
          on the Ohio River at Brilliant, Ohio.  The Tidd Plant was built
          and operated to demonstrate that the combined-cycle PFBC
          technology is a cost-effective, reliable, and environmentally
          superior alternative to conventional coal-fired electric power
          generation with a flue-gas desulfurization system.  Through
          December 31, 1994, the Tidd Plant achieved 10,297 hours of coal-
          fired operation while demonstrating the viability of the PFBC
          process in the reduction of targeted sulfur dioxide and nitrogen
          oxide emissions.  See Environmental and Other Matters for
          information regarding restrictions on sulfur dioxide and nitrogen
          oxide emissions from coal-fired power plants in the AEP System. 
          The Tidd Plant operated for a four-year period, which is expected
          to conclude not later than March 31, 1995.  The plant is planned
          to be deactivated at the conclusion of the test program.

            Total Tidd Plant construction costs (including PFBC
          development costs) and total Tidd operating costs incurred
          through December 31, 1994 were $182,489,000 and $36,497,000,
          respectively.  At such date, OPCo had received funding from DOE
          and the State of Ohio in the aggregate amounts of $65,232,000 and
          $11,336,000, respectively, and had recovered $125,543,000 from
          its retail customers.

            PFBC Utility Demonstration Project:  DOE is cost sharing with
          APCo development of a 340,000-kilowatt commercial-size PFBC plant
          adjacent to APCo's Mountaineer Plant in New Haven, West Virginia. 
          DOE has agreed to continue funding the design of the plant
          through at least January 1996; however, the program can be
          terminated sooner with mutual consent of the parties.  The
          present four-year effort to refine the PFBC design extends
          through January 1996.  The ultimate decision to proceed with the
          construction of the commercial PFBC plant will hinge on the
          confirmation of the need for new coal-fired baseload capacity,
          the readiness of PFBC technology, and other applicable market
          conditions.

             Construction Expenditures

            The following table shows the construction expenditures by
          AEGCo, APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo, OPCo and the AEP System and their
          respective consolidated subsidiaries during 1992, 1993 and 1994
          and their current estimate of 1995 construction expenditures, in
          each case including AFUDC but excluding nuclear fuel and other
          assets acquired under leases.  The construction expenditures for
          the years 1992-1994 were applied, and it is anticipated that the
          estimated construction expenditures for 1995 will be applied,
          approximately as follows to construction of the following classes
          of assets:

          
            ----------
            (a)  Excludes expenditures for PFBC Utility Demonstration
               Project.  See PFBC Projects.
          (b)  Includes expenditures for Tidd Plant.  See PFBC Projects.
          (c)  Excludes expenditures associated with flue-gas
               desulfurization system which was constructed by a non-
               affiliate at the Gavin Plant and is being leased by OPCo. 
               Actual expenditures for 1992, 1993 and 1994 and the current
               estimate for 1995 are $93,653,000, $256,673,000,
               $176,220,000 and $129,771,000, respectively.  See
               Environmental and Other Matters -- CAAA-AEP System
               Compliance Plan.
          (d)  Includes expenditures of other subsidiaries not shown.

            Reference is made to the footnotes to the financial statements
          entitled Commitments and Contingencies incorporated by reference
          in Item 8, for further information with respect to the
          construction plans of AEP and its operating subsidiaries for the
          next three years.  If the System receives adequate rate relief in
          future periods, and is able to finance additional construction
          expenditures, and if the loads which are served by the System
          increase above the levels currently projected, additional
          expenditures may be incurred in subsequent years in amounts which
          would be substantial but which cannot be accurately predicted at
          this time.

            Changes in construction schedules and costs, and in estimates
          and projections of needs for additional facilities, as well as
          variations from currently anticipated levels of net earnings,
          Federal income and other taxes, and other factors affecting cash
          requirements, may increase or decrease the estimates of capital
          requirements for the System's construction program.

            Proposed Transmission Facilities:  On March 23, 1990, APCo and
          VEPCo announced plans, subject to regulatory approval, for major
          new transmission facilities.  APCo will construct approximately
          115 miles of 765,000-volt line from APCo's Wyoming station in
          southern West Virginia to APCo's Cloverdale station near Roanoke,
          Virginia.  VEPCo will construct approximately 102 miles of
          500,000-volt line from APCo's Joshua Falls station east of
          Lynchburg, Virginia to VEPCo's Ladysmith station north of
          Richmond, Virginia.  The construction of the transmission lines
          and related station improvements will provide needed
          reinforcement for APCo's internal load, reinforce the ability to
          exchange electric energy between the two companies and relieve
          present constraints on the transmission of electric energy from
          potential independent power producers in the APCo service area to
          VEPCo.  APCo's cost is estimated at $245,000,000 while VEPCo's
          cost is estimated at $164,000,000.  Completion of the project is
          presently scheduled for 2000 but the actual service date will be
          dependent upon the time necessary to meet various regulatory
          requirements.

            Hearings before the Virginia SCC were concluded in September
          1993.  A report was issued by the hearing examiner in December
          1993 which recommended that the Virginia SCC grant APCo approval
          to construct the proposed 765,000-volt line.  A decision by the
          Virginia SCC is pending.

            APCo refiled with the West Virginia PSC in February 1993 its
          application for certification.  An application filed in June 1992
          was withdrawn at the request of the West Virginia PSC to permit
          additional time for review by the West Virginia PSC.  The West
          Virginia PSC rejected APCo's application for certification in May
          1993, directing APCo to supplement its line siting information. 
          APCo intends to refile its application with the West Virginia
          PSC.  Hearings are expected to be held in late 1995 or early
          1996, with a decision expected in 1996.

            The Jefferson National Forest (JNF) is directing the
          preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) which will
          be required prior to the granting of special use permits for
          crossing Federal lands.  The present schedule of the JNF calls
          for completion of the draft EIS in October 1995 and the final EIS
          in 1996.

            Environmental Expenditures:  Expenditures related to
          compliance with air and water quality standards, included in the
          gross additions to plant of the System, during 1992, 1993 and
          1994 and the current estimate for 1995 are shown below.
          Substantial expenditures in addition to the amounts set forth
          below may be required by the System in future years in connection
          with the modification and addition of facilities at generating
          plants for environmental quality controls in order to comply with
          air and water quality standards which may have been or may be
          adopted.

          
          ---------------
          (a)  Excludes expenditures for PFBC Utility Demonstration
               Project.  See PFBC Projects.
          (b)  Includes expenditures for Tidd Plant which have been or are
               expected to be funded through Federal/state grants and the
               fuel clause mechanism.  See PFBC Projects.
          (c)  Excludes expenditures associated with flue-gas
               desulfurization system which was constructed by a non-
               affiliate at the Gavin Plant and is being leased by OPCo. 
               Actual expenditures for 1992, 1993 and 1994 and the current
               estimate for 1995 are $93,653,000, $256,673,000,
               $176,220,000 and $129,771,000, respectively.  See
               Environmental and Other Matters -- CAAA-AEP System
               Compliance Plan.

             Financing

            It has been the practice of AEP's operating subsidiaries to
          finance current construction expenditures in excess of available
          internally generated funds by initially issuing unsecured short-
          term debt, principally commercial paper and bank loans, at times
          up to levels authorized by regulatory agencies, and then to
          reduce the short-term debt with the proceeds of subsequent sales
          by such subsidiaries of long-term debt securities and preferred
          stock, and cash capital contributions by AEP to the subsidiaries. 
          It has been the practice of AEP, in turn, to finance cash capital
          contributions to the common stock equities of the operating
          subsidiaries by issuing unsecured short-term debt, principally
          commercial paper, and then to sell additional shares of Common
          Stock of AEP for the purpose of retiring the short-term debt
          previously incurred.  In 1994, AEP issued 700,000 shares of
          Common Stock pursuant to its Dividend Reinvestment and Stock
          Purchase Plan.  Although prevailing interest costs of short-term
          bank debt and commercial paper generally have been lower than
          prevailing interest costs of long-term debt securities, whenever
          interest costs of short-term debt exceed costs of long-term debt,
          the companies might be adversely affected by reliance on the use
          of short-term debt to finance their construction and other
          capital requirements.

            During the period 1992-1994, external funds from financings
          and capital contributions by AEP amounted, with respect to APCo,
          CSPCo and KEPCo to approximately 37%, 1.6% and 37%, respectively,
          of the aggregate construction expenditures shown above.  During
          this same period, the amount of funds used to retire long-term
          and short-term debt and preferred stock of AEGCo, I&M and OPCo
          exceeded the amount of funds from financings and capital
          contributions by AEP.

            The ability of AEP and its operating subsidiaries to issue
          short-term debt is limited by regulatory restrictions and, in the
          case of most of the operating subsidiaries, by provisions
          contained in their charters and in certain debt and other
          instruments.  The approximate amounts of short-term debt which
          the companies estimate that they were permitted to issue under
          the most restrictive such restriction, at January 1, 1995, and
          the respective amounts of short-term debt outstanding on that
          date, on a corporate basis, are shown in the following
          tabulation:

          
            (a)  Includes short-term debt of other subsidiaries not shown.

            Reference is made to the footnotes to the financial statements
          incorporated by reference in Item 8 for further information with
          respect to unused short-term bank lines of credit.

            In order to issue additional long-term debt and preferred
          stock, it is necessary for APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo to
          comply with earnings coverage requirements contained in their
          respective mortgages, debenture indentures and charters.  The
          most restrictive of these provisions in each instance generally
          requires (1) for the issuance of additional long-term debt by
          APCo, I&M and OPCo, for purposes other than the refunding of
          outstanding long-term debt securities, a minimum, before income
          tax, earnings coverage of twice the pro forma annual interest
          charges on long-term debt, (2) for the issuance of first mortgage
          bonds by CSPCo and KEPCo for purposes other than the refunding of
          outstanding first mortgage bonds, a minimum, before income tax,
          earnings coverage of twice the pro forma annual interest charges
          on first mortgage bonds and (3) for the issuance of additional
          preferred stock by APCo, I&M and OPCo, a minimum, after income
          tax, gross income coverage of one and one-half times pro forma
          annual interest charges and preferred stock dividends, in each
          case for a period of twelve consecutive calendar months within
          the fifteen calendar months immediately preceding the proposed
          new issue.  In computing such coverages, the companies include as
          a component of earnings revenues collected subject to refund
          (where applicable) and, to the extent not limited by the
          instrument under which the computation is made, AFUDC, including
          amounts positioned and classified as an allowance for borrowed
          funds used during construction.  These coverage provisions have
          from time to time restricted the ability of one or more of the
          above subsidiaries of AEP to issue senior securities.

            The respective long-term debt and preferred stock coverages of
          APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo under their respective debenture
          indenture, mortgage and charter provisions, calculated on the
          foregoing basis and in accordance with the respective amounts
          then recorded in the accounts of the companies, assuming the
          respective short-term debt of the companies at those dates were
          to remain outstanding for a twelve-month period at the respective
          rates of interest prevailing at those dates, were at least those
          stated in the following table:

          

            Although certain other subsidiaries of AEP either are not
          subject to any coverage restrictions or are not subject to
          restrictions as constraining as those to which APCo, CSPCo, I&M,
          KEPCo and OPCo are subject, their ability to finance substantial
          portions of their construction programs may be subject to market
          limitations and other constraints unless other assurances are
          furnished.

            AEP believes that the ability of its operating subsidiaries to
          issue short- and long-term debt securities and preferred stock in
          the amounts required to finance their respective construction
          programs may depend upon the timely approval of rate increase
          applications.  If one or more of the operating subsidiaries are
          unable to continue the issuance and sale of securities on an
          orderly basis, such company or companies will be required to
          consider the use of alternative financing arrangements, if
          available, which may be more costly or the curtailment of
          construction and other outlays.

            AEP's subsidiaries have also utilized, and expect to continue
          to utilize, additional financing arrangements, such as leasing
          arrangements, including the leasing of utility assets, coal
          mining and transportation equipment and facilities and nuclear
          fuel.  Pollution control revenue bonds have been used in the past
          and may be used in the future in connection with the construction
          of pollution control facilities; however, Federal tax law has
          limited the utilization of this type of financing except for
          purposes of certain financing of solid waste disposal facilities
          and of certain refunding of outstanding pollution control revenue
          bonds issued before August 16, 1986.

            Shares of AEP Common Stock may be sold by AEP from time to
          time at prices below the then current book value per share and
          repurchased by AEP at prices above book value.  Such sales or
          purchases, if any, would have a dilutive effect on the book value
          of then outstanding shares but are not expected to have a
          material adverse effect on AEP's business including its future
          financing plans or capabilities and pending construction
          projects.

          CONSERVATION AND LOAD MANAGEMENT

            For some years, the AEP System has put in place a series of
          customer programs for encouraging electric conservation and load
          management (CLM).  The CLM programs also are referred to in the
          electric utility industry as "demand-side management" programs
          (DSM) since they affect the demand for electricity as opposed to
          electricity supply.  The AEP System utilizes integrated resource
          planning and has in place a detailed analysis procedure in which
          effective demand-side and supply-side options are both considered
          in order to determine the least cost approach to provide reliable
          electric service for its customers, taking into account
          environmental and other considerations.  Recovery of demand-side
          program expenditures through rates is being reviewed by AEP's
          respective regulatory commissions.

          RATES

             General

            In recent years the operating subsidiaries of AEP have filed a
          series of rate increase applications with their respective state
          commissions and the FERC and expect that they will continue to do
          so as competitive conditions permit, whenever necessary, as
          increases in operating, construction and capital costs exceed
          increases in revenues resulting from previously granted rate
          increases and increased customer demand.

            All of the seven states served by the AEP System, as well as
          the FERC, either permit the incorporation of fuel adjustment
          clauses in a utility company's rates and tariffs, which are
          designed to permit upward or downward adjustments in revenues to
          reflect increases or decreases in fuel costs above or below the
          designated base cost of fuel set forth in the particular rate or
          tariff, or permit the inclusion of specified levels of fuel costs
          as part of such rate or tariff.

            AEP cannot predict the timing or probability of approvals
          regarding applications for additional rate changes, the outcome
          of action by regulatory commissions or courts with respect to
          such matters, or the effect thereof on the earnings and business
          of the AEP System.

             APCo

            FERC:  On February 14, 1992, APCo filed with the FERC
          applications for an increase in its wholesale rates to Kingsport
          Power Company and non-affiliated customers in the amounts of
          approximately $3,933,000 and $4,759,000, respectively.  APCo
          began collecting the rate increases, subject to refund, on
          September 15, 1992.  In addition, the Financial Accounting
          Standards Board has issued Statement of Financial Accounting
          Standards No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
          Benefits Other Than Pensions (SFAS 106), which requires
          employers, beginning in 1993, to accrue for the costs of retiree
          benefits other than pensions.  These rates include the higher
          level of SFAS 106 costs.  On November 9, 1993, the administrative
          law judge issued an initial decision recommending, among other
          things, the higher level of postretirement benefits other than
          pensions under SFAS 106.  FERC action on APCo's applications is
          pending.

            Virginia:  On June 27, 1994, the Virginia SCC issued a final
          order granting APCo an increase in annual revenues of
          $17,900,000.  APCo had requested to increase its Virginia retail
          rates by $31,400,000 annually and, on May 4, 1993, implemented
          the rates, subject to refund, based on an interim order.  As a
          result of the final order, APCo made a revenue refund including
          interest to its Virginia customers in August 1994 of $15,800,000.

            As a result of certain significant fuel cost reductions, on
          November 15, 1994, APCo implemented a net decrease in rates
          charged to its Virginia retail customers of $13,200,000, subject
          to final approval by the Virginia SCC.  The net decrease
          consisted of a $28,900,000 decrease in the fuel component of its
          rates offset, in part, by an increase of $15,700,000 in base
          rates.  On December 19, 1994, the Virginia SCC issued an order
          approving the decrease in the fuel factor component of rates. 
          APCo proposes in the base rate proceeding to amortize Virginia
          deferred storm damage expenses of $23,900,000 related to two
          major ice storms in February and March 1994 over a three-year
          period, consistent with the amortization of previous storm damage
          expense deferrals approved in a 1992 rate case.  The ultimate
          recovery of the entire deferred storm damage costs is subject to
          Virginia SCC approval.  If not approved, results of operations
          could be adversely affected.  A hearing has been scheduled to
          begin in July 1995.

             CSPCo

            Zimmer Plant:  The Zimmer Plant was placed in commercial
          operation as a 1,300-megawatt coal-fired plant on March 30, 1991. 
          CSPCo owns 25.4% of the Zimmer Plant with the remainder owned by
          two unaffiliated companies, CG&E (46.5%) and DP&L (28.1%).

            Zimmer Plant -- Rate Recovery:  In May 1992, the PUCO issued
          an order providing for a phased-in rate increase of $123,000,000
          for the Zimmer Plant to be implemented in three steps over a two-
          year period and disallowed $165,000,000 of Zimmer Plant
          investment.  CSPCo appealed the PUCO ordered Zimmer disallowance
          and phase-in plan to the Ohio Supreme Court.  In November 1993,
          the Supreme Court issued a decision on CSPCo's appeal affirming
          the disallowance and finding that the PUCO did not have statutory
          authority to order phased-in rates.  The court instructed the
          PUCO to fix rates to provide gross annual revenue in accordance
          with the law and to provide a mechanism to recover the revenues
          deferred under the phase-in order.

            As a result of the ruling, 1993 net income was reduced by
          $144,500,000 after tax to reflect the disallowance and in January
          1994, the PUCO approved a 7.11% or $57,167,000 rate increase
          effective February 1, 1994.  The increase is comprised of a 3.72%
          base rate increase and a temporary 3.39% surcharge, which will be
          in effect until the phase-in plan deferrals are recovered,
          estimated to be 1998.  In 1994, $18,500,000 of net phase-in
          deferrals were collected through the surcharge which reduced the
          deferrals from $93,900,000 at December 31, 1993 to $75,400,000 at
          December 31, 1994.  In 1993 and 1992, $47,900,000 and
          $46,000,000, respectively, were deferred under the phase-in plan. 
          The recovery of amounts deferred under the phase-in plan and the
          increase in rates to the full rate level did not affect net
          income.

            From the in-service date of March 1991 until rates went into
          effect in May 1992, deferred carrying charges of $43,000,000 were
          recorded on the Zimmer Plant investment.  Recovery of the
          deferred carrying charges will be sought in the next PUCO base
          rate proceeding in accordance with the PUCO accounting order that
          authorized the deferral.

            Other Ohio Regulatory Matters:  Reference is made to
          Environmental and Other Matters -- Clean Air Act Amendments of
          1990 for a discussion of emission allowances.  On March 25, 1993,
          the PUCO issued its final guidelines concerning emission
          allowances.  The final guidelines state that the PUCO expects
          that Ohio utilities will take advantage of the allowance trading
          market, and encourages all trades that can be economically
          justified.  The final guidelines include the proposed guideline
          that gains or losses on transactions involving emission
          allowances created by rate base assets should generally flow
          through to ratepayers.  The final guidelines also provide that
          allowance plans, procedures, practices, trading activity, and
          associated costs should be reviewed annually in the electric fuel
          component since the cost of these allowances are part of the
          acquisition and delivery costs of fuel.

            Reference is made to the caption Environmental and Other
          Matters -- Clean Air Amendments of 1990 -- AEP System Compliance
          Plan for information regarding AEP's compliance plan which has
          been filed with the PUCO.

            On September 3, 1992, the PUCO began an investigation into
          incentive based ratemaking under Ohio's existing ratemaking
          statutes.  Joint comments were filed in November 1992 by CSPCo
          and OPCo.

             I&M

            FERC:  In October 1987, a wholesale customer filed a complaint
          with the FERC for a refund based on the reasonableness of coal
          costs pursuant to a seven-year contract, beginning in 1986, from
          an unaffiliated supplier who has leased a Utah mining operation
          from I&M.  In February 1993, the FERC dismissed the complaint. 
          The wholesale customer has appealed the FERC order to the U.S.
          Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.

             KEPCo

            FERC:  On October 28, 1993, KEPCo filed an application to
          begin serving the City of Vanceburg as a full requirements
          customer, effective January 1, 1994, which will yield annual
          revenues of $1,448,000.  On June 9, 1994, the FERC issued a
          letter order accepting for filing KEPCo's application.

            On July 24, 1992, the KPSC began an investigation into the
          feasibility of implementing demand-side management cost recovery
          and incentive mechanisms.  A Kentucky law enacted in April 1994
          provides the KPSC with authority to establish cost recovery
          mechanisms outside of base rate cases.  On July 14, 1994, the
          KPSC issued an order stating that Kentucky utilities should
          pursue cost-effective DSM.

             OPCo

            Reference is made to Rates -- CSPCo regarding generic
          proceedings by the PUCO relating to emission allowance trading
          and incentive-based ratemaking.

            In April 1991, the municipal wholesale customers of OPCo filed
          a complaint with the FERC seeking refunds back to 1982 for
          alleged overcharges for certain affiliated fuel costs.  The
          complaint contends that the price of coal from two of OPCo's
          affiliated mines violated the FERC's market price requirement for
          affiliate coal pricing.  In February 1993, the FERC issued an
          order dismissing the complaint and, in January 1995, the U.S.
          Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit affirmed the FERC's order,
          ending the matter.
            An application was filed by OPCo in July 1994 with the PUCO
          seeking a $152,500,000 annual base retail rate increase to
          recover, among other things, the costs associated with the Gavin
          Plant's flue gas desulfurization systems (scrubbers).  In
          February 1995, OPCo and certain other parties to the proceeding
          entered into a settlement agreement to resolve, among other
          issues, the pending base rate case and the current electric fuel
          component (EFC) proceeding.  On March 23, 1995, the PUCO issued
          an order approving the settlement agreement, with certain minor
          exceptions.  Under the terms of the settlement agreement,
          effective March 23, 1995, base rates increase by $66,000,000
          annually which includes recovery of the annual cost of the
          scrubbers; the EFC rate is fixed at 1.465 cents per kwh from June
          1, 1995 through November 30, 1998; OPCo is provided with the
          opportunity to recover its Ohio jurisdictional share of the
          investment in, and the liabilities and future shutdown costs of,
          all affiliated mines as well as any fuel costs incurred above the
          fixed rate; and OPCo may proceed with its Clean Air Act
          Amendments of 1990 compliance plan as filed with the PUCO
          (discussed under Environmental and Other Matters -- Clean Air Act
          Amendments of 1990 -- AEP System Compliance Plan).

            Based on a stipulation agreement approved by the PUCO in
          November 1992, beginning December 1, 1994, the cost of coal
          burned at the Gavin Plant is subject to a 15-year predetermined
          price of $1.575 per million Btus with quarterly escalation
          adjustments.  As discussed above, the PUCO-approved settlement
          agreement fixes the EFC factor at 1.465 cents per kwh for the
          period June 1995 through November 1998.  After November 2009, the
          price that OPCo can recover for coal from its affiliated Meigs
          mine which supplies the Gavin Plant will be limited to the lower
          of cost or the then-current market price.  The predetermined
          Gavin Plant price agreement, in conjunction with the above-
          referenced settlement agreement, provide OPCo with an opportunity
          to recover any operating losses incurred under the predetermined
          or fixed price, as well as its investment in, and liabilities and
          closing costs associated with, its affiliated mining operations
          attributable to its Ohio jurisdiction, to the extent the actual
          cost of coal burned at the Gavin Plant is below the predetermined
          price.

            Based on the estimated future cost of coal burned at Gavin
          Plant, management believes that the Ohio jurisdictional portion
          of the investment in, and liabilities and closing costs of, the
          affiliated mining operations will be recovered under the terms of
          the predetermined price agreement.

            In November 1992, the municipal wholesale customers of OPCo
          filed a complaint with the SEC requesting an investigation of the
          sale of the Martinka mining operation to an unaffiliated company
          and an investigation into the pricing of OPCo's affiliated coal
          purchases back to 1986.  OPCo has filed a response with the SEC
          seeking to dismiss this complaint.

          FUEL SUPPLY

            The following table shows the sources of power generated by
          the AEP System:


            Variations in the generation of nuclear power are primarily
          related to refueling outages and, in 1992, a forced outage at
          Cook Plant Unit 2.  See Cook Nuclear Plant.

             Coal

            The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 provide for the issuance
          of annual allowance allocations covering sulfur dioxide emissions
          at levels below historic emission levels for many coal-fired
          generating units of the AEP System.  Phase I of this program
          began in 1995 and Phase II begins in 2000, with both phases
          requiring significant changes in coal supplies and suppliers. 
          The full extent of such changes, particularly in regard to Phase
          II, however, has not been determined.  See Environmental and
          Other Matters -- Air Pollution Control -- CAAA-AEP System
          Compliance Plan for the current compliance plan.

            In order to meet emission standards for existing and new
          emission sources, the AEP System companies will, in any event,
          have to obtain coal supplies, in addition to coal reserves now
          owned by System companies, through the acquisition of additional
          coal reserves and/or by entering into additional supply
          agreements, either on a long-term or spot basis, at prices and
          upon terms which cannot now be predicted.

            No representation is made that any of the coal rights owned or
          controlled by the System will, in future years, produce for the
          System any major portion of the overall coal supply needed for
          consumption at the coal-fired generating units of the System. 
          Although AEP believes that in the long run it will be able to
          secure coal of adequate quality and in adequate quantities to
          enable existing and new units to comply with emission standards
          applicable to such sources, no assurance can be given that coal
          of such quality and quantity will in fact be available. No
          assurance can be given either that statutes or regulations
          limiting emissions from existing and new sources will not be
          further revised in future years to specify lower sulfur contents
          than now in effect or other restrictions.  See Environmental and
          Other Matters herein.

            The FERC has adopted regulations relating, among other things,
          to the circumstances under which, in the event of fuel
          emergencies or shortages, it might order electric utilities to
          generate and transmit electric energy to other regions or systems
          experiencing fuel shortages, and to rate-making principles by
          which such electric utilities would be compensated.  In addition,
          the Federal Government is authorized, under prescribed
          conditions, to allocate coal and to require the transportation
          thereof, for the use of power plants or major fuel-burning
          installations.

            System companies have developed programs to conserve coal
          supplies at System plants which involve, on a progressive basis,
          limitations on sales of power and energy to neighboring
          utilities, appeals to customers for voluntary limitations of
          electric usage to essential needs, curtailment of sales to
          certain industrial customers, voltage reductions and, finally,
          mandatory reductions in cases where current coal supplies fall
          below minimum levels.  Such programs have been filed and reviewed
          with officials of Federal and state agencies and, in some cases,
          the state regulatory agency has prescribed actions to be taken
          under specified circumstances by System companies, subject to the
          jurisdiction of such agencies.

            The mining of coal reserves is subject to Federal requirements
          with respect to the development and operation of coal mines, and
          to state and Federal regulations relating to land reclamation and
          environmental protection, including Federal strip mining
          legislation enacted in August 1977.  Continual evaluation and
          study is given to possible closure of existing coal mines and
          divestiture or acquisition of coal properties in light of Federal
          and state environmental and mining laws and regulations which may
          affect the System's need for or ability to mine such coal.

            Western coal purchased by System companies is transported by
          rail to a terminal on the Ohio River for transloading to barges
          for delivery to generating stations on the river.  Subsidiaries
          of AEP lease approximately 3,763 coal hopper cars to be used in
          unit train movements, as well as 14 towboats, 295 jumbo barges
          and 185 standard barges.  Subsidiaries of AEP also own or lease
          coal transfer facilities at various locations on the river.

            The System generating companies procure coal from coal
          reserves which are owned or mined by subsidiaries of AEP, and
          through purchases pursuant to long-term contracts, or on a spot
          purchase basis, from unaffiliated producers.  The following table
          shows the amount of coal delivered to the AEP System during the
          past five years, the proportion of such coal which was obtained
          either from coal-mining subsidiaries, from unaffiliated suppliers
          under long-term contracts or through spot or short-term
          purchases, and the average delivered price of spot coal purchased
          by System companies:

          

                           The average cost of coal consumed during the past 
          five years by all AEP System companies, AEGCo, APCo, CSPCo, I&M, 
          KEPCo and OPCo is shown in the following tables:

          

            The coal supplies at AEP System plants vary from time to time
          depending on various factors, including customers' usage of
          electric energy, space limitations, the rate of consumption at
          particular plants, labor unrest and weather conditions which may
          interrupt deliveries.  At December 31, 1994, the System's coal
          inventory was approximately 65 days of normal System usage.  This
          estimate assumes that the total supply would be utilized by
          increasing or decreasing generation at particular plants.

            The following tabulation shows the total consumption during
          1994 of the coal-fired generating units of AEP's principal
          operating subsidiaries, coal requirements of these units over the
          remainder of their useful lives and the average sulfur content of
          coal delivered in 1994 to these units.  Reference is made to
          Environmental and Other Matters for information concerning
          current emissions limitations in the AEP System's various
          jurisdictions and the effects of the Clean Air Act Amendments.

          
            ---------------
          (a)  Preliminary estimates of the effects of the Clean Air Act
               Amendments of 1990 are included.
          (b)  Reflects AEGCo's 50% interest in the Rockport Plant.
          (c)  Includes coal requirements for CSPCo's interest in Beckjord,
               Stuart and Zimmer Plants.
          (d)  Includes I&M's 50% interest in the Rockport Plant.

            AEGCo:  See Fuel Supply -- I&M for a discussion of the coal
          supply for the Rockport Plant.
            APCo:  APCo, or its subsidiaries formerly engaged in coal
          mining, control coal reserves in the State of West Virginia which
          contain approximately 42,000,000 tons of clean recoverable coal,
          ranging in sulfur content between 1.0% and 3.5% sulfur by weight
          (weighted average, 2.6% sulfur by weight).

            Substantially all of the coal consumed at APCo's generating
          plants is obtained from unaffiliated suppliers under long-term
          contracts or on a spot purchase basis.

            The average sulfur content by weight of the coal received by
          APCo at its generating stations approximated 0.7% during 1994,
          whereas the maximum sulfur content permitted, for emission
          standard purposes, for existing plants in the regions in which
          APCo's generating stations are located ranged between 0.78% and
          2% by weight depending in some circumstances on the calorific
          value of the coal which can be obtained for some generating
          stations.

            CSPCo:  CSPCo owns an undivided one-half interest in
          24,000,000 tons of clean recoverable deep-mineable coal in the
          State of Ohio which is located in the vicinity of its
          decommissioned Poston Plant and has an average sulfur content of
          2.4% by weight.  Peabody Coal Company (Peabody), which owns the
          remaining one-half interest, has the right to mine and sell all
          of the jointly owned coal to any party on terms negotiated by
          Peabody.  CSPCo has an option and right of first refusal
          (exercisable within a specified period after tender by Peabody)
          which will permit it to purchase this coal on the same terms as
          those of any contract which Peabody may negotiate with a third
          party.  In the event that CSPCo does not exercise such right, it
          is entitled to receive a royalty on the coal from this reserve
          which Peabody sells to others.  However, in such a case, this
          coal will not be available for CSPCo's use.

            CSPCo also owns coal reserves in eastern and southeastern Ohio
          which contain approximately 46,000,000 tons of clean recoverable
          coal with a sulfur content of approximately 4.5% sulfur by weight
          and reserves that contain approximately 10,000,000 tons of clean
          recoverable coal with a sulfur content of approximately 2.4%
          sulfur by weight.

            CSPCo has a coal supply agreement with an unaffiliated
          supplier for the delivery of 1,272,000 tons of coal per year
          through March 1999.  Such coal contains approximately 4% sulfur
          by weight and is washed to improve its quality and consistency
          for use principally at Unit 4 of the Conesville Plant.

            CSPCo has been informed by CG&E and DP&L that, with respect to
          the CCD Group units partly owned but not operated by CSPCo,
          sufficient coal has been contracted for or is believed to be
          available for the approximate lives of the respective units
          operated by them.  Under the terms of the operating agreements
          with respect to CCD Group units, each operating company is
          contractually responsible for obtaining the needed fuel.

            I&M:  I&M has acquired surface ownership interest in lands in
          Wyoming which, it is estimated, are underlaid by approximately
          730,000,000 tons of clean recoverable coal with an average sulfur
          content by weight of approximately 0.5%.  Federal and state coal
          leases which would provide the rights and authorization to
          extract this coal have not been obtained.  I&M is attempting to
          sell its interest in these lands.
            I&M has entered into coal supply agreements with unaffiliated
          suppliers pursuant to which the suppliers are delivering low
          sulfur coal from surface mines in Wyoming, principally for
          consumption by the Rockport Plant.  Under these agreements, the
          suppliers will sell to I&M, for consumption by I&M at the
          Rockport Plant or consignment to other System companies, coal
          with an average sulfur content not exceeding 1.2 pounds of sulfur
          dioxide per million Btu's of heat input.  A contract with
          remaining deliveries of 72,500,000 tons expires on December 31,
          2014 and a contract with remaining deliveries of 60,000,000 tons
          expires on December 31, 2004.

            I&M or its subsidiaries own or control coal reserves in Carbon
          County, Utah, which are estimated to contain 227,000,000 tons of
          clean recoverable coal with an average sulfur content by weight
          of approximately 0.5% sulfur.  In 1986, I&M and its two
          subsidiaries signed agreements under which certain of such coal
          rights, land, and related mining and preparation equipment and
          facilities were leased or subleased on a long-term basis to
          unaffiliated interests.  In 1993, the remainder of those land and
          coal rights containing approximately 108,000,000 tons of clean
          recoverable coal were leased on a long-term basis to unaffiliated
          interests.  Mining operations in Carbon County formerly conducted
          by I&M were suspended in 1984.

            KEPCo:  Substantially all of the coal consumed at KEPCo's Big
          Sandy Plant is obtained from unaffiliated suppliers under long-
          term contracts or on a spot purchase basis.  KEPCo has entered
          into coal supply agreements with unaffiliated suppliers pursuant
          to which KEPCo will receive approximately 2,718,000 tons of coal
          in 1995.  To the extent that KEPCo has additional coal
          requirements, it may purchase coal from the spot market and/or
          suppliers under contract to supply other System companies.

            OPCo:  OPCo and certain of its coal-mining subsidiaries own or
          control coal reserves in the State of Ohio which contain
          approximately 218,000,000 tons of clean recoverable coal, which
          ranges in sulfur content between 3.4% and 4.5% sulfur by weight
          (weighted average, 3.8%), which can be recovered based upon
          existing mining plans and projections and employing current
          mining practices and techniques.  OPCo and certain of its mining
          subsidiaries own an additional 113,000,000 tons of clean
          recoverable coal in Ohio which ranges in sulfur content between
          2.4% and 3.4% sulfur by weight (weighted average 2.7%).  Recovery
          of this coal would require substantial development.

            OPCo and certain of its coal-mining subsidiaries also own or
          control coal reserves in the State of West Virginia which contain
          approximately 107,000,000 tons of clean recoverable coal ranging
          in sulfur content between 1.4% and 3.3% sulfur by weight
          (weighted average, 2.0%) of which approximately 30,000,000 tons
          can be recovered based upon existing mining plans and projections
          and employing current mining practices and techniques.

             Nuclear

            I&M has made commitments to meet certain of the nuclear fuel
          requirements of the Cook Plant.  The nuclear fuel cycle consists
          of the mining and milling of uranium ore to uranium concentrates;
          the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride;
          the enrichment of uranium hexafluoride; the fabrication of fuel
          assemblies; the utilization of nuclear fuel in the reactor; and
          the reprocessing or other disposition of spent fuel.  Steps
          currently are being taken, based upon the planned fuel cycles for
          the Cook Plant, to review and evaluate I&M's requirements for the
          supply of nuclear fuel beyond the existing contractual
          commitments shown in the following table.  I&M has made and will
          make purchases of uranium in various forms in the spot market
          until it decides that deliveries under long-term supply contracts
          are warranted.  The following table shows the year through which
          contracts have been entered into to provide the requirements of
          the units for the various segments of the nuclear fuel cycle.

          
            ---------------
          1)   I&M has a requirements-type contract with DOE.  I&M has
               partially terminated the contract, subject to revocation of
               the termination, so that it may procure enrichment services
               cost-effectively from the spot market.  I&M also has a
               contract with Cogema, Inc. for the supply of enrichment
               services through 1995, depending on market conditions.
          2)   No reprocessing facility in the United States currently is
               in operation.  I&M has contracted for reprocessing services
               at a facility on which construction has been halted.  Lack
               of reprocessing services has resulted in the need to
               increase on-site storage capacity for spent fuel.

            For purposes of the storage of high-level radioactive waste in
          the form of spent nuclear fuel, I&M has completed modifications
          to its spent nuclear fuel storage pool to permit normal
          operations through 2010.

            I&M's costs of nuclear fuel consumed do not assume any
          residual or salvage value for residual plutonium and uranium.

             Nuclear Waste and Decommissioning

            The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended, establishes
          Federal responsibility for the permanent off-site disposal of
          spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste.  Disposal
          costs are paid by fees assessed against owners of nuclear plants
          and deposited into the Nuclear Waste Fund created by the Act.  In
          1983, I&M entered into a contract with DOE for the disposal of
          spent nuclear fuel.  Under terms of the contract, for the
          disposal of nuclear fuel consumed after April 6, 1983 by I&M's
          Cook Plant, I&M is paying to the fund a fee of one mill per
          kilowatt-hour, which I&M is currently recovering from customers. 
          For the disposal of nuclear fuel consumed prior to April 7, 1983,
          I&M must pay the U.S. Treasury a fee estimated at approximately
          $71,964,000, exclusive of interest of $82,013,000 at December 31,
          1994.  This amount has been recorded as long-term debt with an
          offsetting regulatory asset.  The regulatory asset at December
          31, 1994 of $8,400,000 is being amortized as rate recovery
          occurs.  Because of the current uncertainties surrounding DOE's
          program to provide for permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel,
          I&M has not yet paid any of this fee.  At December 31, 1994,
          funds collected from customers to dispose of spent nuclear fuel
          and related earnings totaled $145,600,000.
            On June 20, 1994, a group of 14 unaffiliated utilities owning
          and operating nuclear plants and a group of states each filed a
          petition for review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District
          of Columbia Circuit requesting that the court issue a declaration
          that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 imposes on DOE an
          unconditional obligation to begin acceptance of spent nuclear
          fuel and high level radioactive waste by January 31, 1998.  DOE
          has indicated in its Notice of Inquiry of May 25, 1994 that its
          preliminary view is that it has no statutory obligation to begin
          to accept spent nuclear fuel beginning in 1998 in the absence of
          an operational repository.

            Studies completed in 1994 estimate decommissioning and low-
          level radioactive waste disposal costs to range from $634,000,000
          to $988,000,000 in 1993 dollars.  The wide range is caused by
          variables in assumptions, including the estimated length of time
          spent nuclear fuel must be stored at the Cook Plant subsequent to
          ceasing operations, which depends on future developments in the
          federal government's spent nuclear fuel disposal program.  I&M is
          recovering decommissioning costs in its three rate-making
          jurisdictions based on at least the lower end of the range in the
          most recent respective decommissioning study available at the
          time of the rate proceeding (the study range utilized in the
          Indiana and Michigan rate cases was $588,000,000 to $1.102
          billion in 1991 dollars).  I&M records decommissioning costs in
          other operation expense and records a noncurrent liability equal
          to the decommissioning cost recovered in rates which was
          $26,000,000 in 1994, $13,000,000 in 1993 and $12,000,000 in 1992. 
          At December 31, 1994, I&M had recognized a decommissioning
          liability of $212,000,000.  I&M will continue to reevaluate
          periodically the cost of decommissioning and to seek regulatory
          approval to revise its rates as necessary.

            Funds recovered through the rate-making process for disposal
          of spent nuclear fuel consumed prior to April 7, 1983 and for
          nuclear decommissioning have been segregated and deposited in
          external funds for the future payment of such costs.  Trust fund
          earnings decrease the amount to be recovered from ratepayers.

            The ultimate cost of radiological decommissioning may be
          materially different from the amounts derived from the estimates
          contained in the site-specific study as a result of (a) the type
          of decommissioning plan selected, (b) the escalation of various
          cost elements (including, but not limited to, general inflation),
          (c) the further development of regulatory requirements governing
          decommissioning, (d) limited experience to date in
          decommissioning such facilities and (e) the technology available
          at the time of decommissioning differing significantly from that
          assumed in these studies.  Accordingly, management is unable to
          provide assurance that the ultimate cost of decommissioning the
          Cook Plant will not be significantly greater than current
          projections.

            In 1994, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) added
          Accounting for Nuclear Decommissioning Liabilities to its agenda. 
          Among the topics to be studied by the FASB is the question of
          when future decommissioning liabilities should be recognized. 
          I&M and the electric utility industry accrue such costs over the
          service life of their nuclear facilities as recovered in rates. 
          A new requirement from the FASB could cause the annual provisions
          for decommissioning to increase should the estimate of the
          remaining unaccrued decommissioning costs be greater than the
          regulators' allowed recovery level.  Management believes that the
          industry's life of the plant accrual accounting method is
          appropriate and should be accepted by the FASB.  Until the FASB
          completes its study and reaches a conclusion, the impact, if any,
          on results of operations and financial condition cannot be
          determined.

            The Low-Level Waste Policy Act of 1980 (LLWPA) mandates that
          the responsibility for the disposal of low-level waste rests with
          the individual states.  Low-level radioactive waste consists
          largely of ordinary trash and other items that have come in
          contact with radioactive materials.  To facilitate this approach,
          the LLWPA authorized states to enter into regional compacts for
          low-level waste disposal subject to Congressional approval.  The
          LLWPA also specified that, beginning in 1986, approved compacts
          may prohibit the importation of low-level waste from other
          regions, thereby providing a strong incentive for states to enter
          into compacts.  As 1986 approached it became apparent that no new
          disposal facilities would be operational, and enforcement of the
          LLWPA would leave no disposal capacity for the majority of the
          low-level waste generated in the United States.  Congress,
          therefore, passed the Low-Level Waste Policy Amendments Act of
          1985.  Michigan was a member of the Midwest Compact, but its
          membership was revoked in 1991.  Michigan is responsible for
          developing a disposal site for the low-level waste generated in
          Michigan.

            In 1990, Nevada, South Carolina and Washington, the three
          states with operating disposal sites, determined that Michigan
          was out of compliance with milestones established by the LLWPA
          which were designed to force development of new disposal sites by
          the end of 1992. Failure of a state or compact region to have met
          a milestone could result in denial of access to operating sites
          for waste generators within the state.  Since November 1990, the
          Cook Plant has been denied access to these operating sites.  The
          Cook Plant's low-level radioactive waste is currently being
          stored on-site.  I&M has an on-site radioactive material storage
          facility at the Cook Plant for temporary preshipment storage of
          the plant's low-level radioactive waste.  The facility can hold
          as much low-level waste as the Cook Plant is expected to produce
          through approximately 2001, and the building could be expanded to
          accommodate the storage of such waste through approximately 2017. 
          Currently, the Cook Plant produces less than 7,000 cubic feet of
          low-level waste annually.

            In 1994, Michigan amended its law regarding disposal sites to
          provide for allowing a volunteer to host a facility.  Although
          progress has been made, the site selection process is very long
          and management is unable to predict when a permanent disposal
          site for Michigan low-level waste will be available.

             Energy Policy Act -- Nuclear Fees

            The Energy Policy Act of 1992 (Energy Act), contains a
          provision to fund the decommissioning and decontamination of
          DOE's existing uranium enrichment facilities from a combination
          of sources including assessments against electric utilities which
          purchased enrichment services from DOE facilities.  I&M's
          remaining estimated liability is $48,598,000, subject to
          inflation adjustments, and is payable in annual assessments over
          the next 12 years.  I&M recorded a regulatory asset concurrent
          with the recording of the liability.  The payments are being
          recorded and recovered as fuel expense.
          ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER MATTERS

            AEP's subsidiaries are subject to regulation by Federal, state
          and local authorities with regard to air and water-quality
          control and other environmental matters, and are subject to
          zoning and other regulation by local authorities.

            It is expected that costs related to environmental
          requirements will eventually be reflected in the rates of AEP's
          operating subsidiaries and that, in the long term, AEP's
          operating subsidiaries will be able to provide for such
          environmental controls as are required.  However, some customers
          may curtail or cease operations as a consequence of higher energy
          costs.  There can be no assurance that all such costs will be
          recovered.

            Except as noted herein, AEP's subsidiaries which own or
          operate generating facilities generally are in compliance with
          pollution control laws and regulations.

             Air Pollution Control

            Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990:  For the AEP System,
          compliance with the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAAA) is
          requiring substantial expenditures for which management is
          seeking recovery through increases in the rates of AEP's
          operating subsidiaries.  OPCo is incurring a major portion of
          such costs.  There can be no assurance that all such costs will
          be recovered.  See Construction and Financing Program --
          Construction Expenditures.

            The CAAA create an emission allowance program pursuant to
          which utilities are authorized to emit a designated quantity of
          sulfur dioxide, measured in tons per year, on a system wide or
          aggregate basis. A utility or utility system will be deemed to
          operate in compliance with the legislation if its aggregate
          annual emissions do not exceed the total number of allowances
          that are allocated to the utility or utility system by the
          federal government and net acquisitions through purchases. 
          Effective January 1, 2000, the legislation establishes a maximum
          national aggregate ceiling on allowances allocated to fossil
          fuel-fired units larger than 25 megawatts.  The allowance cap is
          set at 8.95 million tons.

            Emission reductions are required by virtue of the
          establishment of annual allowance allocations at a level below
          historical emission levels for many utility units.  For units
          that emitted sulfur dioxide above a rate of 2.5 pounds per
          million Btu heat input in 1985, the CAAA establish sulfur dioxide
          allowance limitations (caps or ceilings on emissions) premised
          upon sulfur dioxide emissions at a rate of 2.5 pounds per million
          Btu heat input as of the Phase I deadline of January 1, 1995. 
          The following AEP System units are Phase I-affected units:  I&M's
          Breed Plant and Tanners Creek Unit 4; CSPCo's Beckjord Unit 6,
          Conesville Units 1-4 and Picway Unit 5; and OPCo's Gavin Units 1-
          2, Muskingum River Units 1-5, Cardinal Unit 1, Mitchell Units 1-2
          and Kammer Units   1-3.

            The CAAA contemplate four general methods of compliance:  (i)
          fuel switching; (ii) technological methods of control such as
          scrubbers; (iii) capacity utilization adjustments; and (iv)
          acquisition of allowances to cover anticipated emissions levels. 
          The AEP System permit application and compliance plan filings
          reflect, to some extent, each method of compliance.

            On January 11, 1993, Federal EPA published final regulations
          in the Federal Register which cover the Acid Rain Permit Program,
          Allowance System, Continuous Emission Monitoring, Excess
          Emissions Penalties and Offset Plans and Appeal Procedures. 
          These regulations included allocation of allowances for Phase I
          sources.  On March 12, 1993, several environmental groups, the
          State of New York and a number of utilities (including APCo,
          CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo) filed petitions in the U.S. Court of
          Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit seeking a review of
          the regulations.  The parties have settled a number of issues,
          including those relating to Substitution Unit, Compensation Unit
          and Reduced Utilization plans.  Oral argument has not been
          scheduled for the remaining issues.  Phase I permits have been
          issued for all Phase I-affected units in the AEP System.

            All fossil fuel-fired generating units with capacity greater
          than 25 megawatts are affected in Phase II of the acid rain
          control program.  All Phase II-affected units are allocated
          allowances with which compliance must be accomplished beginning
          January 1, 2000.  The basis for Phase II allowance allocation
          depends on 1985 sulfur dioxide emission rates -- if a unit
          emitted sulfur dioxide in 1985 at a rate in excess of 1.2 pounds
          per million Btu heat input, the allowance allocation is premised
          upon an emission rate of 1.2 pounds as of the Phase II deadline
          of January 1, 2000; if a unit emitted sulfur dioxide in 1985 at a
          rate of less than 1.2 pounds, the allowance allocation is in most
          instances premised upon the actual 1985 emission rate.

            The acid rain title also contains provisions concerning
          nitrogen oxides emissions.  In March 1994, Federal EPA issued
          final regulations governing nitrogen oxides emissions from
          tangentially fired and dry bottom wall-fired boilers at Phase I
          units.  These regulations were appealed to the U.S. Court of
          Appeals for the District of  Columbia Circuit by APCo, CSPCo,
          I&M, KEPCo and OPCo and a group of unaffiliated utilities based
          on the failure of Federal EPA to correctly define low NOx burner
          technology.  On November 29, 1994, the court remanded the rules
          to Federal EPA.  On December 16, 1994, OPCo and CSPCo filed
          appeals seeking the suspension of NOx limits contained in acid
          rain permits for Conesville, Picway and Mitchell plants pending
          the reissuance of NOx regulations.  On February 7, 1995, Federal
          EPA published a notice in the Federal Register advising that the
          NOx limitations contained in the permits for these plants were
          suspended pending the remanded rulemaking.

            For wet bottom wall-fired boilers, cyclone boilers, units
          applying cell burner technology and all other types of boilers,
          emission limitations comparable in cost to the controls
          applicable to tangentially fired boilers and non-cell burner dry
          bottom wall-fired boilers are to be adopted no later than January
          1, 1997.  The 1997 nitrogen oxides emission limitations are
          required to be met by Phase II-affected sources as of January 1,
          2000.

            The CAAA contain additional provisions, other than the acid
          rain title, which could require reductions in emissions of
          nitrogen oxides from fossil fuel-fired power plants.  Title I,
          dealing generally with nonattainment of ambient air quality
          standards, establishes a tiered system for classifying degrees of
          nonattainment with air quality standards for ozone and mandates
          that Federal EPA in cooperation with the states issue, within 240
          days of enactment, ozone "attainment" or "nonattainment"
          designations for airsheds throughout the country.  Depending upon
          the severity of nonattainment within a given nonattainment area,
          reductions in nitrogen oxides emissions from fossil fuel-fired
          power plants may be required as part of a state's plan for
          achieving attainment with ozone air quality standards.  The
          deadlines for submission of new state plans and the
          accomplishment of mandated emission reductions, as well as the
          nature of stationary source nitrogen oxides control requirements,
          also depend upon the severity of a given airshed's nonattainment. 
          While ozone nonattainment is largely restricted to urban areas,
          several AEP System generating stations could be determined to be
          affecting ozone concentrations and may therefore eventually be
          required to reduce nitrogen oxides emissions pursuant to Title I. 
          In addition, certain environmental organizations and northeastern
          states have filed comments with Federal EPA contending that NOx
          emissions from the midwest must be reduced in order to achieve
          the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone in the
          northeast.  Plants currently located in areas being evaluated for
          imposition of additional emission controls include Zimmer and
          Beckjord Unit 6 (both partially owned by CSPCo), I&M's Tanners
          Creek Plant, KEPCo's Big Sandy Plant, OPCo's Gavin Plant and
          APCo's Amos, Sporn, Kanawha River and Mountaineer plants.  On
          February 25, 1994, the West Virginia Division of Environmental
          Protection issued a consent order for APCo's Amos Units 1 and 2,
          requiring reductions in nitrogen oxides emissions from these
          units after June 1, 1995.  The reduction in nitrogen oxides
          emissions will be less than that required under Title IV of the
          CAAA but will be required at an earlier time.  On September 6,
          1994, Federal EPA officially redesignated Putnam, Wood and
          Kanawha counties to ozone attainment.  West Virginia does not
          plan to impose NOx reduction requirements under Title I of the
          CAAA as part of its ozone maintenance plan in any of the five
          former moderate ozone non-attainment counties, barring any other
          mandate from Federal EPA to do so.

            Utility boilers are potentially subject to additional control
          requirements under Title III of the CAAA governing hazardous air
          pollutant emissions.  Federal EPA is directed to conduct studies
          concerning the potential public health impacts of pollutants
          identified by the legislation as hazardous in connection with
          their emission from electric utility steam generating units. 
          Federal EPA was required to report the results of this study to
          Congress by November 1993 and is required to regulate emissions
          of these pollutants from electric utility steam generating units
          if it is determined that such regulation is necessary and
          appropriate, based on the results of the study.  Federal EPA
          informed Congress that completion of this study has been delayed
          significantly beyond the November 1993 deadline.  Federal EPA has
          received a court order to complete the study and submit it by
          November 1995.  Additionally, Federal EPA is directed to study
          the deposition of hazardous pollutants to the Great Lakes, the
          Chesapeake Bay, Lake Champlain and other coastal waters.  As part
          of this assessment, Federal EPA is authorized to adopt
          regulations by November 1995 to prevent serious adverse effects
          to public health and serious or widespread environmental effects. 
          It is possible that emissions from electric utility generating
          units may be regulated under this water body deposition
          assessment program.

            The CAAA expand the enforcement authority of the Federal
          government by increasing the range of civil and criminal
          penalties for violations of the Clean Air Act and enhancing
          administrative civil provisions, adding a citizens suit provision
          and imposing a national operating permit system, emission fee
          program and enhanced monitoring, record keeping and reporting
          requirements for existing and new sources.

            CAAA-AEP System Compliance Plan:  In 1992, the PUCO approved a
          systemwide Phase I CAAA compliance plan.  The AEP System's
          compliance plan centers around the compliance method selected for
          OPCo's two-unit 2,600-megawatt Gavin Plant which has emitted
          about 25% of the System's total sulfur dioxide emissions.  Under
          an Ohio law, utilities could obtain advance PUCO approval of a
          least-cost compliance plan which would be deemed prudent in
          subsequent PUCO rate proceedings.

            The PUCO approved least-cost plan set forth compliance
          measures for the System's affected generating units, which
          included (i) installing leased flue gas desulfurization equipment
          (scrubbers) to burn Ohio high-sulfur coal at Gavin and (ii)
          designating Gavin's coal supply sources to include the affiliated
          Meigs mine at a reduced operating capacity and under
          predetermined prices, new long-term contracts with unaffiliated
          sources and spot market purchases.

            Pursuant to a settlement agreement approved by the PUCO in
          connection with OPCo's rate case discussed in Rates -- OPCo, the
          PUCO reaffirmed its approval of the compliance plan, which does
          not seek to fuel switch Cardinal Unit 1 or Muskingum River Units
          1-4 to low-sulfur coal at the beginning of Phase I of the CAAA. 
          Under the terms of the compliance plan, OPCo's Muskingum River
          Unit 5 has been switched to low-sulfur coal.  CSPCo's Conesville
          Units 1-3 are being modified to enable these units to burn coal
          or natural gas to comply.  Actual fuel choice will depend on the
          cost and availability of gas.  Although the compliance plan
          originally contemplated that CSPCo's Picway Unit 5 also would be
          modified to enable this unit to burn coal or natural gas to
          comply, this proposed modification has been indefinitely
          deferred.  Beckjord Unit 6 (owned with CG&E and DP&L) has been
          switched to moderate sulfur coal.  I&M's Tanners Creek Unit 4 has
          also been switched to moderate sulfur coal and I&M's Breed Plant
          was retired in 1994. Eight additional units are subject to Phase
          I rules, but no operating or fuel changes are planned, because
          they will hold allowances sufficient for compliance.  Fuel
          switching is planned for Muskingum River Units 1-4 in 2000 and
          Cardinal Unit 1 in 2001 for Phase II compliance.

            Since the approved plan reflects fuel switching to comply at
          OPCo's Muskingum River Plant and Cardinal Unit 1, mining
          operations at OPCo's wholly-owned coal-mining subsidiaries,
          Central Ohio Coal Company and Windsor Coal Company, could be shut
          down resulting in substantial costs.  Central Ohio Coal Company
          and Windsor Coal Company supply coal to Muskingum River Plant and
          Cardinal Plant, respectively.  Central Ohio Coal Company reduced
          its operating level by approximately 50% in 1994.  Windsor Coal
          Company has also reduced its operating level to comply with the
          CAAA.

            As a result of the aforementioned PUCO approval of OPCo's
          least-cost compliance plan, OPCo entered into an agreement in
          1992 for construction and lease of the Gavin Plant scrubbers with
          JMG Funding, Limited Partnership (JMG), an unaffiliated entity. 
          Management currently expects that the cost of the leased
          scrubbers will be approximately $675,000,000.  See Construction
          and Financing Program -- Construction Expenditures.  The
          scrubbers on Gavin Units 1 and 2 commenced operation in December
          1994 and March 1995, respectively.

            On March 15, 1995, OPCo began to lease the scrubbers from JMG. 
          The lease term is for 34 years, subject to certain termination
          provisions.  OPCo may purchase the scrubbers during the last 19
          years of the lease term and may renew the lease for an additional
          20 years.

            Rent will be payable quarterly and will reflect, among other
          factors, amortization of the final cost of the scrubbers and the
          costs of JMG's equity and debt capital.  OPCo's rental obligation
          under the lease has been pledged by JMG as security for the debt
          portion of its financing.

            Recovery of compliance costs is being and will be sought
          through the rate-making process.  The aforementioned OPCo
          settlement agreement provides, among other things, for OPCo to
          recover the annual lease cost of the scrubbers and other
          compliance costs and provides OPCo with an opportunity to recover
          its Ohio jurisdictional share of its investment in and the
          liabilities and closing costs of the affiliated Central Ohio and
          Windsor mining operations to the extent the actual cost of coal
          burned at the Gavin Plant is below a predetermined price.  AEP
          intends to also seek timely recovery of all compliance costs,
          including mine shutdown costs, from its non-Ohio jurisdictional
          customers.  There can be no assurance that regulators will
          provide for recovery of all CAAA compliance costs.  Compliance
          with the CAAA, including potential mine closure costs, could have
          an adverse effect on results of operations and possibly financial
          condition unless the costs can be recovered from ratepayers
          and/or from asset dispositions.

            Global Climate Change:  Increasing concentrations of
          "greenhouse gases," including carbon dioxide (CO/2/), in the
          atmosphere have led to concerns about the potential for the
          earth's climate to change.  As a result of the AEP System's
          historical practice of using low-cost indigenous coal supplies to
          produce electricity, AEP System power plants are significant
          sources of CO/2/ emissions.  The proponents of the theory of
          global climate change maintain that the increasing concentrations
          of man-made greenhouse gases will cause some of the sun's energy
          that is normally radiated back into space to be trapped in the
          atmosphere and that, as a result, the global temperature will
          increase.  Management is working to support further efforts to
          properly study the issue of global climate change to define the
          extent, if any, to which it poses a threat to the environment
          before new restrictions are imposed.  Management is concerned
          that new laws may be passed or new regulations promulgated
          without sufficient scientific study and support.

            At the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in June 1992,
          over 150 nations, including the United States, signed a global
          climate change treaty.  Each country that ratifies the treaty
          commits itself to a process of achieving the aim of reducing
          greenhouse gas emissions, including CO/2/, to their 1990 level by
          the year 2000.  On October 7, 1992, the U.S. Senate ratified the
          treaty.  The treaty went into effect on March 21, 1994.

            In accordance with the obligations set forth in the global
          climate change treaty, on April 21, 1993, President Clinton
          committed the United States to reducing greenhouse gas emissions
          to 1990 levels by the year 2000.  On October 19, 1993, the
          President unveiled the Administration's Climate Change Action
          Plan for meeting this emission reduction target.  The plan
          emphasizes reductions in fossil fuel use, the largest source of
          CO/2/ emissions, primarily through reliance on voluntary energy
          efficiency programs and voluntary partnerships between the
          Federal government and U.S. industry.  One such collaboration is
          between the electric utility industry and DOE.  Known as the
          Utility Climate Challenge, this initiative is intended to
          identify voluntary, cost-effective measures to reduce, avoid or
          sequester future greenhouse gas emissions.  AEP System companies
          joined with nearly 800 investor-owned, municipal, rural electric
          cooperative and Federal utilities in a voluntary agreement signed
          with DOE on April 20, 1994 that is intended to lead to reductions
          in future greenhouse gas emissions through cost-effective
          actions.  On February 3, 1995, the AEP System entered into the
          Climate Challenge Participation Accord with DOE.  The Accord
          contains a wide diversity of supply-side, demand-side and forest
          management/tree planting activities that will be undertaken on
          the AEP System between now and the year 2000.

            Since the AEP System is a major emitter of carbon dioxide, its
          financial condition and results of operations could be materially
          adversely affected by the imposition of severe command-and-
          control limitations on carbon dioxide emissions if the compliance
          costs incurred are not fully recovered from ratepayers.  In
          addition, any such severe program to stabilize or reduce carbon
          dioxide emissions could impose substantial costs on industry and
          society and seriously erode the economic base that AEP's
          operations serve.

            Ohio:  On July 29, 1988, Federal EPA issued a notice of
          violation alleging that OPCo's Muskingum River Plant operated in
          violation of Ohio EPA's regulation governing visible emissions
          during 1987. At a November 1988 enforcement conference pursuant
          to Clean Air Act Section 113, OPCo representatives presented
          evidence to Federal EPA indicating that the notice of violation
          was not supported by factual evidence nor by law.  Federal EPA
          has yet to take further action.

            West Virginia:  The West Virginia Air Pollution Control
          Commission promulgated sulfur dioxide limitations which Federal
          EPA approved in February 1978.  The emission limitations for the
          Mitchell Plant  have been approved by Federal EPA for primary
          ambient air quality (health-related) standards only.  The West
          Virginia Air Pollution Control Commission is obliged to reanalyze
          sulfur dioxide emission limits for the Mitchell Plant with
          respect to secondary ambient air quality (welfare-related)
          standards.  Because the Clean Air Act provides no specific
          deadline for approval of emission limits to achieve secondary
          ambient air quality standards, it is not certain when Federal EPA
          will take dispositive action regarding the Mitchell Plant.

            West Virginia has also had a request to increase the sulfur
          dioxide emission limitation for Kammer pending before Federal EPA
          for many years, although the change has not been acted upon by
          Federal EPA.  On August 4, 1994, however, Federal EPA issued a
          Notice of Violation to OPCo alleging that Kammer Plant was
          operating in violation of the applicable federally enforceable
          sulfur dioxide emission limit.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings --
          Kammer Plant.  A portion of the Notice of Violation relating to
          compliance has been resolved and separate proceedings have been
          initiated by OPCo with both the West Virginia Division of
          Environmental Protection and Region III, Federal EPA in an effort
          to obtain approval for utilization of the existing fuel supply
          beyond September 1, 1995.  The outcome of this initiative cannot
          be predicted at this time.

            Stack Height Regulations:  On June 27, 1985, Federal EPA
          issued stack height regulations pursuant to an order of the
          United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
          Circuit.  These regulations were appealed by a number of states,
          environmental groups and investor-owned electric utilities
          (including APCo, CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo), along with three
          electric utility trade associations.  OPCo also filed a separate
          petition for review to raise issues unique to its Kammer Plant. 
          Various petitions for reconsideration filed with and denied by
          Federal EPA were also appealed.  This litigation was consolidated
          into a single case.

            On January 22, 1988, the U.S. Court of Appeals issued a
          decision in part upholding the June 1985 stack height rules and
          remanding certain of the June 1985 rules to Federal EPA for
          further consideration.  With respect to Kammer Plant, the January
          1988 court decision rejected OPCo's appeal, holding that Federal
          EPA acted lawfully in revoking stack height credit previously
          granted for Kammer Plant in October 1982.  As discussed above,
          OPCo is in the process of initiating administrative proceedings
          under the 1985 stack height rules with the State of West Virginia
          and Federal EPA in an effort to preserve stack height credit for
          Kammer Plant.

            While it is not possible to state with particularity the
          ultimate impact of the final rules on AEP System operations, at
          present it appears that the most likely AEP System plants at
          which the final rules could possibly result in substantially more
          stringent emission limitations are CSPCo's Conesville Plant,
          AEGCo's and I&M's Rockport Plant, I&M's Tanners Creek Plant and
          OPCo's Gavin and Kammer plants.  Gavin and Rockport plants were
          not affected by Federal EPA's stack height rules as issued in
          June 1985.  However, the provision exempting these plants was
          remanded to Federal EPA in the January 1988 court decision. 
          Accordingly, the ultimate impact of the stack height rules on
          Gavin and Rockport plants will not be known until Federal EPA
          completes administrative proceedings on remand and reissues final
          stack height rules.  OPCo and AEGCo and I&M intend to participate
          in the remand rulemaking affecting Gavin and Rockport plants,
          respectively.

            State air pollution control agencies will be required to
          implement the stack height rules by revising emission limitations
          for sources subject to the rules and submitting such revisions to
          Federal EPA.

            On June 1, 1989, Ohio EPA adopted a rule concerning CSPCo's
          Conesville Plant in response to Federal EPA's stack height rules
          adopted in 1985.  Under Federal EPA policy published in January
          1988, emission reductions required by the stack height rules may
          be obtained at plants other than the plant directly affected by
          the rules, and thereafter credited to the directly affected
          plant.  Under Ohio EPA's June 1 rule, the sulfur dioxide emission
          limitations for Conesville Units 5 and 6 remain at 1.2 pounds
          sulfur dioxide per million Btu heat input as long as the emission
          rate at CSPCo's retired Poston Units 1-4 remains at 0.0 pounds
          sulfur dioxide per million Btu heat input.  Federal EPA has yet
          to take action concerning Ohio EPA's June 1 rule.
            Administrative Developments Regarding Sulfur Dioxide:  On
          November 15, 1994, Federal EPA published a notice in the Federal
          Register proposing to retain the present 24-hour national ambient
          air quality standard for sulfur dioxide.  Federal EPA also sought
          comment on the need to adopt additional regulations to address
          short-term exposures to sulfur dioxide.  Federal EPA is
          soliciting comments on three alternatives, including the adoption
          of a short-term standard averaged over a five-minute period.
          Adoption of any of these proposed approaches could require
          substantial reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions from the
          System's coal-fired generating plants which would entail
          substantial capital and operating costs.  In a related action,
          Federal EPA, on March 7, 1995, proposed requirements for
          implementing strategies to reduce short-term (five-minute) peak
          concentrations of sulfur dioxide in order to reduce health risks
          to exercising asthmatics.  The effect on AEP operations of
          Federal EPA's proposed risk-based targeting strategies for
          further regulating sulfur dioxide emissions, if finalized, cannot
          be predicted, but may be significant.

            Life Extension:  On July 21, 1992, Federal EPA published final
          regulations in the Federal Register governing application of new
          source rules to generating plant repairs and pollution control
          projects undertaken to comply with the Clean Air Act Amendments
          of 1990.  Generally, the rule provides that plants undertaking
          pollution control projects will not trigger new source review
          requirements.  The Natural Resource Defense Council and a group
          of utilities, including five AEP System companies, have filed
          petitions in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
          Columbia Circuit seeking a review of the regulations.

             Water Pollution Control

            Under the Clean Water Act, effluent limitations requiring
          application of the best available technology economically
          achievable are to be applied, and those limitations require that
          no pollutants be discharged if Federal EPA finds elimination of
          such discharges is technologically and economically achievable.

            The Clean Water Act provides citizens with a cause of action
          to enforce compliance with its pollution control requirements. 
          Since 1982, many such actions against NPDES permit holders have
          been filed.  To date, no AEP System plants have been named in
          such actions.

            All System Plants are operating with NPDES permits. Under
          EPA's regulations, operation under an expired NPDES permit is
          authorized provided an application is filed at least 180 days
          prior to expiration.  Renewal applications are being prepared or
          have been filed for renewal of NPDES permits which expire in
          1995.

            The NPDES permits generally require that certain thermal
          impact study programs be undertaken.  These studies have been
          completed for all System plants. Thermal variances are in effect
          for all plants with once-through cooling water.  Recently renewed
          thermal variances for Conesville and Muskingum River plants were
          more stringent in their controls, but the cost impacts are not
          expected to be significant.

            Certain mining operations conducted by System companies as
          discussed under Fuel Supply are also subject to Federal and state
          water pollution control requirements, which may entail
          substantial expenditures for control facilities, not included at
          present in the System's construction cost estimates set forth
          herein.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings -- Meigs Mine with respect
          to litigation regarding certain discharges from OPCo's Meigs 31
          mine.

            The Federal Water Quality Act of 1987 requires states to adopt
          stringent water quality standards for a large category of toxic
          pollutants and to identify specialized control measures for
          dischargers to waters where water quality standards are not being
          met.  Implementation of these provisions could result in
          significant costs to the AEP System if biological monitoring
          requirements and water quality-based effluent limits are placed
          in NPDES permits.

            In March 1995, Federal EPA finalized a set of rules which
          establish minimum water quality standards, anti-degradation
          policies and implementation procedures for more stringently
          controlling releases of toxic pollutants into the Great Lakes
          system.  This regulatory package is called the Great Lakes Water
          Quality Initiative (GLWQI).  The most direct compliance cost
          impact could be related to I&M's Cook Plant.  Management cannot
          presently determine whether the GLWQI would have a significant
          adverse impact on AEP operations.  The significance of such
          impact will depend on the outcome of Federal EPA's policy on
          intake credits and site specific variables as well as Michigan's
          implementation strategy.  If Indiana and Ohio eventually adopt
          the GLWQI criteria for statewide application, AEP System plants
          located in those states could also be affected.

             Hazardous Substances and Wastes

            Section 311 of the Clean Water Act imposes substantial
          penalties for spills of Federal EPA-listed hazardous substances
          into water and for failure to report such spills.  The
          Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
          Act expanded the reporting requirements to cover the release of
          hazardous substances generally into the environment, including
          water, land and air.  AEP's subsidiaries store and use some of
          these hazardous substances, including PCB's contained in certain
          capacitors and transformers, but the occurrence and ramifications
          of a spill or release of such substances cannot be predicted. 
          The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
          Liability Act provides governmental agencies with the authority
          to require clean-up of hazardous waste sites and releases of
          hazardous substances into the environment.  Since liability under
          this Act is strict and can be applied retroactively, AEP System
          companies which previously disposed of PCB-containing electrical
          equipment and other hazardous substances may be required to
          participate in remedial activities at such disposal sites should
          environmental problems result.  AEP System companies are
          presently identified as parties  responsible for clean-up at
          eight federal sites, including I&M at four sites, KEPCo at one
          site, OPCo at two sites and Wheeling Power Company at one site. 
          I&M also has been named as a party responsible for clean-up at
          one state site.  The companies' share of clean-up costs, however,
          is not expected to be significant.  AEP System companies,
          including I&M and OPCo, also have been named as defendants in
          contribution lawsuits for two additional sites.

            Regulations issued by Federal EPA under the Toxic Substances
          Control Act govern the use, distribution and disposal of PCBs,
          including PCBs in electrical equipment.  Deadlines for removing
          certain PCB-containing electrical equipment from service have
          been met.

            In addition to handling hazardous substances, the System
          companies generate solid waste associated with the combustion of
          coal, the vast majority of which is fly ash, bottom ash and flue
          gas desulfurization wastes.  These wastes presently are
          considered to be non-hazardous under RCRA and applicable state
          law and the wastes are treated and disposed in surface
          impoundments or landfills in accordance with state permits or
          authorization or beneficially utilized.  As required by RCRA, EPA
          evaluated whether high volume coal combustion wastes (such as fly
          ash, bottom ash and flue gas desulfurization wastes) should be
          regulated as hazardous waste.  In August, 1993 EPA issued a
          regulatory determination that such high volume coal combustion
          wastes should not be regulated as hazardous waste.  For low
          volume coal combustion wastes, such as metal and boiler cleaning
          wastes, Federal EPA will gather additional information and make a
          regulatory determination by April 1998.  Until that time, these
          low volume wastes are provisionally excluded from regulation
          under the hazardous waste provisions of RCRA.  All presently
          generated hazardous waste is being disposed of at permitted off-
          site facilities in compliance with applicable Federal and state
          laws and regulations.  For System facilities which generate such
          wastes, System companies have filed the requisite notices and are
          complying with RCRA and applicable state regulations for
          generators.  Nuclear waste produced at the Cook Plant is excluded
          from regulation under RCRA.

            Federal EPA's technical requirements for underground storage
          tanks containing petroleum will require retrofitting or
          replacement of an appreciable number of tanks.  Compliance costs
          for tank replacement and site remediation have not been
          significant to date.

             Electric and Magnetic Fields (EMF)

            EMF is found everywhere there is electricity.  Electric fields
          are created by the presence of electric charges.  Magnetic fields
          are produced by the flow of those charges. This means that EMF is
          created by electricity flowing in transmission and distribution
          lines, or being used in household wiring and appliances.

            A number of studies in the past several years have examined
          the possibility of adverse health effects from EMF.  While some
          of the epidemiological studies have indicated some association
          between exposure to EMF and health effects, the majority of
          studies have indicated no such association.  The epidemiological
          studies that have received the most public attention reflect a
          weak correlation between surrogate or indirect estimates of EMF
          exposure and certain cancers.  Studies using direct measurements
          of EMF exposure show no such association.

            There were three epidemiological studies of EMF and utility
          workers published from 1993 through early 1995 -- each with
          results that contradicted the others.  One reported a weak
          association between EMF and a type of adult leukemia, but not
          brain cancer; while another reported a weak association with
          brain cancer, but not leukemia.  However, the third found no
          evidence of increased deaths from cancer, including leukemia and
          brain cancer.  A conclusion cannot be drawn from these three
          studies.  The researchers are collaborating to reexamine their
          data collection techniques, exposure assessments, and statistical
          analyses to possibly reconcile their conflicting findings by
          looking at the three studies together.

            In addition, the research has not shown any causal
          relationship between EMF exposure and cancer, or any other
          adverse health effects.  Additional studies, which are intended
          to provide a better understanding of the subject, are continuing.

            Federal EPA is currently studying whether exposure to EMF is
          associated with cancer in humans. In 1990, Federal EPA issued a
          draft report on EMF, received interagency review and public
          comment, and is in the process of preparing its final report.  A
          December 1992 brochure from Federal EPA, Questions And Answers
          About Electric And Magnetic Fields (EMFs), states at page 3, "The
          bottom line is that there is no established cause and effect
          relationship between EMF exposure and cancer or other disease."

            The Energy Policy Act of 1992 established a coordinated
          Federal EMF research program.  The program funding is $65,000,000
          over five years, half of which is to be provided by private
          parties including utilities.  AEP has committed to contribute
          $446,571 over the five-year period.

            AEP's participation is a continuation of its efforts to
          support further research and to communicate with its customers
          and employees about this issue.  Its operating company
          subsidiaries provide their residential customers with information
          and field measurements on request, although there is no
          scientific basis for interpreting such measurements.

            A number of lawsuits based on EMF-related grounds have been
          filed in recent years against electric utilities.  A suit was
          filed on May 23, 1990 against I&M involving claims that EMF from
          a 345 KV transmission line caused adverse health effects.  No
          specific amount has been requested for damages in this case and
          no trial date has been set.

            Some states have enacted regulations to limit the strength of
          magnetic fields at the edge of transmission line rights-of-way. 
          No state which the AEP System serves has done so.  In March 1993,
          The Ohio Power Siting Board issued its amended rules providing
          for additional consideration of the possible effects of EMF in
          the certification of electric transmission facilities.  Under the
          amended EMF rules, persons seeking approval to build electric
          transmission lines have to provide estimates of EMF from
          transmission lines under a variety of conditions.  In addition,
          applicants are required to address possible health effects and
          discuss the consideration of design alternatives with respect to
          EMF.

            In April 1993, the State of Indiana enacted a law which
          provides that the IURC shall determine, based on the
          preponderance of evidence in the scientific literature, whether
          rules are necessary to protect the public health from EMF.  If
          the IURC determines that such rules are necessary, the IURC is
          required to adopt rules that reasonably protect the public health
          from EMF.

            Management cannot predict the ultimate impact of the question
          of EMF exposure and adverse health effects.  If further research
          shows that EMF exposure contributes to increased risk of cancer
          or other health problems, or if the courts conclude that EMF
          exposure harms individuals and that utilities are liable for
          damages, or if states limit the strength of magnetic fields to
          such a level that the current electricity delivery system must be
          significantly changed, then the results of operation and
          financial condition of AEP and its operating subsidiaries could
          be materially adversely affected unless these costs can be
          recovered from rate payers.

          RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

            AEP and its subsidiaries are involved in a number of research
          projects which are directed toward developing more efficient
          methods of burning coal, reducing the contaminants resulting from
          combustion of coal, and improving the efficiency and reliability
          of power transmission, distribution and utilization, including
          load management.  See Construction and Financing Program -- PFBC
          Projects.

            AEP System operating companies have elected to join the
          Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI), a nonprofit
          organization that manages research and development on behalf of
          the U.S. electric utility industry.  EPRI, founded in 1973,
          manages technical research and development programs for its
          members to improve power production, delivery and use. 
          Approximately 700 utilities are members.  EPRI has agreed to a
          membership program with AEP whereby dues will be phased in from
          1994 through 1996.  AEP's operating companies are seeking
          recovery of these dues through rates, which recovery is
          anticipated to closely relate to each company's membership date.

            Total research and development expenditures by AEP and its
          subsidiaries were approximately $7,700,000 for the year ended
          December 31, 1994, $13,800,000 for the year ended December 31,
          1993 and $14,200,000 for the year ended December 31, 1992,
          including $2,200,000, $10,900,000 and $12,000,000, respectively,
          for Tidd Plant and related PFBC costs.  1994 expenditures also
          included $3,200,000 for EPRI dues.

          Item 2.  PROPERTIES
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            At December 31, 1994, subsidiaries of AEP owned (or leased
          where indicated) generating plants with the net power
          capabilities (winter rating) shown in the following table:

          
            ---------------
          (a)  Unit 1 of the Rockport Plant is owned one-half by AEGCo and
               one-half by I&M.  Unit 2 of the Rockport Plant is leased
               one-half by AEGCo and one-half by I&M.  The leases terminate
               in 2022 unless extended.
          (b)  Unit 3 of the John E. Amos Plant is owned one-third by APCo
               and two-thirds by OPCo.
          (c)  Represents CSPCo's ownership interest in generating units
               owned in common with CG&E and DP&L.
          (d)  Leased from the City of Fort Wayne, Indiana.  Since 1975,
               I&M has leased and operated the assets of the municipal
               system of the City of Fort Wayne, Indiana under a 35-year
               lease with a provision for an additional 15-year extension
               at the election of I&M.
          (e)  Kanawha Valley Power Company has requested regulatory
               approval to merge into APCo.
          (f)  The scrubber facilities at the Gavin Plant are leased.  The
               lease terminates in 2029 unless extended or terminated
               earlier.

            See Item 1 under Fuel Supply, for information concerning coal
          reserves owned or controlled by subsidiaries of AEP.

            The following table sets forth the total circuit miles of
          transmission and distribution lines of the AEP System, APCo,
          CSPCo, I&M, KEPCo and OPCo and that portion of the total
          representing 765,000-volt lines:

          
          ---------------
          (a)  Includes 766 miles of 345,000-volt jointly owned lines.
          (b)  Includes lines of other AEP System companies not shown.

          TITLES

            The AEP System's electric generating stations are generally
          located on lands owned in fee simple.  The greater portion of the
          transmission and distribution lines of the System has been
          constructed over lands of private owners pursuant to easements or
          along public highways and streets pursuant to appropriate
          statutory authority.  The rights of the System in the realty on
          which its facilities are located are considered by it to be
          adequate for its use in the conduct of its business.  Minor
          defects and irregularities customarily found in title to
          properties of like size and character may exist, but such defects
          and irregularities do not materially impair the use of the
          properties affected thereby.  System companies generally have the
          right of eminent domain whereby they may, if necessary, acquire,
          perfect or secure titles to or easements on privately-held lands
          used or to be used in their utility operations.

            Substantially all the physical properties of APCo, CSPCo, I&M,
          KEPCo and OPCo are subject to the lien of the mortgage and deed
          of trust securing the first mortgage bonds of each such company.

          SYSTEM TRANSMISSION LINES AND FACILITY SITING

            Legislation in the states of Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan,
          Ohio, Virginia, and West Virginia requires prior approval of
          sites of generating facilities and/or routes of high-voltage
          transmission lines.  Delays and additional costs in constructing
          facilities have been experienced as a result of proceedings
          conducted pursuant to such statutes, as well as in proceedings in
          which operating companies have sought to acquire rights-of-way
          through condemnation, and such proceedings may result in
          additional delays and costs in future years.

          PEAK DEMAND

            The AEP System is interconnected through 119 high-voltage
          transmission interconnections with 29 neighboring electric
          utility systems.  The all-time and 1994 one-hour peak System
          demand was 25,940,000 kilowatts (which included 7,314,000
          kilowatts of scheduled deliveries to unaffiliated systems which
          the System might, on appropriate notice, have elected not to
          schedule for delivery) and occurred on June 17, 1994.  The net
          dependable capacity to serve the System load on such date,
          including power available under contractual obligations, was
          23,457,000 kilowatts.  The all-time and 1994 one-hour internal
          peak demand was 19,236,000 kilowatts and occurred on January 19,
          1994.  The net dependable capacity to serve the System load on
          such date, including power dedicated under contractual
          arrangements, was 23,995,000 kilowatts.  The all-time one-hour
          integrated and internal net system peak demands and 1994 peak
          demands for AEP's generating subsidiaries are shown in the
          following tabulation:

          

          HYDROELECTRIC PLANTS

            Licenses for hydroelectric plants, issued under the Federal
          Power Act, reserve to the United States the right to take over
          the project at the expiration of the license term, to issue a new
          license to another entity, or to relicense the project to the
          existing licensee.  In the event that a project is taken over by
          the United States or licensed to a new licensee, the Federal
          Power Act provides for payment to the existing licensee of its
          "net investment" plus severance damages.  Licenses for six System
          hydroelectric plants expired in 1993 and applications for new
          licenses for these plants were filed in 1991.  The existing
          licenses for these plants were extended on an annual basis and
          will be renewed automatically until new licenses are issued.  No
          competing license applications were filed.  Four new licenses were
          issued in 1994.

          COOK NUCLEAR PLANT

            Unit 1 of the Cook Plant, which was placed in commercial
          operation in 1975, has a nominal net electric rating of 1,020,000
          kilowatts.  Unit 1's availability factor was 71.0% during 1994
          and 100% during 1993.  Unit 2, of slightly different design, has
          a nominal net electrical rating of 1,090,000 kilowatts and was
          placed in commercial operation in 1978.  Unit 2's availability
          factor was 54.3% during 1994 and 96.6% during 1993.  The
          availability of Units 1 and 2 was affected in 1994 by outages to
          refuel.

            Units 1 and 2 are licensed by the NRC to operate at 100% of
          rated thermal power to October 25, 2014 and December 23, 2017,
          respectively.

            Costs associated with the operation, maintenance and
          retirement of nuclear plants have continued to increase and
          become less predictable, in large part due to changing regulatory
          requirements and safety standards and experience gained in the
          construction and operation of nuclear facilities.  I&M may also
          incur costs and experience reduced output at its Cook Plant
          because of the design criteria prevailing at the time of
          construction and the age of the plant's systems and equipment. 
          In addition, for economic or other reasons, operation of the Cook
          Plant for the full term of its now assumed life cannot be
          assured.  Nuclear industry-wide and Cook Plant initiatives have
          contributed to slowing the growth of operating and maintenance
          costs.  However, the ability of I&M to obtain adequate and timely
          recovery of costs associated with the Cook Plant, including
          replacement power and retirement costs, is not assured.

             Nuclear Incident Liability

            The Price-Anderson Act limits public liability for a nuclear
          incident at any licensed reactor in the United States to $8.9
          billion.  I&M has insurance coverage for liability from a nuclear
          incident at its Cook Plant.  Such coverage is provided through a
          combination of private liability insurance, with the maximum
          amount available of $200,000,000, and mandatory participation for
          the remainder of the $8.9 billion liability, in an industry
          retrospective deferred premium plan which would, in case of a
          nuclear incident, assess all licensees of nuclear plants in the
          U.S.  Under the deferred premium plan, I&M could be assessed up
          to $158,600,000 payable in annual installments of $20,000,000 in
          the event of a nuclear incident at Cook or any other nuclear
          plant in the U.S.  There is no limit on the number of incidents
          for which I&M could be assessed these sums.

            I&M also has property damage, decontamination and
          decommissioning insurance for loss resulting from damage to the
          Cook Plant facilities in the amount of $3.6 billion.  Energy
          Insurance Bermuda (EIB), Nuclear Mutual Limited (NML) and Nuclear
          Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL) provide $2.75 billion of
          coverage and nuclear insurance pools provide the remainder.  If
          EIB's, NML's and NEIL's losses exceed their available resources,
          I&M would be subject to a total retrospective premium assessment
          of up to $34,000,000.  NRC regulations require that, in the event
          of an accident, whenever the estimated costs of reactor
          stabilization and site decontamination exceed $100,000,000, the
          insurance proceeds must be used, first, to return the reactor to,
          and maintain it in, a safe and stable condition and, second, to
          decontaminate the reactor and reactor station site in accordance
          with a plan approved by the NRC.  The insurers then would
          indemnify I&M for property damage up to $3.35 billion less any
          amounts used for stabilization and decontamination.  The
          remaining $250,000,000, as provided by NEIL (reduced by any
          stabilization and decontamination expenditures over $3.35
          billion), would cover decommissioning costs in excess of funds
          already collected for decommissioning.  See Fuel Supply --
          Nuclear Waste.

            NEIL's extra-expense program provides insurance to cover extra
          costs resulting from a prolonged accidental outage of a nuclear
          unit.  I&M's policy insures against such increased costs up to
          approximately $3,500,000 per week (starting 21 weeks after the
          outage) for one year, $2,800,000 per week for the second and
          third years, or 80% of those amounts per unit if both units are
          down for the same reason.  If NEIL's losses exceed its available
          resources, I&M would be subject to a total retrospective premium
          assessment of up to $7,900,000.

          POTENTIAL UNINSURED LOSSES
            Some potential losses or liabilities may not be insurable or
          the amount of insurance carried may not be sufficient to meet
          potential losses and liabilities, including liabilities relating
          to damage to the Cook Plant and costs of replacement power in the
          event of a nuclear incident at the Cook Plant.  Future losses or
          liabilities which are not completely insured, unless allowed to
          be recovered through rates, could have a material adverse effect
          on results of operation and the financial condition of AEP, I&M
          and other AEP System companies.

          Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            In February 1990, the Supreme Court of Indiana overturned an
          order of the IURC, affirmed by the Indiana Court of Appeals,
          which had awarded I&M the right to serve a General Motors
          Corporation light truck manufacturing facility located in Fort
          Wayne.  In August 1990, the IURC issued an order transferring the
          right to serve the GM facility to an unaffiliated local
          distribution utility.  In October 1990, the local distribution
          utility sued I&M in Indiana under a provision of Indiana law that
          allows the local distribution utility to seek damages equal to
          the gross revenues received by a utility that renders retail
          service in the designated service territory of another utility. 
          On November 30, 1992, the DeKalb Circuit Court granted I&M's
          motion for summary judgment to dismiss the local distribution
          utility's complaint.  The local distribution utility has appealed
          the decision to the Indiana Court of Appeals.  I&M received
          revenues of approximately $29,000,000 from serving the GM
          facility.  It is not clear whether the plaintiffs claim will be
          upheld on appeal because the service was rendered in accordance
          with an IURC order I&M believed in good faith to be valid.

            On April 4, 1991, then Secretary of Labor Lynn Martin
          announced that the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) had issued a
          total of 4,710 citations to operators of 847 coal mines who
          allegedly submitted respirable dust sampling cassettes that had
          been altered so as to remove a portion of the dust.  The
          cassettes were submitted in compliance with DOL regulations which
          require systematic sampling of airborne dust in coal mines and
          submission of the entire cassettes (which include filters for
          collecting dust particulates) to the Mine Safety and Health
          Administration (MSHA) for analysis.  The amount of dust contained
          on the cassette's filter determines an operator's compliance with
          respirable dust standards under the law.  OPCo's Meigs No. 2,
          Meigs No. 31, Martinka, and Windsor Coal mines received 16, 3, 15
          and 2 citations, respectively.  MSHA has assessed civil penalties
          totalling $56,900 for all these citations.  OPCo's samples in
          question involve about 1 percent of the 2,500 air samples that
          OPCo submitted over a 20-month period from 1989 through 1991 to
          the DOL.  OPCo is contesting the citations before the Federal
          Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.  An administrative
          hearing was held before an administrative law judge with respect
          to all affected coal operators.  On July 20, 1993, the
          administrative law judge rendered a decision in this case holding
          that the Secretary of Labor failed to establish that the presence
          of a "white center" on the dust sampling filter indicated
          intentional alteration.  In the case of an unaffiliated mine, the
          administrative law judge ruled on April 20, 1994, that there was
          not an intentional alteration of the dust sampling filter.  The
          Secretary of Labor has appealed to the Mine Safety and Health
          Review Commission the July 20, 1993 and April 20, 1994
          administrative law judge decisions.  All remaining cases,
          including the citations involving OPCo's mines, have been stayed.

            On October 4, 1993, I&M was served with a complaint issued by
          Region V, Federal EPA which alleged violations by Breed Plant of
          the Clean Water Act and proposed a penalty of $70,000, which
          demand was subsequently reduced to $40,000.

            On September 30, 1994, Federal EPA served APCo and Global
          Power Company, an independent contractor retained by APCo, with a
          complaint alleging violations of the Clean Air Act.  The
          complaint is based on alleged violations of the National Emission
          Standard for Asbestos related to an asbestos abatement project at
          APCo's Kanawha River Plant.  The complaint seeks a civil
          administrative penalty of $167,500.  On October 27, 1994, APCo
          and Global jointly filed an answer to this complaint and
          requested both a formal hearing and informal settlement
          conference.

            On February 28, 1994, Ormet Corporation filed a complaint in
          the U.S. District Court, Northern District of West Virginia,
          against AEP, OPCo, the Service Corporation and two of its
          employees, Federal EPA and the Administrator of Federal EPA. 
          Ormet is the operator of a major aluminum reduction plant in Ohio
          and is a customer of OPCo.  See Certain Industrial Contracts. 
          Pursuant to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, OPCo received
          sulfur dioxide emission allowances for its Kammer Plant.  See
          Environmental and Other Matters.  Ormet's complaint seeks a
          declaration that it is the owner of approximately 89% of the
          Phase I and Phase II allowances issued for use by the Kammer
          Plant.  On May 2, 1994, AEP, OPCo and AEP Service Corporation and
          its two employee defendants filed a motion seeking to dismiss the
          complaint filed by Ormet Corporation.  On May 2, 1994, the
          Federal EPA defendants also filed a motion to dismiss.  OPCo
          believes that since it is the owner and operator of Kammer Plant
          and Ormet is a contract power customer, Ormet is not entitled to
          any of the allowances attributable to the Kammer Plant.

            See Item 1 for a discussion of certain environmental and rate
          matters.

            Meigs Mine -- On July 11, 1993, water from an adjoining sealed
          and abandoned mine owned by Southern Ohio Coal Company (SOCCo), a
          mining subsidiary of OPCo, entered Meigs 31 mine, one of two
          mines currently being operated by SOCCo.  Ohio EPA approved a
          plan to pump water from the mine to certain Ohio River
          tributaries under stringent conditions for biological and water
          quality monitoring and restoring the streams after pumping.  On
          July 30, pumping commenced in accordance with the Ohio EPA
          approved plan and, after all water was removed from the mine, the
          mine was returned to service in February 1994.

            In April 1994, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
          reversed the judgement of the U.S. District Court for the
          Southern District of Ohio which had granted a preliminary
          injunction to SOCCo preventing Federal EPA and the Federal Office
          of Surface Mining, Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) from
          interfering with the removal of water from SOCCo's Meigs 31 mine.

            The West Virginia Division of Environmental Protection (West
          Virginia DEP) had proposed fining SOCCo $1,800,000 for violations
          of West Virginia Water Quality Standards and permitting
          requirements alleged to have resulted from the release of mine
          water into the Ohio River.  As a result of the West Virginia DEP
          proposing to fine SOCCo, SOCCo filed an action on June 1, 1994 in
          the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of West
          Virginia seeking a determination that the state of West Virginia
          has no jurisdiction to impose penalties with respect to the mine
          water discharges.  On July 27, 1994, West Virginia filed an
          answer to SOCCo's complaint disputing SOCCo's entitlement to a
          declaratory judgement and asserting a counterclaim seeking an
          award of $2,550,000 in civil penalties, reimbursement of
          monitoring costs and compensation for unspecified natural
          resources damage.  On October 27, 1994, SOCCo filed a motion for
          summary judgement or alternatively to dismiss West Virginia's
          counterclaim.

            SOCCo is currently negotiating a resolution of federal and
          West Virginia claims.  The resolution of these legal actions is
          not expected to have a material adverse impact on results of
          operations.

            Kammer Plant -- In August 1994, Federal EPA issued a Notice of
          Violation (NOV) to OPCo alleging that its Kammer Plant has been
          operating in violation of applicable federally enforceable air
          pollution control requirements for sulfur dioxide since January
          1, 1989.  The Clean Air Act provides that Federal EPA may
          commence a civil action for injunctive relief and/or civil
          penalties of up to $25,000 per day for each day of violation.  On
          November 15, 1994, a civil complaint containing the allegations
          included in the NOV was filed by Federal EPA against OPCo in the
          U.S. District Court for the Northern District of West Virginia. 
          At that time, a consent decree entered into by Federal EPA and
          OPCo specifying compliance by the Kammer Plant with the federally
          enforceable sulfur dioxide emission limit by September 1, 1995
          was lodged with the court.  On January 23, 1995, the consent
          decree was entered by the court.

            The portion of the NOV relating to penalties will be addressed
          independently.  At this time, management is unable to estimate
          the amount of any civil penalties that may be imposed by Federal
          EPA.  It is not anticipated that the ultimate resolution of this
          matter will have a material adverse impact on results of
          operations.

          Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEP, APCO, I&M AND OPCO.  None.

            AEGCO, CSPCO AND KEPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction
          J(2)(c).
                                 --------------------

          EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS

          AEP

            The following persons are, or may be deemed, executive
          officers of AEP.  Their ages are given as of March 15, 1995.

          
          ----------
          (a)  All of the executive officers listed above have been
               employed by the Service Corporation or System companies in
               various capacities (AEP, as such, has no employees) during
               the past five years, except E. Linn Draper, Jr. who was
               Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer
               of Gulf States Utilities Company from 1987 until 1992 when
               he joined AEP and the Service Corporation.  All of the above
               officers are appointed annually for a one-year term by the
               board of directors of AEP, the board of directors of the
               Service Corporation, or both, as the case may be.

          APCO

            The names of the executive officers of APCo, the positions
          they hold with APCo, their ages as of March 15, 1995, and a brief
          account of their business experience during the past five years
          appears below.  The directors and executive officers of APCo are
          elected annually to serve a one-year term.

          
          ---------------
          (a)  Positions are with APCo unless otherwise indicated.

          OPCO

            The names of the executive officers of OPCo, the positions
          they hold with OPCo, their ages as of March 15, 1995, and a brief
          account of their business experience during the past five years
          appear below.  The directors and executive officers of OPCo are
          elected annually to serve a one-year term.

          
          ---------------
          (a)  Positions are with OPCo unless otherwise indicated.
          PART II ---------------------------------------------------------

          Item 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS' COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
                   STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEP.  AEP Common Stock is traded principally on the New York
          Stock Exchange.  The following table sets forth for the calendar
          periods indicated the high and low sales prices for the Common
          Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape
          and the amount of cash dividends paid per share of Common Stock.

          
          ---------------
          (1)  See Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
               Statements of AEP for information regarding restrictions on
               payment of dividends.

            At December 31, 1994, AEP had approximately 183,000
          shareholders of record.

            AEGCO, APCO, CSPCO, I&M, KEPCO AND OPCO.  The information
          required by this item is not applicable as the common stock of
          all these companies is held solely by AEP.

          Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEGCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(a).

            AEP.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Selected Consolidated
          Financial Data in the AEP 1994 Annual Report (for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1994).

            APCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Selected Consolidated
          Financial Data in the APCo 1994 Annual Report (for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1994).

            CSPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(a).

            I&M.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Selected Consolidated
          Financial Data in the I&M 1994 Annual Report (for the fiscal year
          ended December 31, 1994).
            KEPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(a).

            OPCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Selected Consolidated
          Financial Data in the OPCo 1994 Annual Report (for the fiscal
          year ended December 31, 1994).

          Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF
                   OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEGCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(a). Management's
          narrative analysis of the results of operations and other
          information required by Instruction J(2)(a) is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Management's Narrative
          Analysis of Results of Operations in the AEGCo 1994 Annual Report
          (for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

            AEP.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Management's Discussion
          and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in
          the AEP 1994 Annual Report (for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1994).

            APCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Management's Discussion
          and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in
          the APCo 1994 Annual Report (for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1994).

            CSPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(a). Management's
          narrative analysis of the results of operations and other
          information required by Instruction J(2)(a) is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Management's Narrative
          Analysis of Results of Operations in the CSPCo 1994 Annual Report
          (for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

            I&M.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Management's Discussion
          and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in
          the I&M 1994 Annual Report (for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1994).

            KEPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(a). Management's
          narrative analysis of the results of operations and other
          information required by Instruction J(2)(a) is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Management's Narrative
          Analysis of Results of Operations in the KEPCo 1994 Annual Report
          (for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994).

            OPCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Management's Discussion
          and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition in
          the OPCo 1994 Annual Report (for the fiscal year ended December
          31, 1994).

          Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEGCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the financial statements and supplementary
          data described under Item 14 herein.
            AEP.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the financial statements and supplementary
          data described under Item 14 herein.

            APCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the financial statements and supplementary
          data described under Item 14 herein.

            CSPCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated 
          herein by reference to the financial statements and supplementary
          data described under Item 14 herein.

            I&M.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the financial statements and supplementary
          data described under Item 14 herein.

            KEPCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the financial statements and supplementary
          data described under Item 14 herein.

            OPCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the financial statements and supplementary
          data described under Item 14 herein.

          Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
                   ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEGCO, AEP, APCO, CSPCO, I&M, KEPCO AND OPCO.  None.
          

          PART III --------------------------------------------------------

          Item 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTS
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEGCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).

            AEP.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Nominees for Director
          and Share Ownership of Directors and Executive Officers of the
          definitive proxy statement of AEP, dated March 9, 1995, for the
          1995 annual meeting of shareholders.  Reference also is made to
          the information under the caption Executive Officers of the
          Registrants in Part I of this report.

            APCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Election of Directors
          of the definitive information statement of APCo for the 1995
          annual meeting of stockholders, to be filed within 120 days after
          December 31, 1994.  Reference also is made to the information
          under the caption Executive Officers of the Registrants in Part I
          of this report.

            CSPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).

            I&M.  The names of the directors and executive officers of
          I&M, the positions they hold with I&M, their ages as of March 15,
          1995, and a brief account of their business experience during the
          past five years appear below.  The directors and executive
          officers of I&M are elected annually to serve a one-year term.

          
          (a)  Positions are with I&M unless otherwise indicated.
          (b)  Dr. Draper is a director of VECTRA Technologies, Inc., Mr.
               Lhota is a director of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
               and Mr. Menge is a director of Fort Wayne National
               Corporation.
          (c)  Drs. Draper and Markowsky and Messrs. DeMaria, Lhota and
               Maloney are directors of AEGCo, APCo, CSPCo, KEPCo and OPCo. 
               Dr. Draper and Messrs. DeMaria and Maloney are also
               directors of AEP.

            KEPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).

            OPCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under the heading Election of
          Directors of the definitive information statement of OPCo for the
          1995 annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days
          after December 31, 1994.  Reference also is made to the
          information under the caption Executive Officers of the
          Registrants in Part I of this report.

          Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEGCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).

            AEP.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Compensation of
          Directors, Executive Compensation and the performance graph of
          the definitive proxy statement of AEP, dated March 9, 1995, for
          the 1995 annual meeting of shareholders.

            APCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Executive Compensation
          of the definitive information statement of APCo for the 1995
          annual meeting of stockholders, to be filed within 120 days after
          December 31, 1994.

            CSPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).

            KEPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).
            OPCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Executive Compensation
          of the definitive information statement of OPCo for the 1995
          annual meeting of shareholders, to be filed within 120 days after
          December 31, 1994.

            I&M.  Certain executive officers of I&M are employees of the
          Service Corporation.  The salaries of these executive officers
          are paid by the Service Corporation and a portion of their
          salaries has been allocated and charged to I&M.  The following
          table shows for 1994, 1993 and 1992 the compensation earned from
          all AEP System companies by the chief executive officer and four
          other most highly compensated executive officers (as defined by
          regulations of the SEC) of I&M at December 31, 1994.

          SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

          
          ---------------
          (1)  Reflects payments under the Management Incentive
               Compensation Plan (MICP).  Amounts for 1994 are estimates
               but should not change significantly.  For 1994 and 1993,
               these amounts include both cash paid and a portion deferred
               in the form of restricted stock units.  These units are paid
               out in cash after three years based on the price of AEP
               Common Stock at that time.  Dividend equivalents are paid
               during the three-year period.  At December 31, 1994, the
               deferred amounts (included in the above table) and accrued
               dividends for Dr. Draper, Messrs. DeMaria, Maloney and Lhota
               and Dr. Markowsky were equivalent to 2,204, 1,109, 1,080,
               1,004 and 956 units having values of $72,456, $36,458,
               $35,505, $33,006 and $31,428, respectively, based upon a
               $32-7/8 per share closing price of AEP's Common Stock as
               reported on the New York Stock Exchange.  For 1992, MICP
               payments were made entirely in cash.
          (2)  Reflects payments under the Performance Share Incentive Plan
               (which became effective January 1, 1994) for the one-year
               transition performance period ending December 31, 1994.  Dr.
               Draper, Messrs. DeMaria, Maloney and Lhota and Dr. Markowsky
               received 2,050, 881, 867, 812 and 775 shares of AEP Common
               Stock, respectively, representing one-half of their
               payments.  See the discussion below for additional
               information.
          (3)  For 1994, includes (i) employer matching contributions under
               the AEP System Employees Savings Plan: $4,500 for each of
               the named executive officers; (ii) employer matching
               contributions under the AEP System Supplemental Savings Plan
               (which became effective January 1, 1994), a non-qualified
               plan designed to supplement the AEP Savings Plan: Dr.
               Draper, $14,100; Mr. DeMaria, $4,650; Mr. Maloney, $4,500;
               Mr. Lhota, $3,900; and Dr. Markowsky, $3,510; and (iii)
               subsidiary companies director fees:  Dr. Draper, $10,785;
               Mr. DeMaria, $9,600; Mr. Maloney, $10,745; Mr. Lhota,
               $10,785; and Dr. Markowsky, $6,745.

          Long-Term Incentive Plans -- Awards In 1994

            Each of the awards set forth below constitutes a grant of
          performance share units, which represent units equivalent to
          shares of AEP Common Stock, pursuant to AEP's Performance Share
          Incentive Plan.  Since it is not possible to predict future
          dividends and the price of AEP Common Stock, credits of
          performance share units in amounts equal to the dividends that
          would have been paid if the performance share units were granted
          in the form of shares of AEP Common Stock are not included in the
          table.

            The ability to earn performance share units is tied to
          achieving specified levels of total shareowner return (TSR)
          relative to the S&P Electric Utility Index. Notwithstanding AEP's
          TSR ranking, no performance share units are earned unless AEP
          shareowners realize a positive TSR over the relevant three-year
          performance period.  The Human Resources Committee may, at its
          discretion, reduce the number of performance share units
          otherwise earned.  In accordance with the performance goals
          established for the periods set forth below, the threshold,
          target and maximum awards are equal to 25%, 100% and 200%,
          respectively, of the performance share units held.  No payment
          will be made for performance below the threshold.

            Payment of awards earned for the one-year transition
          performance period ending December 31, 1994 were made 50% in cash
          and 50% in AEP Common Stock.  For subsequent performance periods,
          payments of earned awards are deferred in the form of restricted
          stock units (equivalent to shares of AEP Common Stock) until the
          officer has met the equivalent stock ownership target.  Once
          officers meet and maintain their respective targets, they may
          elect either to continue to defer or to receive further earned
          awards in cash and/or AEP Common Stock.
          

          
          ---------------
          (1)  For the 1994 transition performance period, the actual
               number of performance share units earned was:  Dr. Draper
               4,100; Mr. DeMaria 1,761; Mr. Maloney 1,734; Mr. Lhota
               1,624; and Dr. Markowsky 1,550 (see Summary Compensation
               Table for the cash value of these payouts).

             Retirement Benefits

            The American Electric Power System Retirement Plan provides
          pensions for all employees of AEP System companies (except for
          employees covered by certain collective bargaining agreements),
          including the executive officers of I&M.  The Retirement Plan is
          a noncontributory defined benefit plan.

            The following table shows the approximate annual annuities
          under the Retirement Plan that would be payable to employees in
          certain higher salary classifications, assuming retirement at age
          65 after various periods of service.  The amounts shown in the
          table are the straight life annuities payable under the Plan
          without reduction for the joint and survivor annuity.  Retirement
          benefits listed in the table are not subject to any deduction for
          Social Security or other offset amounts.  The retirement annuity
          is reduced 3% per year in the case of retirement between ages 60
          and 62 and further reduced 6% per year in the case of retirement
          between ages 55 and 60.  If an employee retires after age 62,
          there is no reduction in the retirement annuity.

             Pension Plan Table

          

                           Compensation upon which retirement benefits are 
          based consists of the average of the 36 consecutive months of the 
          employee's highest salary, as listed in the Summary Compensation 
          Table, out of the employee's most recent 10 years of service.  
          As of December 31, 1994, the number of full years of service 
          credited under the Retirement Plan to each of the executive 
          officers of the Company named in the Summary Compensation Table 
          were as follows:  Dr. Draper, two years; Mr. DeMaria, 35 years; 
          Mr. Maloney, 39 years; Mr. Lhota, 30 years; and Dr. Markowsky, 
          23 years.

            Dr. Draper's employment agreement described below provides him
          with a supplemental retirement annuity that credits him with 24
          years of service in addition to his years of service credited
          under the Retirement Plan less his actual pension entitlement
          under the Retirement Plan and any pension entitlements from prior
          employers.

            AEP has determined to pay supplemental retirement benefits to
          23 AEP System employees (including Messrs. DeMaria, Maloney and
          Lhota and Dr. Markowsky) whose pensions may be adversely affected
          by amendments to the Retirement Plan made as a result of the Tax
          Reform Act of 1986.  Such payments, if any, will be equal to any
          reduction occurring because of such amendments.  Assuming
          retirement in 1995 of the executive officers named in the Summary
          Compensation Table, none would be eligible to receive
          supplemental benefits. 

            AEP made available a voluntary deferred-compensation program
          in 1982 and 1986, which permitted certain executive employees of
          AEP System companies to defer receipt of a portion of their
          salaries.  Under this program, an executive was able to defer up
          to 10% or 15% annually (depending on the terms of the program
          offered), over a four-year period, of his or her salary, and
          receive supplemental retirement or survivor benefit payments over
          a 15-year period.  The amount of supplemental retirement payments
          received is dependent upon the amount deferred, age at the time
          the deferral election was made, and number of years until the
          executive retires.  The following table sets forth, for the
          executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table, the
          amounts of annual deferrals and, assuming retirement at age 65,
          annual supplemental retirement payments under the 1982 and 1986
          programs.

          

             Employment Agreement

            Dr. Draper has a contract with AEP and the Service Corporation
          which provides for his employment for an initial term from no
          later than March 15, 1992 until March 15, 1997.  Dr. Draper
          commenced his employment with AEP and the Service Corporation on
          March 1, 1992.  AEP or the Service Corporation may terminate the
          contract at any time and, if this is done for reasons other than
          cause and other than as a result of Dr. Draper's death or
          permanent disability, the Service Corporation must pay Dr.
          Draper's then base salary through March 15, 1997, less any
          amounts received by Dr. Draper from other employment.

                                   ---------------

            Directors of I&M receive a fee of $100 for each meeting of the
          Board of Directors attended in addition to their salaries.

                                   ---------------

            The AEP System is an integrated electric utility system and,
          as a result, the member companies of the AEP System have
          contractual, financial and other business relationships with the
          other member companies, such as participation in the AEP System
          savings and retirement plans and tax returns, sales of
          electricity, transportation and handling of fuel, sales or
          rentals of property and interest or dividend payments on the
          securities held by the companies' respective parents.

          Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
                   MANAGEMENT
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEGCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).

            AEP.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Share Ownership of
          Directors and Executive Officers of the definitive proxy
          statement of AEP, dated March 9, 1995, for the 1995 annual
          meeting of shareholders.

            APCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Share Ownership of
          Directors and Executive Officers in the definitive information
          statement of APCo for the 1995 annual meeting of stockholders, to
          be filed within 120 days after December 31, 1994.

            CSPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).

            I&M.  All 1,400,000 outstanding shares of Common Stock, no par
          value, of I&M are directly and beneficially held by AEP.  Holders
          of the Cumulative Preferred Stock of I&M generally have no voting
          rights, except with respect to certain corporate actions and in
          the event of certain defaults in the payment of dividends on such
          shares.

            The table below shows the number of shares of AEP Common Stock
          that were beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, as of
          December 31, 1994, by each director and nominee of I&M and each
          of the executive officers of I&M named in the summary
          compensation table, and by all directors and executive officers
          of I&M as a group.  It is based on information provided to I&M by
          such persons. No such person owns any shares of any series of the
          Cumulative Preferred Stock of I&M.  Unless otherwise noted, each
          person has sole voting power and investment power over the number
          of shares of AEP Common Stock set forth opposite his name. 
          Fractions of shares have been rounded to the nearest whole share.

          
          ---------------
          (a)  The amounts include shares held by the trustee of the AEP
               Employees Savings Plan, over which directors, nominees and
               executive officers have voting power, but the
               investment/disposition power is subject to the terms of such
               Plan, as follows:  Mr. Bailey, 1,005 shares; Mr. DeMaria,
               2,398 shares; Mr. D'Onofrio, 3,251 shares; Mr. Lhota, 5,986
               shares; Mr. Maloney, 2,464 shares; Mr. Menge, 2,925 shares;
               Mr. Potter, 2,741 shares; Mr. Trenary, 165 shares; Mr.
               Walters, 4,197 shares; and all directors and executive
               officers as a group, 33,608 shares.  Messrs. Bailey's,
               DeMaria's, D'Onofrio's, Lhota's, Maloney's, Menge's,
               Potter's, Trenary's and Walter's holdings include 44, 83,
               59, 60, 85, 62, 41, 41 and 45 shares, respectively; and the
               holdings of all directors and executive officers as a group
               include 633 shares, each held by the trustee of the AEP
               Employee Stock Ownership Plan, over which shares such
               persons have sole voting power, but the
               investment/disposition power is subject to the terms of such
               Plan.
          (b)  Includes shares with respect to which such directors,
               nominees and executive officers share voting and investment
               power as follows: Mr. DeMaria, 3,624 shares; Mr. D'Onofrio,
               500 shares; Dr. Draper, 124 shares; Mr. Lhota, 1,368 shares;
               Mr. Maloney, 1,700 shares; Mr. Menge, 24 shares; and Mr.
               Potter, 13 shares; and all directors and executive officers
               as a group, 4,956 shares.  Mr. DeMaria disclaims beneficial
               ownership of 2,392 shares.
          (c)  85,231 shares in the American Electric Power System
               Educational Trust Fund, over which Messrs. DeMaria, Lhota
               and Maloney share voting and investment power as trustees
               (they disclaim beneficial ownership of such shares), are not
               included in their individual totals, but are included in the
               group total.
          (d)  Represents less than 1 percent of the total number of shares
               outstanding on December 31, 1994.

            KEPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction J(2)(c).

            OPCO.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Share Ownership of
          Directors and Executive Officers in the definitive information
          statement of OPCo for the 1995 annual meeting of shareholders, to
          be filed within 120 days after December 31, 1994.

          Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

            AEP.  The information required by this item is incorporated
          herein by reference to the material under Transactions With
          Management of the definitive proxy statement of AEP, dated March
          9, 1995, for the 1995 annual meeting of shareholders.

            APCO, I&M AND OPCO.  None.

            AEGCO, CSPCO, AND KEPCO.  Omitted pursuant to Instruction
          J(2)(c).
          

          PART IV  --------------------------------------------------------

          Item 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
                   FORM 8-K
          -----------------------------------------------------------------

          (a)  The following documents are filed as a part of this report:

          

          (b)  No Reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended
               December 31, 1994.
          

                                      SIGNATURES


            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED
          THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED,
          THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.  THE SIGNATURE OF THE UNDERSIGNED
          COMPANY SHALL BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING
          REFERENCE TO SUCH COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

                                       AEP Generating Company


                                          By:  /s/ G. P. Maloney
                                             ----------------------------
                                            (G. P. MALONEY, VICE PRESIDENT)

          Date:  March 23, 1995

            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
          1934, THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS
          ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE
          DATES INDICATED.  THE SIGNATURE OF EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED SHALL
          BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING REFERENCE TO THE
          ABOVE-NAMED COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

               SIGNATURE                  TITLE                 DATE
               ---------                  -----                 ----
          (I) PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

               *E. Linn Draper, Jr.  President, Chief
                                     Executive Officer
                                       and Director

          (II) PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

               /s/ G. P. Maloney     Vice President         March 23, 1995
            -----------------------   and Director
               (G. P. MALONEY)

          (III) PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

               /s/ P. J. DeMaria     Vice President,        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------   Treasurer and
               (P. J. DEMARIA)           Director

          (IV) A MAJORITY OF THE DIRECTORS:

               *Henry Fayne
               *John R. Jones, III
               *Wm. J. Lhota
               *James J. Markowsky

          *By:   /s/ G. P. Maloney                          March 23, 1995
            -----------------------
          (G. P. MALONEY, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
          

                                      SIGNATURES


            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED
          THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED,
          THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                     American Electric Power Company, Inc.


                                       By:  /s/ G. P. Maloney
                                          ----------------------------
                                            (G. P. MALONEY, VICE PRESIDENT)

          Date:  March 23, 1995

            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
          1934, THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS
          ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE
          DATES INDICATED.

               SIGNATURE                  TITLE                 DATE
               ---------                  -----                 ----
          (I) PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

               *E. Linn Draper, Jr.  Chairman of the
                                     Board, President,
                                     Chief Executive
                                       Officer and
                                         Director

          (II) PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

               /s/ G. P. Maloney     Vice President,        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------   Secretary and
               (G. P. MALONEY)          Director

          (III) PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

               /s/ P. J. DeMaria      Treasurer and      March 23, 1995
            -----------------------     Director
               (P. J. DEMARIA)

          (IV) A MAJORITY OF THE DIRECTORS:

               *Robert M. Duncan
               *Arthur G. Hansen
               *Lester A. Hudson, Jr.
               *Angus E. Peyton
               *Toy F. Reid
               *Donald G. Smith
               *Linda Gillespie Stuntz
               *Morris Tanenbaum
               *Ann Haymond Zwinger

          *By:   /s/ G. P. Maloney                          March 23, 1995
            -----------------------
          (G. P. MALONEY, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
          

                                      SIGNATURES


            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED
          THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED,
          THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.  THE SIGNATURE OF THE UNDERSIGNED
          COMPANY SHALL BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING
          REFERENCE TO SUCH COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

                                       Appalachian Power Company


                                          By:  /s/ G. P. Maloney
                                             ----------------------------
                                            (G. P. MALONEY, VICE PRESIDENT)

          Date:  March 23, 1995

            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
          1934, THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS
          ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE
          DATES INDICATED.  THE SIGNATURE OF EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED SHALL
          BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING REFERENCE TO THE
          ABOVE-NAMED COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

               SIGNATURE                  TITLE                 DATE
               ---------                  -----                 ----
          (I) PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

               *E. Linn Draper, Jr.   Chairman of the
                                        Board, Chief
                                     Executive Officer
                                        and Director

          (II) PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

               /s/ G. P. Maloney      Vice President        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------    and Director
               (G. P. MALONEY)

          (III) PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

               /s/ P. J. DeMaria     Vice President,        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------   Treasurer and
               (P. J. DEMARIA)           Director

          (IV) A MAJORITY OF THE DIRECTORS:

               *Henry Fayne
               *Luke M. Feck
               *Wm. J. Lhota
               *James J. Markowsky
               *J. H. Vipperman

          *By:   /s/ G. P. Maloney                          March 23, 1995
            -----------------------
          (G. P. MALONEY, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
          

                                      SIGNATURES


            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED
          THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED,
          THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.  THE SIGNATURE OF THE UNDERSIGNED
          COMPANY SHALL BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING
          REFERENCE TO SUCH COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

                                       Columbus Southern Power Company


                                          By:  /s/ G. P. Maloney
                                             ----------------------------
                                            (G. P. MALONEY, VICE PRESIDENT)

          Date:  March 23, 1995

            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
          1934, THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS
          ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE
          DATES INDICATED.  THE SIGNATURE OF EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED SHALL
          BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING REFERENCE TO THE
          ABOVE-NAMED COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

               SIGNATURE                  TITLE                 DATE
               ---------                  -----                 ----
          (I) PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

               *E. Linn Draper, Jr.   Chairman of the
                                        Board, Chief
                                     Executive Officer
                                        and Director

          (II) PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

               /s/ G. P. Maloney      Vice President        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------    and Director
               (G. P. MALONEY)

          (III) PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

               /s/ P. J. DeMaria     Vice President,        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------   Treasurer and
               (P. J. DEMARIA)           Director

          (IV) A MAJORITY OF THE DIRECTORS:

               *C. A. Erikson
               *Henry Fayne
               *Wm. J. Lhota
               *James J. Markowsky

          *By:   /s/ G. P. Maloney                          March 23, 1995
            -----------------------
          (G. P. MALONEY, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
          

                                      SIGNATURES


            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED
          THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED,
          THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.  THE SIGNATURE OF THE UNDERSIGNED
          COMPANY SHALL BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING
          REFERENCE TO SUCH COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

                                       Indiana Michigan Power Company


                                          By:  /s/ G. P. Maloney
                                             ----------------------------
                                            (G. P. MALONEY, VICE PRESIDENT)

          Date:  March 23, 1995

            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
          1934, THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS
          ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE
          DATES INDICATED.  THE SIGNATURE OF EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED SHALL
          BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING REFERENCE TO THE
          ABOVE-NAMED COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

               SIGNATURE                  TITLE                 DATE
               ---------                  -----                 ----
          (I) PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

               *E. Linn Draper, Jr.   Chairman of the
                                        Board, Chief
                                     Executive Officer
                                        and Director

          (II) PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

               /s/ G. P. Maloney      Vice President        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------    and Director
               (G. P. MALONEY)

          (III) PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

               /s/ P. J. DeMaria     Vice President,        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------   Treasurer and
               (P. J. DEMARIA)           Director

          (IV) A MAJORITY OF THE DIRECTORS:

               *Mark A. Bailey
               *W. N. D'Onofrio
               *Wm. J. Lhota
               *James J. Markowsky
               *Richard C. Menge
               *A. H. Potter
               *D. M. Trenary
               *W. E. Walters

          *By:   /s/ G. P. Maloney                          March 23, 1995
            -----------------------
          (G. P. MALONEY, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
          

                                      SIGNATURES


            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED
          THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED,
          THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.  THE SIGNATURE OF THE UNDERSIGNED
          COMPANY SHALL BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING
          REFERENCE TO SUCH COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

                                       Kentucky Power Company


                                          By:  /s/ G. P. Maloney
                                             ----------------------------
                                            (G. P. MALONEY, VICE PRESIDENT)

          Date:  March 23, 1995

            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
          1934, THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS
          ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE
          DATES INDICATED.  THE SIGNATURE OF EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED SHALL
          BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING REFERENCE TO THE
          ABOVE-NAMED COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

               SIGNATURE                  TITLE                 DATE
               ---------                  -----                 ----
          (I) PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

               *E. Linn Draper, Jr.   Chairman of the
                                        Board, Chief
                                     Executive Officer
                                        and Director

          (II) PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

               /s/ G. P. Maloney      Vice President        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------    and Director
               (G. P. MALONEY)

          (III) PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

               /s/ P. J. DeMaria     Vice President,        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------   Treasurer and
               (P. J. DEMARIA)           Director

          (IV) A MAJORITY OF THE DIRECTORS:

               *C. R. Boyle, III
               *Wm. J. Lhota
               *James J. Markowsky
               *Ronald A. Petti

          *By:   /s/ G. P. Maloney                          March 23, 1995
            -----------------------
          (G. P. MALONEY, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
          

                                      SIGNATURES


            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED
          THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED,
          THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.  THE SIGNATURE OF THE UNDERSIGNED
          COMPANY SHALL BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING
          REFERENCE TO SUCH COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

                                       Ohio Power Company


                                          By:  /s/ G. P. Maloney
                                             ----------------------------
                                            (G. P. MALONEY, VICE PRESIDENT)

          Date:  March 23, 1995

            PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
          1934, THIS REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS
          ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE
          DATES INDICATED.  THE SIGNATURE OF EACH OF THE UNDERSIGNED SHALL
          BE DEEMED TO RELATE ONLY TO MATTERS HAVING REFERENCE TO THE
          ABOVE-NAMED COMPANY AND ANY SUBSIDIARIES THEREOF.

               SIGNATURE                  TITLE                 DATE
               ---------                  -----                 ----
          (I) PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

               *E. Linn Draper, Jr.   Chairman of the
                                        Board, Chief
                                     Executive Officer
                                        and Director

          (II) PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER:

               /s/ G. P. Maloney      Vice President        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------    and Director
               (G. P. MALONEY)

          (III) PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER:

               /s/ P. J. DeMaria     Vice President,        March 23, 1995
            -----------------------   Treasurer and
               (P. J. DEMARIA)          Director

          (IV) A MAJORITY OF THE DIRECTORS:

               *C. A. Erikson
               *Henry Fayne
               *Wm. J. Lhota
               *James J. Markowsky

          *By:   /s/ G. P. Maloney                          March 23, 1995
            -----------------------
          (G. P. MALONEY, ATTORNEY-IN-FACT)
          
          

          

          
                             INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


          American Electric Power Company, Inc. and Subsidiaries:

            We have audited the consolidated financial statements of
          American Electric Power Company, Inc. and its subsidiaries and
          the financial statements of certain of its subsidiaries, listed
          in Item 14 herein, as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and for each
          of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994, and
          have issued our reports thereon dated February 21, 1995; such
          financial statements and reports are included in your respective
          1994 Annual Report to Shareowners and are incorporated herein by
          reference.  Our audits also included the financial statement
          schedules of American Electric Power Company, Inc. and its
          subsidiaries and of certain of its subsidiaries, listed in Item
          14.  These financial statement schedules are the responsibility
          of the respective Company's management.  Our responsibility is to
          express an opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, such
          financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the
          corresponding basic financial statements taken as a whole,
          present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
          therein.


          /s/ Deloitte & Touche

          Deloitte & Touche LLP
          Columbus, Ohio
          February 21, 1995
     
     
     
     
     
     
                                          ---------------

          ++Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term
          debt of the registrants included in the financial statements of
          registrants filed herewith have been omitted because the total
          amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of
          the total assets of registrants.  The registrants hereby agree to
          furnish a copy of any such omitted instrument to the SEC upon
          request.


