Item 1. Business

ABOUT GENERAL ELECTRIC

We are a leading global high-tech industrial company. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation and oil and gas production equipment to medical imaging, financing and industrial products, we serve customers in over 180 countries and employ approximately 283,000 people worldwide.

Manufacturing operations are carried out at 162 manufacturing plants located in 34 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and at 297 manufacturing plants located in 41 other countries.

Since our incorporation in 1892, we have developed or acquired new technologies and services that have considerably broadened and changed the scope of our activities.

OUR INDUSTRIAL OPERATING SEGMENTS

OUR FINANCIAL SERVICES OPERATING SEGMENT

Capital

Business, operation and financial overviews for our operating segments are provided in the Segment Operations section within the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) section.

In all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The businesses in which GE Capital engages are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions.

As a diverse global company, we are affected by world economies, instability in certain regions, commodity prices, such as the price of oil, foreign currency volatility and policies regarding trade and imports. Other factors impacting our business include:

•

product development cycles for many of our products are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success,

•

research and development expenditures are important to our business,

•

many of our products are subject to a number of regulatory standards and

•

changing end markets, including shifts in energy sources and demand and the impact of technology changes. In particular, Power markets have been particularly challenging as

significant overcapacity in the industry has resulted in decreased utilization of our power equipment, lower market penetration, increased price concessions, uncertain timing of deal closures due to financing and the complexities of working in emerging markets as well as increasing energy efficiency and renewable energy penetration. See the Power segment section within MD&A for further information.

At year-end


, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 283,000 people, of whom approximately 97,000 were employed in the United States.

Approximately 9,900 GE and GE affiliate manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a union. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC.

In June 2015, GE negotiated four-year collective bargaining agreements with most of its U.S. unions (including the IUE-CWA) and these agreements are scheduled to terminate in June 2019. GE will hold negotiations to enter into new agreements that month. While the outcome of the 2019 negotiations cannot be predicted, GE’s recent past negotiations have resulted in agreements that provide employees with good wages and benefits while addressing the competitive realities facing GE.

General Electric’s address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain executive offices at 41 Farnsworth Street, Boston, MA 02210.


GE’s Internet address at www.ge.com, Investor Relations website at www.ge.com/investor-relations and our corporate blog at www.gereports.com, as well as GE’s Facebook page, Twitter accounts and other social media, including @GE_Reports, contain a significant amount of information about GE, including financial and other information for investors. GE encourages investors to visit these websites from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. Additional information on non-financial matters, including environmental and social matters and our integrity policies, is available at www.ge.com/sustainability. Website references in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the websites. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/investor-relations/events-reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 41 Farnsworth Street, Boston, MA 02210. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov.