Item 1. Business



General



Unless otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms “GE,” “GECS” and “GECC” on the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Also, unless otherwise indicated by the context, “General Electric” means the parent company, General Electric Company (the Company).



General Electric’s address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828-0001.



We are one of the largest and most diversified technology and financial services corporations in the world. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing, and household appliances to medical imaging, business and consumer financing and industrial products, we serve customers in more than 100 countries and employ approximately 301,000 people worldwide. Prior to January 28, 2011, we also operated a media company, NBC Universal, Inc. (NBCU). Effective January 28, 2011, we hold a 49% interest in a media entity that includes the NBC Universal businesses. See the GE Corporate Items and Eliminations section of this Item for additional information. Since our incorporation in 1892, we have developed or acquired new technologies and services that have broadened and changed considerably the scope of our activities.



In virtually all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The NBC Television Network, which became part of the media entity referred to above as of January 28, 2011, is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network. NBC Universal also competes with other film and television programming producers and distributors, cable/satellite television networks and theme park operators. The businesses in which GECS engages are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts, investment banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies and finance companies associated with manufacturers.



On February 22, 2012, we merged our wholly-owned subsidiary, GECS, with and into GECS’ wholly-owned subsidiary, GECC.  The merger simplified our financial services’ corporate structure by consolidating financial services entities and assets within our organization and simplifying Securities and Exchange Commission and regulatory reporting. Upon the merger, GECC became the surviving corporation and assumed all of GECS’ rights and obligations and became wholly-owned directly by General Electric. Our financial services segment, GE Capital, will continue to comprise the continuing operations of GECC, which now includes the run-off insurance operations previously held and managed in GECS. References to GECS, GECC and the GE Capital segment in this Form 10-K Report relate to the entities or segment as they existed during 2011 and do not reflect the February 22, 2012 merger.



(3)





Operating Segments



Segment revenue and profit information and additional financial data and commentary on recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.



Operating businesses that are reported as segments include Energy Infrastructure, Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, Home & Business Solutions and GE Capital. Net earnings of GECS and the effect of transactions between segments are eliminated to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of each of our operating segments follows.



Effective January 1, 2011, we reorganized the former Technology Infrastructure segment into three segments – Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. The results of the Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation businesses were unaffected by this reorganization and we began reporting these as separate segments beginning with our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011. Results for 2011 and prior periods in this Form 10-K Report are reported on this basis.



On February 22, 2012, we merged our wholly-owned subsidiary, GECS, with and into GECS’ wholly-owned subsidiary, GECC.  Our financial services segment, GE Capital, will continue to comprise the continuing operations of GECC, which now includes the run-off insurance operations previously held and managed in GECS. References to the GE Capital segment in this Form 10-K Report relate to the segment as it existed during 2011 and does not reflect the February 22, 2012 merger.



We also continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information for certain businesses within the segments.



(4)



Energy Infrastructure



Energy Infrastructure (29.7%, 25.1% and 26.3% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) is a leader in the field of development, implementation and improvement of products and technologies that harness resources such as wind, oil, gas and water.



Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.



To better serve Oil & Gas customers, Energy’s Measurement & Control business was moved to Oil & Gas in October 2011. Measurement & Control addresses sensor-based measurement, inspection, asset condition monitoring and controls needs. In addition, three business units from Energy’s acquisition of Dresser were also transferred to Oil & Gas in 2011.  Prior period results for Energy and Oil & Gas are presented on this basis.



Energy





Energy also offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal water systems including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals, water purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid handling equipment for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems, including mobile treatment systems and desalination processes.



On February 1, 2011, March 2, 2011 and September 2, 2011, we completed the acquisitions of Dresser, Inc., Lineage Power Holdings, Inc. (Lineage Power) and Converteam, respectively.  The Dresser acquisition broadens the product portfolio with technologies for gas engines. The acquisition of Lineage Power, a provider of high-efficiency power conversion infrastructure technology and services for the telecommunications and datacenter industries, continues the expansion of Energy’s offerings from the electric grid to datacenters, cell towers, routers, servers and circuit board electronics. Converteam, a provider of electrification and automation equipment and systems, adds significant product and service capabilities in power electronics, industrial automation and process controls.



In addition, Energy provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial lighting systems. Energy also provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission.



(5)



Energy is party to revenue sharing programs that share the financial results of certain aeroderivative lines. These businesses are controlled by Energy, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2011, such counterparty interests ranged from 17% to 48% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.



Worldwide competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for power generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as we plan for future development.



Oil & Gas



Our technology helps oil and gas companies make more efficient and sustainable use of the world's energy resources.



Oil & Gas supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas industry, used in applications spanning the entire value chain from drilling and completion through production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipeline compression, pipeline inspection, and including downstream processing in refineries and petrochemical plants. The business designs and manufactures surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, high pressure reactors, industrial power generation and a broad portfolio of auxiliary equipment.



To ensure that the installed base is maintained at peak condition, our service business has over 40 service centers and workshops in the world's main oil and gas extraction and production regions. The business also provides upgrades to customers’ machines, using the latest available technology, to extend production capability and environmental performance. We also provide pipeline integrity solutions, sensor-based measurement, inspection, asset condition monitoring, controls, and radiation measurement solutions. Oil & Gas also offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current.



On February 4, 2011 and April 26, 2011, we completed the acquisitions of Wellstream PLC and the Well Support division of John Wood Group PLC, respectively.  Wellstream PLC expands the Oil & Gas portfolio with flexible subsea risers and flow lines. The Well Support division of John Wood Group PLC adds equipment, including electrical submersible pumps, that helps extract more oil and gas from mature fields. On February 1, 2011, we completed the acquisition of Dresser, Inc. which broadens the Oil & Gas product portfolio in control and relief valves, measurement, regulation and control solutions for gas and fuel distributions.



For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.



Aviation



Aviation (12.8%, 11.8% and 12.1% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of jet engines and related services with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.



Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium, intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls-Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.



(6)



Aviation is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are shared. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs.



Joint ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance, LLC.



Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2011, such counterparty interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.



Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft.



We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under long-term maintenance contracts.



The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards.



Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other.



For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.



Healthcare



Healthcare (12.3%, 11.3% and 10.4% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of essential healthcare technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries.  Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.



(7)





Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management, information technologies and customer productivity services.



We compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Products and services are sold worldwide primarily to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market.



Throughout the world, we deliver healthymagination solutions that provide greater efficiency to help control costs, better quality to improve patient outcomes, and extended access to healthcare for patients in underserved markets.



Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA), as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs.



For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.



Transportation



Transportation (3.3%, 2.3% and 2.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve customers in more than 100 countries in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.



Transportation manufactures high-horsepower diesel-electric locomotives, including the Evolution Series™, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation applications.



(8)



Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan.



For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.





Home & Business Solutions



Home & Business Solutions (5.7%, 5.8% and 5.5% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics − competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home & Business Solutions’ products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications.



Appliances and Lighting



We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram®, GE Profile™, GE®, Hotpoint® and GE Café™. We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in-home repair and aftermarket parts.



We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products.



Intelligent Platforms



Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems, motion control and operator interfaces.



We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.



GE Capital



GE Capital (31.0%, 31.0% and 31.7% of consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively) businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GE’s industry-specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market-specific opportunities.



During 2011, GE Capital provided approximately $104 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities. Additionally, we extended approximately $87 billion of credit to approximately 56 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 19,600 new commercial customers and 37,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2011 and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 284,000 commercial customers and 191,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S.



(9)



Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines.



Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia.



GE Capital has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non-strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward.



Commercial Lending and Leasing (CLL)



CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid-market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial-related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries.



In December 2011, we announced that GE Capital Financial Inc., our industrial bank, is acquiring MetLife’s U.S. retail deposit business, which is an established online bank with approximately $7.5 billion in U.S. retail deposits that will allow CLL to better serve its middle-market commercial customers.  The transaction is targeted to close in mid-2012 pending regulatory approval.



In 2011, we completed the sale of our CLL marine container leasing business, which consists of our controlling interests in the GE SeaCo joint venture along with other owned marine container assets, and our CLL trailer fleet services business in Mexico.



During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland.



In the first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL.



We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, there has been a disruption in the capital markets and in access to and availability of capital as well as the exit of some competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity.



Consumer



Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers’ needs. These products include, on a global basis, private-label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending.



(10)



In 2011, we entered into agreements to sell our Consumer Singapore business and our Consumer home lending operations in Australia and New Zealand (Australian Home Lending) and classified them as discontinued operations.  Both dispositions were completed during 2011.



In the first quarter of 2011, we sold a substantial portion of our Garanti Bank equity investment.  Following the sale, we hold a 2.25% equity ownership interest, which is classified as an available-for-sale security.



In 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico and classified them as discontinued operations. Both dispositions were completed during 2011.



Also, in 2010, we committed to sell our Consumer business in Canada, which was completed during 2011; and we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid-sized retailers and dealers.



In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business.



In June 2009, we increased our ownership to a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010, completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation.



Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumer’s capacity to repay debt.



Real Estate



Real Estate offers a range of capital and investment solutions, including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by existing income-producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt bonds.



We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write-offs.



Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.



(11)



Energy Financial Services



Energy Financial Services invests in long-lived, capital-intensive energy projects and companies by providing structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad-based commercial finance. We also invest in early-to-later-stage companies that are pursuing new technologies and services in the energy industry. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency.



We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.



GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS)



GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing services to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing services; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also co-sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports.



We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing.



GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations



GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capital’s five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non-allocated amounts determined by the GECC Chairman.



GE Corporate Items and Eliminations



GE Corporate Items and Eliminations includes the results of disposed businesses in which we retain an unconsolidated interest, principal retirement plan costs and underabsorbed corporate overhead, which includes research and development spending (including our Global Research Centers) and costs related to our Global Growth & Operations organization.



On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of our NBC Universal (NBCU) business and Comcast Corporation (Comcast) transferred certain of its assets to a newly formed entity, NBCUniversal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Prior to this transaction, NBCU operated as a consolidated diversified media and entertainment company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience. Following the transaction, we deconsolidated NBCU and we account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method.



During 2009, we sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN, and in the first quarter of 2010, we sold our other remaining Security business. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies, including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control.



Discontinued Operations



Discontinued operations primarily comprised BAC, GE Money Japan (our Japanese personal loan business, Lake, and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.), our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico, Consumer Singapore and Australian Home Lending.



(12)





For further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.



Geographic Data



Geographic data is reported in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.



Additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in the Geographic Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.



Orders and Backlog



GE Infrastructure equipment orders increased 24% to $50.1 billion at December 31, 2011. Total GE Infrastructure backlog increased 14% to $200.2 billion at December 31, 2011, composed of equipment backlog of $52.7 billion and services backlog of $147.5 billion. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report for further information.



Research and Development



GE-funded research and development expenditures were $4.6 billion, $3.9 billion and $3.3 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $0.8 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  Aviation accounts for the largest share of GE’s research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructure’s Energy business and Healthcare also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE.



Environmental Matters



Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses, involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.3 billion in 2011, $0.2 billion in 2010 and $0.3 billion in 2009. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion for each of the next two years.



In 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to dredge PCB-containing sediment from the upper Hudson River. The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decision setting forth the final performance standards for Phase 2 of the Hudson River dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we agreed to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the final performance standards set by EPA and increased our reserve by $0.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010 to account for the probable and estimable costs of completing Phase 2. In 2011, we completed the first year of Phase 2 dredging and commenced work on planned upgrades to the Hudson River wastewater processing facility.  Based on the results from 2011 dredging and our best professional engineering judgment, we believe that our current reserve continues to reflect our probable and estimable costs for the remainder of Phase 2 of the dredging project.



(13)



Employees and Employee Relations



At year-end 2011, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 301,000 persons, of whom approximately 131,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6. “Selected Financial Data” of this Form 10-K Report.



Approximately 15,800 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 108 different union local bargaining units. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. During 2011, we negotiated four-year agreements with most of our U.S. unions.  These agreements modestly increase ongoing costs over the term of the contracts on an aggregate basis.  However, the agreements also implement new features that focus on cost containment for health and pension plans.  Beginning January 1, 2012, all production employees will participate in a new consumer-directed health plan.  In addition, production employees who commence service on or after that date will not be eligible to participate in the GE Pension Plan, but will participate in a defined contribution retirement plan.



Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 3,400 employees.



Executive Officers



See Part III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this Form 10-K Report for information about Executive Officers of the Registrant.



Other



Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials.



We own, or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.



Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow.



% of Consolidated Revenues% of GE Revenues201120102009201120102009Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies3%3%4%4%5%5%Aviation segmentdefense-related sales333444





GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric Company.



The Company’s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828-0001. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.



(14)

