Item 1. Business

ABOUT GENERAL ELECTRIC

OUR INDUSTRIAL OPERATING SEGMENTS

Power & Water

Aviation

Transportation

Oil & Gas

Healthcare

Appliances & Lighting

Energy Management

OUR FINANCIAL SERVICES OPERATING SEGMENT

GE Capital

Business, operation and financial overviews for our operating segments are provided in the "Segment Operations" section within "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" section of this Form 10-K Report.

OTHER TERMS USED BY GE



Revenues

– unless otherwise indicated, we refer to captions such as "revenues and other income", simply as revenues.



Organic revenues

– revenues excluding the effects of acquisitions, dispositions and foreign currency exchange.



Earnings

– unless otherwise indicated, we refer to captions such as "earnings from continuing operations attributable to the company" simply as earnings



Earnings per share

– unless otherwise indicated, we refer to earnings per share as "earnings from continuing operations attributable to the company" simply as earnings per share



Operating earnings

– GE earnings from continuing operations attributable to the company excluding the impact of non-operating pension costs.



Segment profit

– refers to the operating profit of the industrial segments and the net earnings of the financial services segment. See page 30 for a description of the basis for segment profits.



Operating pension costs

– comprise the service cost of benefits earned, prior service cost amortization and curtailment loss for our principal pension plans.



Non-operating pension costs

– comprise the expected return on plan assets, interest cost on benefit obligations and net actuarial loss amortization for our principal pension plans.



Social cost

– include the costs of our pension and healthcare costs for employees and retirees.



NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES

In the accompanying analysis of financial information, we sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial data but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the SEC rules. Specifically, we have referred, in various sections of this Form 10-K Report, to:



Operating earnings and operating EPS



Industrial operating earnings



Industrial segment organic revenue growth



Industrial cash flows from operating activities (Industrial CFOA)



Operating and non-operating pension costs (income)



GE pre-tax earnings from continuing operations, excluding GECC earnings from continuing operations and the corresponding effective tax rates



GE Capital ending net investment (ENI), excluding liquidity



GECC Tier 1 common ratio estimate

The reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the "Supplemental Information" section within the MD&A of this Form 10-K Report. Non-GAAP financial measures referred to in this Form 10-K Report are designated with an asterisk (*).

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS AND ENVIRONMENT

In virtually all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The businesses in which General Electric Capital Corporation (GECC) engages are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts, investment banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers and insurance and reinsurance companies.

As a diverse global company, we are affected by world economies, instability in certain regions, commodity prices, such as the price of oil, and foreign currency volatility. Other factors impacting our business include:



product development cycles for many of our products are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success,



research and development expenditures are important to our business and



many of our products are subject to a number of regulatory standards.

These factors are discussed throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.



OUR EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

At year-end 2014, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 305,000 persons, of whom approximately 136,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see the "Other Financial Data" section of this Form 10K Report.

Approximately 16,400 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by one of 11 unions (approximately 82 different locals within such unions). A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. During 2011, we negotiated four-year agreements with most of our U.S. unions. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2015, and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements. While results of 2015 union negotiations cannot be predicted, our recent past negotiations have resulted in agreements that increased costs.

Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates that cover approximately 3,800 employees.

PROPERTIES

Manufacturing operations are carried out at approximately 227 manufacturing plants located in 39 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and at approximately 275 manufacturing plants located in 39 other countries.

CORPORATE INFORMATION AND WEBSITES

General Electric's address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY, 12345-6999; we also maintain executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828-0001.

The Company's Internet address is

www.ge.com

. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,

current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website,

www.ge.com/investor-relations/investor-services/personal-investing/sec-filing

, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828-0001. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at

www.sec.gov

or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

General Electric Capital Corporation filed a Form 10-K Report with the SEC, and this can also be viewed at

www.ge.com/investor-relations/investor-services/personal-investing/sec-filing

.

GE's Investor Relations website at

www.ge.com/investor-relations

and our corporate blog at

www.gereports.com

, as well as GE's Facebook page and Twitter accounts, including @GE_Reports, contain a significant amount of information about GE, including financial and other information for investors. GE encourages investors to visit these websites from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted.