Item 1. Business


ABOUT GENERAL ELECTRIC

OUR BUSINESS AND HOW WE TALK ABOUT IT

We are a global digital industrial company, transforming industry with software-defined machines and solutions that are connected, responsive and predictive. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation and oil and gas production equipment to medical imaging, financing and industrial products, we serve customers in approximately 180 countries and employ approximately 333,000 people worldwide. Since our incorporation in 1892, we have developed or acquired new technologies and services that have considerably broadened and changed the scope of our activities.

OUR INDUSTRIAL OPERATING SEGMENTS

Power

Energy Management

Transportation

Renewable Energy

Aviation

Appliances & Lighting

Oil & Gas

Healthcare

OUR FINANCIAL SERVICES OPERATING SEGMENT

Capital

Business, operation and financial overviews for our operating segments are provided in the Segment Operations section within the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) section.

THE GE CAPITAL EXIT PLAN

On April 10, 2015, the Company announced a plan (the GE Capital Exit Plan) to create a simple, more valuable company by reducing the size of its financial services businesses through the sale of most of the assets of GE Capital and aligning a smaller GE Capital with GE's industrial growth. We expect GE Capital to release approximately $35 billion in dividends to GE (subject to regulatory approval) as a result of the sale of GE Capital assets. As of December 31, 2015, we are ahead of our plan, having signed agreements with buyers for $157 billion of ending net investment (ENI), excluding liquidity of which $104 billion has closed. In addition, as part of our initiative to reduce the size of our financial services businesses, we completed the split-off of our remaining interest in GE Capital's North American Retail Finance business, Synchrony Financial, to holders of GE common stock, which resulted in a $20.4 billion buyback of GE common stock (671.4 million shares) in 2015. Combined with cash dividends of $4.3 billion, GE Capital returned about $25 billion to GE in 2015. In connection with the GE Capital Exit Plan, we completed a legal reorganization of GE Capital that included a merger of GE Capital into GE, a guarantee by GE of GE Capital debt, and an exchange of $36 billion of GE Capital debt for new GE notes. The result of all these actions reduced GE Capital's total assets by 38% from $501 billion at December 31, 2014 to $312 billion at December 31, 2015. We incurred charges of $22 billion related to these actions.

Given the progress of the GE Capital Exit Plan to date, we expect to largely complete that plan by the end of 2016 and are on track to file for rescission of GE Capital's designation as a nonbank Systemically Important Financial Institution (nonbank SIFI) in early 2016.

Further information on these activities is described in the GE Capital – GE Capital Exit Plan section of the MD&A and Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.


COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS AND ENVIRONMENT

In all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The businesses in which GE Capital engages are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions, including commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, independent finance companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers and insurance and reinsurance companies.

As a diverse global company, we are affected by world economies, instability in certain regions, commodity prices, such as the price of oil, and foreign currency volatility. Other factors impacting our business include:



product development cycles for many of our products are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success,



research and development expenditures are important to our business and



many of our products are subject to a number of regulatory standards.

These factors are discussed throughout MD&A.

OUR EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

At year-end 2015, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 333,000 persons, of whom approximately 125,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about employees, see the Other Financial Data section within the MD&A.

Approximately 16,000 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by one of 11 unions (approximately 82 different locals within such unions). A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. In June 2015, we negotiated new four-year collective bargaining agreements with most of our U.S unions.  These agreements continue to provide employees with good wages and benefits while addressing competitive realities facing the Company.

Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates that cover approximately 3,300 employees.