Item 1. Business

ABOUT GENERAL ELECTRIC

OUR BUSINESS AND HOW WE TALK ABOUT IT

We are a global digital industrial company, transforming industry with software-defined machines and solutions that are connected, responsive and predictive. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation and oil and gas production equipment to medical imaging, financing and industrial products, we serve customers in over 180 countries and employ approximately 313,000 people worldwide. Since our incorporation in 1892, we have developed or acquired new technologies and services that have considerably broadened and changed the scope of our activities.


OUR FINANCIAL SERVICES OPERATING SEGMENT

Capital

(a)

Beginning in the third quarter of 2017, the Energy Connections business within the former Energy Connections & Lighting segment was combined with the Power segment and presented as one reporting segment called Power. As a result of this combination, our GE Lighting and Current, powered by GE (Current) businesses are now reported as a separate segment called Lighting.

(b)

Beginning in the third quarter of 2017, our Oil & Gas segment is comprised of our ownership interest of approximately 62.5% in BHGE. We consolidate 100% of BHGE's revenues and cash flows, while our Oil & Gas segment profit and net income are derived net of minority interest of approximately 37.5% attributable to BHGE's Class A shareholders.

Business, operation and financial overviews for our operating segments are provided in the Segment Operations section within the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) section.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS AND ENVIRONMENT

In all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The businesses in which GE Capital engages are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions.

As a diverse global company, we are affected by world economies, instability in certain regions, commodity prices, such as the price of oil, foreign currency volatility and policies regarding trade and imports. Other factors impacting our business include:

•

product development cycles for many of our products are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success,

•

research and development expenditures are important to our business,

•

many of our products are subject to a number of regulatory standards and

•

changing end markets, including shifts in energy sources and demand and the impact of technology changes.

These factors are discussed throughout MD&A.


OUR EMPLOYEES AND EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

At year-end


, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 313,000 persons, of whom approximately 106,000 were employed in the United States.

Approximately 8,600 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by one of 9 unions (approximately 41 different locals within such unions). A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. In June 2015, we negotiated new four-year collective bargaining agreements with most of our U.S. unions. These agreements continue to provide employees with good wages and benefits while addressing competitive realities facing the Company.

Other GE affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates that cover approximately 1,700 employees.

PROPERTIES

Manufacturing operations are carried out at 191 manufacturing plants located in 38 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and at 348 manufacturing plants located in 43 other countries.

CORPORATE INFORMATION AND WEBSITES

General Electric’s address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain executive offices at 41 Farnsworth Street, Boston, MA 02210.

GE’s Internet address at

www.ge.com

, Investor Relations website at

www.ge.com/investor-relations

and our corporate blog at

www.gereports.com

, as well as GE’s Facebook page, Twitter accounts and other social media, including @GE_Reports, contain a significant amount of information about GE, including financial and other information for investors. GE encourages investors to visit these websites from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted.

Additional information on non-financial matters, including environmental and social matters and our integrity policies, is available in GE's Integrated Summary Report and at

www.ge.com/sustainability

.

Website references in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the websites. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website,

www.ge.com/investor-relations/events-reports

, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 41 Farnsworth Street, Boston, MA 02210.

Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at

www.sec.gov

or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information about the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.