Item 1. Business

General Electric Company (General Electric or the Company) is a high-tech industrial company that operates worldwide through its four industrial segments, Power, Renewable Energy, Aviation and Healthcare, and its financial services segment, Capital. The Power segment offers technologies, solutions, and services related to energy production, including gas and steam turbines, generators, and power generation services. The Renewable Energy segment provides wind turbine platforms, hardware and software, offshore wind turbines, solutions, products and services to hydropower industry, blades for onshore and offshore wind turbines, and high voltage equipment. The Aviation segment provides jet engines and turboprops for commercial and military airframes, maintenance, component repair, and overhaul services, as well as replacement parts, additive machines and materials, and engineering services. The Healthcare segment provides healthcare technologies in medical imaging, digital solutions, patient monitoring and diagnostics, drug discovery, biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies and performance enhancement solutions. The Capital segment leases and finances aircraft, aircraft engines and helicopters, provides financial and underwriting solutions, and manages our run-off insurance operations. See the Consolidated Results section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding our recent business portfolio actions.

We serve customers in over 170 countries. Manufacturing and service operations are carried out at 94 manufacturing plants located in 30 states in the United States and Puerto Rico and at 190 manufacturing plants located in 37 other countries.

In all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The businesses in which GE Capital engages are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions.

As a diverse global company, we are affected by world economies, instability in certain regions, commodity prices, foreign currency volatility and policies regarding trade and imports. See the Segment Operations section within Management's Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) for further information. Other factors impacting our business include:

•
product development cycles for many of our products are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success,
•
research and development expenditures are important to our business,
•
many of our products are subject to a number of regulatory standards and
•
changing end markets, including shifts in energy sources and demand and the impact of technology changes.

At year-end 2019, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 205,000 people, of whom approximately 70,000 were employed in the United States. Our Power, Renewable Energy, Aviation, Healthcare, and Capital segments employed approximately 38,000, 43,000, 52,000, 56,000 and 2,000 people, respectively. Our Corporate business employed approximately 13,000 employees.

Approximately 6,750 GE and GE affiliate manufacturing and service employees in the United States (U.S.)are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a union. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. In August 2019, most of GE's U.S. unions, including the IUE-CWA, ratified new four-year labor agreements to replace the current agreements.

General Electric’s address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain executive offices at 5 Necco Street, Boston, MA 02210.

GE’s Internet address at www.ge.com, Investor Relations website at www.ge.com/investor-relations and our corporate blog at www.gereports.com, as well as GE’s Facebook page, Twitter accounts and other social media, including @GE_Reports, contain a significant amount of information about GE, including financial and other information for investors. GE encourages investors to visit these websites from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. Additional information on non-financial matters, including environmental and social matters and our integrity policies, is available at www.ge.com/sustainability. Website references in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the websites. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/investor-relations/events-reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov.