Item 1. Business

General

Unless otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms “GE,” “GECS” and
“GECC” on the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Also, unless otherwise indicated
by the context, “General Electric” means the parent company, General Electric Company (the Company).

General Electric’s address is 1
River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828-0001.

We are one of the largest
and most diversified technology and financial services corporations in the world. With products and services ranging from aircraft engines, power generation, water processing, and household appliances to medical imaging, business and consumer
financing and industrial products, we serve customers in more than 100 countries and employ approximately 287,000 people worldwide. Prior to January 28, 2011, we also operated a media company, NBC Universal, Inc. (NBCU). Effective
January 28, 2011, we hold a 49% interest in a media entity that includes the NBC Universal businesses. See the NBC Universal section of this Item for additional information. Since our incorporation in 1892, we have developed or acquired new
technologies and services that have broadened and changed considerably the scope of our activities.

In virtually all of our global business activities,
we encounter aggressive and able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in
general, we are one of the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The NBC Television Network, which became part of the media entity referred to above as of January 28, 2011, is a major U.S. commercial broadcast
television network. NBC Universal also competes with other film and television programming producers and distributors, cable/satellite television networks and theme park operators. The businesses in which GECS engages are subject to competition from
various types of financial institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts, investment banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance companies and finance companies associated with
manufacturers.



(3)




Operating Segments

Segment revenue and profit information
and additional financial data and commentary on recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Operating businesses that are reported as segments include Energy Infrastructure, Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, GE Capital and Home & Business Solutions. Net earnings of GECS and the effect of
transactions between segments are eliminated to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of each of our operating segments follows.

Effective January 1, 2011, we reorganized the Technology Infrastructure segment into three segments – Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation. The
results of the Aviation, Healthcare and Transportation businesses are unaffected by this reorganization and we will begin reporting these as separate segments beginning with our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011.
Results for 2010 and prior periods in this Form 10-K Report are reported on the basis under which we managed our businesses in 2010 and do not reflect the January 2011 reorganization.

We also continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information for certain businesses within the segments.

Energy Infrastructure

Energy Infrastructure (25.0%, 26.2% and 23.7% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively) is a leader in the field of development, implementation and improvement of products and technologies that harness resources such as wind, oil, gas and water.

Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and Africa.



(4)




Energy

Energy also offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal water systems including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals, water purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid
handling equipment for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems, including mobile treatment systems and desalination processes.

On February 1, 2011, we acquired Dresser, Inc., which expands the business’s portfolio with technologies for gas engines, control and relief valves,
measurement, regulation and control solutions for gas and fuel distribution.

In addition, Energy provides integrated electrical equipment and systems
used to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage power in a
variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial applications. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered on the delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial lighting systems. Energy also offers
integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure, moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current. Energy also provides protection
and control, communications, power sensing and power quality products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission.

Energy is party to revenue sharing programs that share the financial results of certain aero-derivative lines. These businesses are controlled by Energy, but
counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2010, such counterparty interests ranged from 5% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such
counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.

Worldwide competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for power
generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as we plan for future
development.

Oil & Gas

Our technology
helps oil and gas companies make more efficient and sustainable use of the world’s energy resources.



(5)




Oil & Gas supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas industry, used in applications
spanning the entire value chain from drilling and completion through production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipeline compression, pipeline inspection, and including downstream processing in refineries and petrochemical plants. The business
designs and manufactures surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, high pressure reactors, industrial power generation and a broad portfolio of auxiliary
equipment.

On February 3, 2011, we acquired Wellstream PLC, which expands the business’s portfolio with subsea flexible risers and flowlines.

To ensure that the installed base is maintained at peak condition, our service business has over 40 service centers and workshops in the world’s
main oil and gas extraction and production regions. The business also provides upgrades to customers’ machines, using the latest available technology, to extend production capability and environmental performance.

For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.

Technology Infrastructure

Technology Infrastructure (25.2%, 24.8% and 22.9% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of
essential technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Around the world, we are helping build healthcare, transportation and technology infrastructure.

Our operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South America.

Aviation

Aviation produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our
military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters, bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of range: short/medium,
intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International, a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and Engine Alliance, LLC, a company
jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls-Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc., a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.

Aviation is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are
shared. These agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing programs.

Joint ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine
lines, but require negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities. Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and
retains related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance, LLC.

Revenue sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation, but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues
as well as development and component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2010, such counterparty interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to such counterparties are accounted for as costs of
production.



(6)




Aviation also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne platform computing systems, power
generation and distribution products, mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components for use in both military and commercial aircraft.

We provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO
services are often provided under long-term maintenance contracts.

The worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is
intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused intellectual
property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design, manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services are subject to a number of regulatory standards.

Potential sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in
technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each other.

Healthcare

Our product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data management, information technologies and customer productivity
services.

We compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in
design, high product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Products and services are sold worldwide to hospitals, medical facilities, pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies, and to the life science research market.

Throughout the world, we deliver healthymagination solutions that provide greater
efficiency to help control costs, better quality to improve patient outcomes, and extended access to healthcare for patients in underserved markets.

Our products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (U.S. FDA), as well as various laws that
apply to claims submitted under Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs.



(7)




Transportation

Transportation provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine.
We serve customers in more than 100 countries.

Transportation manufactures high-horsepower diesel-electric locomotives, including the Evolution
Series™, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the mining, transit,
marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs, and our engines are used for
marine power as well as stationary power generation applications.

Transportation also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve
fleet efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway management
services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators. We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability, optimize network
planning, and control network execution to plan.

For information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.

NBC Universal

NBC Universal (NBCU) (11.3%, 9.9% and 9.3% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) is a diversified media and entertainment
company focused on the development, production and marketing of entertainment, news and information, sports and other content to a global audience.



(8)




NBCU is subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations. The broadcast networks, cable
television networks and television stations are in extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in
these properties are dependent upon NBCU’s ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long-term programming contracts, including event-based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of programming to cable/satellite operators.
NBCU’s television and film production and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet
streaming and electronic sell-through offer entertainment options through new media, introducing uncertainty to NBCU’s operations. Other technologies enable the unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming,
increasing the risk of piracy. NBCU continues to devote substantial resources to protect its intellectual property against unauthorized use.

Prior to
September 2010, we owned 80% of NBCU and Vivendi S.A. (Vivendi) owned 20%. In September 2010, we acquired approximately 38% of Vivendi’s 20% ownership interest in NBCU (7.7% of NBCU’s outstanding shares). Prior to and in connection with
the transaction with Comcast Corporation (Comcast), we acquired the remaining Vivendi interest in NBCU (12.3% of NBCU’s outstanding shares). On January 28, 2011, we transferred the assets of the NBCU business and Comcast transferred
certain of its assets comprising cable networks, regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated investments to a newly formed entity, NBC Universal LLC (NBCU LLC). In connection with the transaction, we received cash
of $6.2 billion from Comcast and a 49% interest in NBCU LLC. Comcast holds the remaining 51% interest in NBCU LLC. We will account for our investment in NBCU LLC under the equity method.

NBC Universal’s headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout North America, Europe, South America and Asia.

GE Capital

GE Capital (31.3%, 32.0% and 37.3% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively)
businesses offer a broad range of financial services and products worldwide for businesses of all sizes. Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial
services. GE Capital also develops strategic partnerships and joint ventures that utilize GE’s industry-specific expertise in aviation, energy, infrastructure, healthcare and media to capitalize on market-specific opportunities.

During 2010, GE Capital provided approximately $90 billion of new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and municipalities.
Additionally, we extended approximately $78 billion of credit to approximately 52 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 29,000 new commercial customers and 46,000 new small businesses in the U.S. during 2010 and
ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 302,000 commercial customers and 179,000 small businesses through retail programs in the U.S.

Within our GE Capital operating segment, we operate the businesses described below along product lines.

Our operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and Asia.

GE Capital has communicated
its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI). To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a
consistent return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that are deemed to be non-strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in
our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going forward.



(9)




Commercial Lending and Leasing

CLL provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions. We have particular mid-market expertise, and primarily offer collateralized loans, leases and other financial services to
customers, including manufacturers, distributors and end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets include industrial-related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate aircraft; and equipment used in many
industries, including the construction, manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for
the Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, our credit card and auto businesses in the U.K. and our credit card business in Ireland.

Historically,
we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition related to our
lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently, competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to and availability of capital and a
reduced number of competitors. Profitability is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit quality and the availability and cost of capital funding, but also by successful management of credit risk, operating risk and
market risks such as interest rate and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and distribution channels, strong collateral and asset
management knowledge, deal structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and productivity.

In the first quarter of 2009, we
deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL) following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in PTL.

Consumer

Consumer, through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of financial services to consumers and retailers around the
world. We offer a full range of financial products to suit customers’ needs. These products include, on a global basis, private-label credit cards; personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt consolidation; home equity
loans; deposit and other savings products; and small and medium enterprise lending.

During 2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which
included our Japanese personal loan business (Lake) along with our Japanese mortgage and card businesses, excluding our investment in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd. GE Money Japan has been classified as discontinued operations. Also in 2008, we
completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card business in Ireland in exchange for a 100%
ownership in Interbanca S.p.A. Also in 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian residential mortgage business.

In the fourth quarter
of 2010, we entered into agreements to sell our U.S. recreational vehicle and marine equipment financing portfolio (Consumer RV Marine) and Consumer Mexico, which have been classified as discontinued operations.

In 2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC) and, in December 2010,
completed the sale of BAC. BAC has been classified as a discontinued operation.

In October 2010, we purchased sales finance portfolios from Citi Retail
Partner Cards, which provides consumer financing programs and related services to small to mid-sized retailers and dealers.



(10)




Our operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations. Further, a number of countries
have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies, consumer loan companies, independent finance
companies, finance companies associated with manufacturers, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management, and cross selling. The markets in which we
operate are also subject to the risks from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the consumer’s capacity to repay debt.

Real Estate

Real Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions, including equity
capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan structures, the acquisition,
refinancing and renovation of office buildings, apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term, senior, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by
existing income-producing commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for, portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt bonds.

We own and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business operations, we sell certain real estate equity
investments when it is economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the
level of future sales, sales prices, impairments or write-offs.

Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real
estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and
terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.

Energy
Financial Services

Energy Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership financing, project finance and broad-based
commercial finance to the global energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries. In May 2010, we sold our general partnership interest in Regency Energy Partners L.P. (Regency), a midstream natural gas services
provider, and retained a limited partnership interest. This resulted in the deconsolidation of Regency.

We operate in a highly competitive environment.
Our competitors include banks, financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete
globally, our success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country in which we do business.

GE Capital Aviation Services

GECAS engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation
industry. Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions; aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also
co-sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large infrastructure projects including gateway airports.

We operate in a highly
competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition
and availability, as well as available capital demand for financing.



(11)




GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations

GECC Corporate Items and Eliminations primarily include unallocated Treasury and Tax operations; Trinity, a group of sponsored special purpose entities (which ceased issuing new investment contracts beginning in
the first quarter of 2010); certain consolidated, liquidating securitization entities; the effects of eliminating transactions between GE Capital’s five operating businesses; underabsorbed corporate overhead; and certain non-allocated amounts
determined by the GECC Chairman.

Home & Business Solutions

Home & Business Solutions (5.8%, 5.4% and 5.6% of consolidated revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics – competitive design, efficient
manufacturing and effective distribution and service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of differentiated, premium products that are more profitable
such as energy efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. Home & Business Solutions’ products such as major appliances and a subset of lighting products are primarily directed to consumer applications, while other lighting
products and automation solutions are directed towards commercial and industrial applications.

Appliances and Lighting

We sell and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave
ovens, room air conditioners, residential water systems for filtration, softening and heating, and hybrid water heaters. Brands are GE Monogram®, GE Profile™, GE®, Hotpoint® and GE Café™.

We manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances sales
are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
service organizations in the appliances industry, providing in-home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets, including full lines of incandescent,
halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products.

Intelligent Platforms

Intelligent Platforms provides plant automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including advanced software, controllers, embedded systems,
motion control, and operator interfaces.

We have global operations located in North America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.

GE Corporate Items and Eliminations

During 2009, we sold an
81% interest in our safety screening and detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN. Our remaining Security business was sold in the first quarter of 2010. Prior to its sale, it offered security and life safety technologies,
including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. These businesses are reported in GE Corporate Items and Eliminations.

Discontinued Operations

Discontinued operations primarily
comprised BAC, GE Money Japan, our U.S. mortgage business (WMC), Consumer RV Marine, Consumer Mexico and Plastics.

For further information about
discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.



(12)




Geographic Data

Geographic data is reported in Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of
this Form 10-K Report.

Additional financial data about our geographic operations is provided in the Geographic Operations section in Part II,
Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.

Orders
Backlog

GE’s total backlog of firm unfilled orders at the end of 2010 was $66.7 billion, a decrease of 1% from year-end 2009, reflecting
decreased demand at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by increased demand at Technology Infrastructure. Of this backlog, $46.0 billion related to products, of which 59% was scheduled for delivery in 2011. Product services orders, included in
this reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $20.6 billion at the end of 2010. Product services orders beyond the succeeding 12 months were approximately $108.7 billion, which combined with the firm unfilled orders described above
resulted in a total backlog of approximately $175.4 billion at December 31, 2010. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations section in Part II,
Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report for further information.

Research and Development

GE-funded research and development expenditures were $3.9 billion, $3.3 billion and
$3.1 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, research and development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled $1.0 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Technology
Infrastructure’s Aviation business accounts for the largest share of GE’s research and development expenditures with funding from both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructure’s Energy business and Technology Infrastructure’s
Healthcare business also made significant expenditures funded primarily by GE.

Expenditures reported above reflect the definition of research and
development required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology. These technology expenditures were $5.9 billion in 2010 and included our
reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our plants, equipment and processes.

Environmental Matters

Our operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require
that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to approximately $0.2 billion in 2010, $0.3 billion in 2009 and
$0.2 billion in 2008. We presently expect that such remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4 billion for each of the next two years.



(13)




As previously disclosed, in 2006, we entered into a consent decree with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to
dredge PCB-containing sediment from the upper Hudson River. The consent decree provided that the dredging would be performed in two phases. Phase 1 was completed in May through November of 2009. Between Phase 1 and Phase 2 there was an intervening
peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel evaluated the performance of Phase 1 dredging operations with respect to Phase 1 Engineering Performance Standards and recommended proposed changes to the standards. On
December 17, 2010, EPA issued its decisions setting forth the final performance standards for Phase 2 of the dredging project, incorporating aspects of the recommendations from the independent peer review panel and from GE. In December 2010, we
agreed with EPA to perform Phase 2 of the project in accordance with the final performance standards set by EPA. We have reviewed EPA’s final performance standards for Phase 2 to assess the potential scope and duration of Phase 2, as well as
operational and engineering changes that could be required. Based on this review and our best professional engineering judgment, we increased our reserve for the probable and estimable costs for completing the Hudson River dredging project by $0.8
billion in the fourth quarter of 2010.

Employee Relations

At year-end 2010, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed approximately 287,000 persons, of whom approximately 133,000 were employed in the United States. For further information about
employees, see Part II, Item 6. “Selected Financial Data” of this Form 10-K Report.

Approximately 15,200 GE manufacturing and service
employees in the United States are represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 105 different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in
coordination with, the IUE-CWA, The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC. During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four-year contracts with unions representing a substantial majority of the unionized
employees in the United States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011, and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements. While results of 2011 union negotiations cannot be predicted, our recent past negotiations have
resulted in agreements that increased costs.

Approximately 3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United States are
covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE affiliates are parties to labor
contracts with various labor unions, also with varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,500 employees.

Executive Officers

See Part III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this Form 10-K Report for information about
Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Other

Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide
variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials.

We own, or hold
licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to others, but no
operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.



(14)




Sales of goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of revenues follow.



% of Consolidated Revenues% of GE Revenues201020092008201020092008Total sales to U.S. Government Agencies4%4%3%5%6%4%Technology Infrastructure segment defense-related sales332443

GE is a trademark and service mark of General Electric
Company.

The Company’s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available, without charge, on our website, www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public Reference Room
in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and
should not be viewed as, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

