Item
1. Business.



General



Unless
otherwise indicated by the context, we use the terms “GE,” “GECS” and “GE
Capital” on the basis of consolidation described in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data” of this Form 10-K Report. Also, unless otherwise indicated by the context,
“General Electric” means the parent company, General Electric Company (the
Company).



General
Electric’s address is 1 River Road, Schenectady, NY 12345-6999; we also maintain
executive offices at 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT
06828-0001.



We are
one of the largest and most diversified technology, media, and financial
services corporations in the world. With products and services ranging from
aircraft engines, power generation, water processing, and household appliances
to medical imaging, business and consumer financing, media content and
industrial products, we serve customers in more than 100 countries and employ
about 300,000 people worldwide.  Since our incorporation in 1892, we
have developed or acquired new technologies and services that have broadened and
changed considerably the scope of our activities.



In
virtually all of our global business activities, we encounter aggressive and
able competition. In many instances, the competitive climate is characterized by
changing technology that requires continuing research and development. With
respect to manufacturing operations, we believe that, in general, we are one of
the leading firms in most of the major industries in which we participate. The
NBC Television Network is a major U.S. commercial broadcast television network.
NBC Universal also competes with other film and television programming producers
and distributors, cable/satellite television networks and theme park operators.
The businesses in which GECS engages are subject to competition from various
types of financial institutions, including commercial banks, thrifts, investment
banks, broker-dealers, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer loan
companies, independent finance companies and finance companies associated with
manufacturers.







(3)



Our
consolidated global revenues were $84.3 billion in 2009, compared with $97.2
billion in 2008 and $86.3 billion in 2007. For additional information about our
geographic operations, see the Geographic Operations section in Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.



Operating
Segments



Segment
revenue and profit information and additional financial data and commentary on
recent financial results for operating segments are provided in the Segment
Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 27 to the
consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K Report.



Operating
businesses that are reported as segments include Energy Infrastructure,
Technology Infrastructure, NBC Universal, Capital Finance and Consumer &
Industrial. Net earnings of GECS and the effect of transactions between segments
are eliminated to arrive at total consolidated data. A summary description of
each of our operating segments follows.



Results
for 2009 and prior periods in this section are reported on the basis under which
we managed our business in 2009 and do not reflect the January 2010
reorganization described in this section.



We also
continue our longstanding practice of providing supplemental information for
certain businesses within the segments.



Energy
Infrastructure



Energy
Infrastructure (23.7%, 21.1% and 17.8% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively) is a leader in the field of development, implementation
and improvement of products and technologies that harness resources such as
wind, oil, gas and water.



Our
operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia, South America and
Africa.



Energy







In
addition, Energy offers water treatment solutions for industrial and municipal
water systems including the supply and related services of specialty chemicals,
water purification systems, pumps, valves, filters and fluid handling equipment
for improving the performance of water, wastewater and process systems,
including mobile treatment systems and desalination processes.





(4)



Energy
is party to revenue sharing programs that share the financial results of certain
aero-derivative lines. These businesses are controlled by Energy, but
counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and
component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2009, such counterparty
interests ranged from 5% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to
such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.



Worldwide
competition for power generation products and services is intense. Demand for
power generation is global and, as a result, is sensitive to the economic and
political environment of each country in which we do business. The balance of
regional growth and demand side management are important factors to evaluate as
we plan for future development.



Effective
January 1, 2010, the Sensing & Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy
businesses of the Enterprise Solutions business in the Technology Infrastructure
segment and the Industrial business in the Consumer & Industrial segment
became part of the Energy business.



Oil
& Gas



Our
technology helps oil and gas companies make more efficient and sustainable use
of the world's energy resources.



Oil
& Gas supplies mission critical equipment for the global oil and gas
industry, used in applications spanning the entire value chain from drilling and
completion through production, liquefied natural gas (LNG) and pipeline
compression, pipeline inspection, and including downstream processing in
refineries and petrochemical plants. The business designs and manufactures
surface and subsea drilling and production systems, equipment for floating
production platforms, compressors, turbines, turboexpanders, high pressure
reactors, industrial power generation and a broad portfolio of auxiliary
equipment.



To
ensure that the installed base is maintained at peak condition, our service
business has over 40 service centers and workshops in the world's main oil and
gas extraction and production regions. The business also provides upgrades to
customers’ machines, using the latest available technology, to extend production
capability and environmental performance.



For
information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part
II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.



Technology
Infrastructure



Technology
Infrastructure (27.1%, 25.4% and 24.8% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively) is one of the world’s leading providers of essential
technologies to developed, developing and emerging countries. Around the world,
we are helping build healthcare, transportation and technology
infrastructure.



Our
operations are located in North America, Europe, Asia and South
America.



Aviation



Aviation
produces, sells and services jet engines, turboprop and turbo shaft engines, and
related replacement parts for use in military and commercial aircraft. Our
military engines are used in a wide variety of aircraft including fighters,
bombers, tankers, helicopters and surveillance aircraft, as well as marine
applications, and our commercial engines power aircraft in all categories of
range: short/medium, intermediate and long-range, as well as executive and
regional aircraft. We also produce and market engines through CFM International,
a company jointly owned by GE and Snecma, a subsidiary of SAFRAN of France, and
Engine Alliance, LLC, a company jointly owned by GE and the Pratt & Whitney
division of United Technologies Corporation. New engines are also being designed
and marketed in joint ventures with Rolls-Royce Group plc and Honda Aero, Inc.,
a division of Honda Motor Co., Ltd.



Aviation
is party to agreements in which the financial results, as well as production
responsibilities, of certain aircraft and marine engine lines are shared. These
agreements take the form of both joint ventures and revenue sharing
programs.





(5)



Joint
ventures market and sell particular aircraft engine lines, but require
negligible direct investment because the venture parties conduct essentially all
of the development, production, assembly and aftermarket support activities.
Under these agreements, Aviation supplies certain engine components and retains
related intellectual property rights. The CFM56 engine line is the product of
CFM International and the GP7000 engine line is the product of Engine Alliance,
LLC.



Revenue
sharing programs are a standard form of cooperation for specific product
programs in the aviation industry. These businesses are controlled by Aviation,
but counterparties have an agreed share of revenues as well as development and
component production responsibilities. At December 31, 2009, such counterparty
interests ranged from 2% to 49% of various programs; associated distributions to
such counterparties are accounted for as costs of production.



Aviation
also produces global aerospace systems and equipment, including airborne
platform computing systems, power generation and distribution products,
mechanical actuation products and landing gear, plus various engine components
for use in both military and commercial aircraft.



We
provide maintenance, component repair and overhaul services (MRO), including
sales of replacement parts for many models of engines and repair and overhaul of
engines manufactured by competitors. These MRO services are often provided under
long-term maintenance contracts.



The
worldwide competition in aircraft jet engines and MRO (including parts sales) is
intense. Both U.S. and export markets are important. Product development cycles
are long and product quality and efficiency are critical to success. Research
and development expenditures are important in this business, as are focused
intellectual property strategies and protection of key aircraft engine design,
manufacture, repair and product upgrade technologies. Our products and services
are subject to a number of regulatory standards.



Potential
sales for any engine are limited by, among other things, its technological
lifetime, which may vary considerably depending upon the rate of advance in
technology, the small number of potential customers and the limited number of
relevant airframe applications. Aircraft engine orders tend to follow military
and airline procurement cycles, although these cycles differ from each
other.



Enterprise
Solutions



Enterprise
Solutions offers integrated solutions using sensors for temperature, pressure,
moisture, gas and flow rate as well as non-destructive testing inspection
equipment, including radiographic, ultrasonic, remote visual and eddy current.
Enterprise Solutions also offers security and life safety technologies,
including intrusion and access control, video surveillance and sensor monitoring
equipment, fire detection and real estate and property control. In addition, it
provides protection and control, communications, power sensing and power quality
products and services that increase the reliability of electrical power networks
and critical equipment and offering wireless data transmission. Plant
automation, hardware, software and embedded computing systems including
controllers, embedded systems, advanced software, motion control, operator
interfaces and industrial computers are also provided by Enterprise Solutions.
Markets are extremely diverse. Products and services are sold to residential,
commercial and industrial end-users, including utilities, original equipment
manufacturers, electrical distributors, retail outlets, airports, railways, and
transit authorities. Increasingly, products and services are developed for and
sold in global markets.



During
2009, Enterprise Solutions sold an 81% interest in our safety screening and
detection business, GE Homeland Protection, Inc., to SAFRAN. GE also dissolved
its joint venture with FANUC Ltd. resulting in GE retaining the global software,
services, embedded systems and control systems businesses. In addition, during
2009 GE signed a definitive agreement with United Technologies Corporation to
sell our security and life safety solutions business, GE Security. The sale is
expected to close in early 2010.





(6)



Effective
January 1, 2010, the retained portion of the GE Fanuc Intelligent Platforms
business was included in our newly-created segment, Home & Business
Solutions. The Sensing & Inspection Technologies and Digital Energy
businesses became part of the Energy business within the Energy Infrastructure
segment. The Security business will be reported in Corporate Items and
Eliminations pending its expected sale.



Healthcare



Healthcare
has expertise in medical imaging and information technologies, medical
diagnostics, patient monitoring systems, disease research, drug discovery and
biopharmaceutical manufacturing technologies. We are dedicated to predicting and
detecting disease earlier, monitoring its progress and informing physicians, and
helping them to tailor treatment for patients. Healthcare manufactures, sells
and services a wide range of medical equipment that helps provide a fast,
non-invasive way for doctors to see broken bones, diagnose trauma cases in the
ER, view the heart and its function, and identify early stages of cancers or
brain disorders. With X-ray, digital mammography, Computed Tomography (CT),
Magnetic Resonance (MR) and Molecular Imaging technologies, Healthcare creates
industry-leading products that allow clinicians to see inside the human body
more clearly than ever. In addition, Healthcare manufactured technologies
include patient monitoring, diagnostic cardiology, ultrasound, bone
densitometry, anesthesiology and oxygen therapy, and neonatal and critical care
devices. Medical diagnostics and life sciences products include diagnostic
imaging agents used in medical scanning procedures, drug discovery,
biopharmaceutical manufacturing and the latest in cellular
technologies.



Our
product services include remote diagnostic and repair services for medical
equipment manufactured by GE and by others, as well as computerized data
management and customer productivity services.



We
compete with a variety of U.S. and non-U.S. manufacturers and services
operations. Technological competence and innovation, excellence in design, high
product performance, quality of services and competitive pricing are among the
key factors affecting competition for these products and services. Throughout
the world, we play a role in delivering new technology to improve patient
outcomes and productivity tools to help control healthcare costs.



Our
products are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including
the FDA, as well as various laws that apply to claims submitted under Medicare,
Medicaid or other government funded healthcare programs.



Transportation



Transportation
provides technology solutions for customers in a variety of industries including
railroad, transit, mining, oil and gas, power generation and marine. We serve
customers in more than 100 countries.



Transportation
manufactures high-horsepower diesel-electric locomotives, including the
Evolution Series™, the most technologically advanced and most fuel efficient
locomotive, which meets or exceeds the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s
Tier II requirements. We also offer leading drive technology solutions to the
mining, transit, marine and stationary, and drilling industries. Our motors
operate in thousands of applications, from electrical drive systems for large
haulage trucks used in the mining industry to transit cars and drilling rigs,
and our engines are used for marine power as well as stationary power generation
applications. We also provide gearing technology for critical applications such
as wind turbines.



Transportation
also provides a portfolio of service offerings designed to improve fleet
efficiency and reduce operating expenses, including repair services, locomotive
enhancements, modernizations, and information-based services like remote
monitoring and diagnostics. We provide train control products, railway
management services, and signaling systems to increase service levels, optimize
asset utilization, and streamline operations for railroad owners and operators.
We deliver leading edge tools that improve asset availability and reliability,
optimize network planning, and control network execution to plan.



For
information about orders and backlog, see the Segment Operations section in Part
II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report.





(7)



NBC
Universal





NBCU is
subject to a wide range of factors, which could adversely affect our operations.
Our broadcast networks, cable television networks and television stations are in
extremely competitive and dynamic markets and are subject to advertising
patterns and changes in viewer taste and preference that can be unpredictable or
unforeseen. In addition, future revenues in these properties are dependent upon
our ability to obtain, renew or renegotiate long-term programming contracts,
including event-based sports programming and contracts for the distribution of
our programming to cable/satellite operators. Our television and film production
and distribution businesses are affected by the timing and performance of
releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets.
Technological advances like digital video recorders, Internet streaming and
electronic sell-through offer entertainment options through new media,
introducing uncertainty to our operations. Other technologies enable the
unauthorized copying and distribution of our film and television programming,
increasing the risk of piracy. We continue to devote substantial resources to
protect our intellectual property against unauthorized use.



On
December 3, 2009, we entered into an agreement with Comcast Corporation to
transfer the assets of the NBCU business to a newly formed entity, which will
consist of our NBCU businesses and Comcast Corporation's cable networks,
regional sports networks, certain digital properties and certain unconsolidated
investments. Pursuant to the transaction, we will receive cash and will own a
49% interest in the newly formed entity. As a result, we have classified NBCU
assets and liabilities as held for sale at December 31, 2009. The transaction is
subject to receipt of various regulatory approvals and is expected to close
within the next year.



NBC
Universal’s headquarters are in New York, New York, with operations throughout
North America, Europe, South America and Asia.



Capital
Finance



Capital
Finance (32.3%, 36.7% and 38.4% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively) offers a broad range of financial products and services worldwide.
Services include commercial loans and leases, fleet management, financial
programs, home loans, credit cards, personal loans and other financial
services.



During
2009, General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital) provided $72 billion of
new financings in the U.S. to various companies, infrastructure projects and
municipalities. Additionally, we extended $74 billion of credit to approximately
54 million U.S. consumers. GE Capital provided credit to approximately 14,200
new commercial customers and 40,000 new small businesses during 2009 in the U.S.
and ended the period with outstanding credit to more than 346,000 commercial
customers and 174,000 small businesses through retail programs in the
U.S.





(8)



Within
our Capital Finance operating segment, we operate the businesses described below
along product lines.



Our
operations are located in North America, South America, Europe, Australia and
Asia.



Capital
Finance has communicated its goal of reducing its ending net investment (ENI)
over the next three years. To achieve this goal, we are more aggressively
focusing our businesses on selective financial services products where we have
domain knowledge, broad distribution, and the ability to earn a consistent
return on capital, while managing our overall balance sheet size and risk. We
have a strategy of exiting those businesses where we are underperforming or that
are deemed to be non-strategic. We have completed a number of dispositions in
our businesses in the past and will continue to evaluate options going
forward.



Effective
January 1, 2010, the Capital Finance segment was renamed GE Capital and includes
all of the continuing operations of General Electric Capital Corporation. In
addition, the Transportation Financial Services business, previously reported in
GE Capital Aviation Services (GECAS), will be included in Commercial Lending and
Leasing (CLL) and our Consumer business in Italy, previously reported in
Consumer, will be included in CLL. Results for 2009 and prior periods are
reported on the basis under which we managed our business in 2009 and do not
reflect the January 2010 reorganization.



Commercial
Lending and Leasing



CLL
provides customers around the world with a broad range of financing solutions.
We have particular mid-market expertise, and offer loans, leases and other
financial services to customers, including manufacturers, distributors and
end-users for a variety of equipment and major capital assets. These assets
include industrial-related facilities and equipment; vehicles; corporate
aircraft; and equipment used in many industries, including the construction,
manufacturing, transportation, media, communications, entertainment and
healthcare industries. During 2009, we acquired a 100% ownership interest in
Interbanca S.p.A., an Italian corporate bank in exchange for the Consumer
businesses in Austria and Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the
U.K. and the credit card business in Ireland.



Historically,
we have operated in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include
commercial banks, investment banks, leasing companies, financing companies
associated with manufacturers, and independent finance companies. Competition
related to our lending and leasing operations is based on price, that is,
interest rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. More recently,
competition has been affected by disruption in the capital markets, access to
and availability of capital and a reduced number of competitors. Profitability
is affected not only by broad economic conditions that affect customer credit
quality and the availability and cost of capital, but also by successful
management of credit risk, operating risk and market risks such as interest rate
and currency exchange risks. Success requires high quality risk management
systems, customer and industry specific knowledge, diversification, service and
distribution channels, strong collateral and asset management knowledge, deal
structuring expertise and the ability to reduce costs through technology and
productivity.



In the
first quarter of 2009, we deconsolidated Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P. (PTL)
following our sale of a partial interest in a limited partnership in
PTL.



Consumer



Consumer,
through consolidated entities and associated companies, is a leading provider of
financial services to consumers and retailers in over 40 countries around the
world. We offer a full range of innovative financial products to suit customers’
needs. These products include, on a global basis, private-label credit cards;
personal loans; bank cards; auto loans and leases; mortgages; debt
consolidation; home equity loans; deposit and other savings products; and small
and medium enterprise lending.



In
December 2007, we sold our U.S. mortgage business (WMC). In the third quarter of
2008, we completed the sale of GE Money Japan, which comprised our Japanese
personal loan business (Lake) and our Japanese mortgage and card businesses,
excluding our minority ownership in GE Nissen Credit Co., Ltd.





(9)



In
October 2008, we completed the sale of the Consumer business in Germany. In
early 2009, we completed the sale of our Consumer businesses in Austria and
Finland, the credit card and auto businesses in the U.K., and the credit card
business in Ireland in exchange for a 100% ownership in Interbanca S.p.A., which
were included in assets and liabilities of businesses held for sale on the
Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008.



In the
first quarter of 2009, we completed the sale of a portion of our Australian
residential mortgage business.



In June
2008, we acquired a controlling interest in Bank BPH. In June 2009, we acquired
a controlling interest in BAC Credomatic GECF Inc. (BAC).



Our
operations are subject to a variety of bank and consumer protection regulations.
Further, a number of countries have ceilings on rates chargeable to consumers in
financial service transactions. We are subject to competition from various types
of financial institutions including commercial banks, leasing companies,
consumer loan companies, independent finance companies, manufacturers’ captive
finance companies, and insurance companies. Industry participants compete on the
basis of price, servicing capability, promotional marketing, risk management,
and cross selling. The markets in which we operate are also subject to the risks
from fluctuations in retail sales, interest and currency exchange rates, and the
consumer’s capacity to repay debt.



Real
Estate



Real
Estate offers a comprehensive range of capital and investment solutions,
including equity capital for acquisition or development, as well as fixed and
floating rate mortgages for new acquisitions or re-capitalizations of commercial
real estate worldwide. Our business finances, with both equity and loan
structures, the acquisition, refinancing and renovation of office buildings,
apartment buildings, retail facilities, hotels, parking facilities and
industrial properties. Our typical real estate loans are intermediate term,
senior, fixed or floating-rate, and are secured by existing income-producing
commercial properties. We invest in, and provide restructuring financing for,
portfolios of commercial mortgage loans, limited partnerships and tax-exempt
bonds.



We own
and operate a global portfolio of real estate with the objective of maximizing
property cash flows and asset values. In the normal course of our business
operations, we sell certain real estate equity investments when it is
economically advantageous for us to do so. However, as real estate values are
affected by certain forces beyond our control (e.g., market fundamentals and
demographic conditions), it is difficult to predict with certainty the level of
future sales, sales prices, impairments or write-offs.



Our
competitors include banks, financial institutions, real estate companies, real
estate investment funds and other financial companies. Competition in our equity
investment business is primarily based on price, and competition in our lending
business is primarily based on interest rates and fees, as well as deal
structure and terms. As we compete globally, our success is sensitive to the
economic and political environment of each country in which we do
business.



Energy
Financial Services



Energy
Financial Services offers structured equity, debt, leasing, partnership
financing, project finance and broad-based commercial finance to the global
energy and water industries and invests in operating assets in these industries.
Energy Financial Services also owns a controlling interest in Regency Energy
Partners LP, a midstream master limited partnership engaged in the gathering,
processing, transporting and marketing of natural gas and gas
liquids.



We
operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks,
financial institutions, energy and water companies, and other finance and
leasing companies. Competition is primarily based on price, that is, interest
rates and fees, as well as deal structure and terms. As we compete globally, our
success is sensitive to the economic and political environment of each country
in which we do business.





(10)



GE
Capital Aviation Services



GECAS
engages in commercial aircraft leasing and finance, delivering fleet and
financing solutions to companies across the spectrum of the aviation industry.
Our product offerings include leases and secured loans on commercial passenger
aircraft, freighters and regional jets; engine leasing and financing solutions;
aircraft parts solutions; and airport equity and debt financing. We also
co-sponsor an infrastructure private equity fund, which invests in large
infrastructure projects including gateway airports. GECAS also has in its
portfolio a wide array of products including leases, debt and equity investments
to the global transportation industry (marine, rail and
intermodal).



We
operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include aircraft
manufacturers, banks, financial institutions, equity investors, and other
finance and leasing companies. Competition is based on lease rate financing
terms, aircraft delivery dates, condition and availability, as well as available
capital demand for financing.



Consumer
& Industrial



Consumer
& Industrial (6.2%, 6.4% and 7.3% of consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively) sells products that share several characteristics −
competitive design, efficient manufacturing and effective distribution and
service. Cost control, including productivity, is key in the highly competitive
markets in which we compete. We also invest in the development of
differentiated, premium products that are more profitable such as energy
efficient solutions for both consumers and businesses. While some Consumer &
Industrial products such as major appliances are primarily directed to consumer
applications, and some primarily to industrial applications such as switchgear,
others, such as lighting, are directed to both markets.



We sell
and service major home appliances including refrigerators, freezers, electric
and gas ranges, cooktops, dishwashers, clothes washers and dryers, microwave
ovens, room air conditioners, and residential water systems for filtration,
softening and heating. Brands are GE Monogram®, GE Profile™, GE®, Hotpoint® and
GE Café™.



We
manufacture certain products and also source finished product and component
parts from third-party global manufacturers. A large portion of our appliances
sales are through a variety of retail outlets for replacement of installed
units. Residential building contractors installing units in new construction is
our second major U.S. channel. We offer one of the largest original equipment
manufacturer (OEM) service organizations in the appliances industry, providing
in-home repair and aftermarket parts. We also manufacture, source and sell a
variety of lamp products for commercial, industrial and consumer markets,
including full lines of incandescent, halogen, fluorescent, high-intensity
discharge, light-emitting diode, automotive and miniature products.



Consumer
& Industrial also provides integrated electrical equipment and systems used
to distribute, protect and control energy and equipment. We manufacture and
distribute electrical distribution and control products, lighting and power
panels, switchgear and circuit breakers that are used to distribute and manage
power in a variety of residential, commercial, consumer and industrial
applications. We also provide customer-focused solutions centered on the
delivery and control of electric power, and market a wide variety of commercial
lighting systems.



Effective
January 1, 2010, the Industrial business became part of the Energy business
within the Energy Infrastructure segment and the Appliances and Lighting portion
of the Consumer and Industrial business became part of our newly-created
segment, Home & Business Solutions.



Our
headquarters are in Louisville, Kentucky and our operations are located in North
America, Europe, Asia and Latin America.



Discontinued
Operations



Discontinued
operations primarily comprised GE Money Japan, WMC and Plastics.



For
further information about discontinued operations, see Part II, Item 7.
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item
8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.





(11)



Geographic
Data



Geographic
data are reported in Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in Part
II, Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K
Report.



Additional
financial data about our geographic operations is provided in the Geographic
Operations section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K
Report.



Orders
Backlog



GE’s
total backlogof firm unfilled orders at the end of 2009 was
$67.3 billion, a decrease of 4% from year-end 2008, reflecting decreased demand
at Energy Infrastructure, partially offset by increased demand at Technology
Infrastructure. Of this backlog, $46.3 billion related to products, of which 61%
was scheduled for delivery in 2010. Product services orders, included in this
reported backlog for only the succeeding 12 months, were $21.0 billion at the
end of 2009. Product services orders beyond the succeeding 12 months were
approximately $108 billion, which combined with the firm unfilled orders
described above resulted in a total backlog of approximately $175 billion at
December 31, 2009. Orders constituting backlog may be cancelled or deferred by
customers, subject in certain cases to penalties. See the Segment Operations
section in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K Report for further
information.



Research
and Development



GE-funded
research and development expenditures were $3.3 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.0
billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, research and
development funding from customers, principally the U.S. government, totaled
$1.1 billion, $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. Technology Infrastructure’s Aviation business accounts for the
largest share of GE’s research and development expenditures with funding from
both GE and customer funds. Energy Infrastructure’s Energy business and
Technology Infrastructure’s Healthcare business also made significant
expenditures funded primarily by GE.



Expenditures
reported above reflect the definition of research and development required by
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. For operating and management
purposes, we also measure amounts spent on product and services technology.
These technology expenditures were $5.2 billion in 2009 and included our
reported research and development expenditures as well as the amount spent to
improve our existing products and services, and to improve productivity of our
plants, equipment and processes.



Environmental
Matters



Our
operations, like operations of other companies engaged in similar businesses,
involve the use, disposal and cleanup of substances regulated under
environmental protection laws. We are involved in a sizeable number of
remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and
state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation
actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a
disposal site. Expenditures for site remediation actions amounted to
approximately $0.3 billion in both 2009 and 2008. We presently expect that such
remediation actions will require average annual expenditures of about $0.4
billion over the next two years.





(12)



In
November 2006, the United States Federal District Court approved a consent
decree, which had been agreed to by GE and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), that represents a comprehensive framework for
implementation of EPA's 2002 Record of Decision to dredge polychlorinated
biphenyl (PCB)-containing sediments in the upper Hudson River. Under the consent
degree, the dredging is to be performed in two phases and Phase I was completed
in May through November of 2009. Between Phase I and Phase II there will be an
intervening peer review by an independent panel of national experts. The panel
will evaluate the performance of Phase I dredging operations with respect to
Phase I Engineering Performance Standards, evaluate experience gained from Phase
I and may set forth proposed changes to the standards. This evaluation is
expected to conclude in the summer of 2010 after which EPA, considering the peer
review panel's recommendations, GE's proposed changes, and its own analysis,
will issue its regulatory decision setting forth any changes to the scope of, or
performance standards for, Phase II. Following EPA's decision, GE has 90 days to
either elect to perform Phase II or to opt out of the project, at which point GE
may be responsible for further costs. Our statement of financial position as of
December 31, 2009, included liabilities for the probable and estimable costs of
the project under the consent decree.



Employee
Relations



At
year-end 2009, General Electric Company and consolidated affiliates employed
approximately 304,000 persons, of whom approximately 134,000 were employed in
the United States. For further information about employees, see Part II, Item 6.
“Selected Financial Data” of this Form 10-K Report.



Approximately
15,600 GE manufacturing and service employees in the United States are
represented for collective bargaining purposes by a total of approximately 110
different union locals. A majority of such employees are represented by union
locals that are affiliated with, and bargain in coordination with, the IUE-CWA,
The Industrial Division of the Communication Workers of America, AFL-CIO, CLC.
During 2007, General Electric Company negotiated four-year contracts with unions
representing a substantial majority of the unionized employees in the United
States. Most of these contracts will terminate in June 2011.



Approximately
3,500 staff employees (and a large number of freelance employees) in the United
States are covered by about 175 labor agreements to which NBC Universal is a
party. These agreements are with various labor unions, expire at various dates
and are generally for a term ranging from three to five years. Other GE
affiliates are parties to labor contracts with various labor unions, also with
varying terms and expiration dates, that cover approximately 2,400
employees.



Executive
Officers



See Part
III, Item 10. “Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance” of this
Form 10-K Report for information about Executive Officers of the
Registrant.



Other



Because
of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic
dispersion of our production facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide
variety of raw materials needed for our operations. We have not been adversely
affected by the inability to obtain raw materials.



We own,
or hold licenses to use, numerous patents. New patents are continuously being
obtained through our research and development activities as existing patents
expire. Patented inventions are used both within the Company and are licensed to
others, but no operating segment is substantially dependent on any single patent
or group of related patents.





(13)



Sales of
goods and services to agencies of the U.S. Government as a percentage of
revenues follow.



%
      of Consolidated Revenues%
      of GE Revenues200920082007200920082007Total
      sales to U.S. Government Agencies4%3%2%6%4%3%Technology
      Infrastructure segmentdefense-related
      sales322533





GE is a
trademark and service mark of General Electric Company.



The
Company’s Internet address is www.ge.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments
to those reports are available, without charge, on our website,
www.ge.com/en/company/investor/secfilings.htm, as soon as reasonably practicable
after they are filed electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). Copies are also available, without charge, from GE Corporate
Investor Communications, 3135 Easton Turnpike, Fairfield, CT 06828. Reports
filed with the SEC may be viewed at www.sec.gov or obtained at the SEC Public
Reference Room in Washington, D.C. Information regarding the operation of the
Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
References to our website addressed in this report are provided as a convenience
and do not constitute, and should not be viewed as, an incorporation by
reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website.
Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this
report.





