Item 1.  Business

Background

We are a self-administered and self-managed REIT, which began operations upon completion of our initial public offering in February 1986. In October
1993, we completed an additional common stock offering and acquired the rental real estate and service businesses of Duke Associates, whose operations began in 1972. As of December 31, 2010, our diversified portfolio of 793 rental properties
(including 114 jointly controlled in-service properties with approximately 22.7 million square feet, eight consolidated properties under development with approximately 2.9 million square feet and two jointly controlled properties under
development with approximately 866,000 square feet) encompasses approximately 140.5 million rentable square feet and is leased by a diverse base of approximately 3,600 tenants whose businesses include government services, manufacturing,
retailing, wholesale trade, distribution, healthcare and professional services. We also own, including through ownership interests in unconsolidated joint ventures, approximately 4,800 acres of land and control an additional 1,650 acres through
purchase options.

Our headquarters and executive offices are located in Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition, we have 17 regional offices
located in Alexandria, Virginia; Atlanta, Georgia; Baltimore, Maryland; Chicago, Illinois; Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbus, Ohio; Dallas, Texas; Houston, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota; Nashville, Tennessee; Orlando, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona; Raleigh,
North Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri; Savannah, Georgia; Tampa, Florida; and Weston, Florida. We had approximately 1,000 employees as of December 31, 2010.

See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for information related to our operations, asset and capital strategies.

Reportable Operating Segments

We have
three reportable operating segments, the first two of which consist of the ownership and rental of office and industrial real estate investments. The operations of our office and industrial properties, along with our medical office and retail
properties, are collectively referred to as “Rental Operations.” Our medical office and retail properties do not meet the quantitative thresholds for separate presentation as reportable segments.



- 2 -




The third reportable segment consists of providing various real estate services such as property management,
asset management, maintenance, leasing, development and construction management to third-party property owners and joint ventures, and is collectively referred to as “Service Operations.” Our reportable segments offer different products or
services and are managed separately because each segment requires different operating strategies and management expertise. Our Service Operations segment also includes our taxable REIT subsidiary, a legal entity through which certain of the
segment’s operations are conducted. Through our Service Operations reportable segment, we have historically developed or acquired properties with the intent to sell (hereafter referred to as “Build-for-Sale” properties).
Build-for-Sale properties were generally identified as such prior to construction commencement and were sold within a relatively short time after being placed in service. Build-for-Sale properties, which are no longer part of our operating strategy,
did not represent a significant component of our operations in 2010 or 2009.

We assess and measure our overall operating results based upon
an industry performance measure referred to as Funds From Operations (“FFO”), which management believes is a useful indicator of our consolidated operating performance. FFO is used by industry analysts and investors as a supplemental
operating performance measure of an equity REIT like Duke. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) created FFO as a supplemental measure of REIT operating performance that excludes historical cost depreciation,
among other items, from net income determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). FFO is a non-GAAP financial measure. The most comparable GAAP measure is net income (loss)
attributable to common shareholders. Consolidated FFO attributable to common shareholders should not be considered as a substitute for net income (loss) attributable to common shareholders or any other measures derived in accordance with GAAP and
may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. FFO is calculated in accordance with the definition that was adopted by the Board of Governors of NAREIT.

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have
historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry analysts and investors have considered presentation of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. FFO, as
defined by NAREIT, represents GAAP net income (loss), excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from sales of previously depreciated real estate assets, plus certain non-cash items such as real estate asset depreciation
and amortization, and after similar adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

Management believes that the use of
consolidated FFO attributable to common shareholders, combined with net income (which remains the primary measure of performance), improves the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing public and makes comparisons of REIT
operating results more meaningful. Management believes that, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously depreciated real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and amortization, investors and analysts are able to
readily identify the operating results of the long-term assets that form the core of a REIT’s activity and assist in comparing these operating results between periods or as compared to different companies.

See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data” for financial information related to our reportable segments.



- 3 -




Competitive Conditions

As a fully integrated commercial real estate firm, we provide in-house leasing, management, development and construction services which, coupled with our significant base of commercially zoned and
unencumbered land in existing business parks, should give us a competitive advantage both as a real estate operator and in future development activities.

We believe that the management of real estate opportunities and risks can be done most effectively at regional or local levels. As a result, we intend to continue our emphasis on increasing our market
share and effective rents in the primary markets where we own properties. We believe that this regional focus will allow us to assess market supply and demand for real estate more effectively as well as to capitalize on the strong relationships with
our tenant base. In addition, we seek to further capitalize on strong customer relationships to provide third-party construction services across the United States. As a fully integrated real estate company, we are able to arrange for or provide to
our industrial, office and medical office customers not only well located and well maintained facilities, but also additional services such as build-to-suit construction, tenant finish construction, and expansion flexibility.

All of our properties are located in areas that include competitive properties. Institutional investors, other REITs or local real estate operators
generally own such properties; however, no single competitor or small group of competitors is dominant in our current markets. The supply and demand of similar available rental properties may affect the rental rates we will receive on our
properties. Other competitive factors include the attractiveness of the property location, the quality of the property and tenant services provided, and the reputation of the owner and operator. In addition, our Service Operations face competition
from a considerable number of other real estate companies that provide comparable services, some of whom may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us.

Corporate Governance

Since our inception, we not only have strived to be a top-performer
operationally, but also to lead in issues important to investors such as disclosure and corporate governance. Our system of governance reinforces this commitment. Summarized below are the highlights of our Corporate Governance initiatives.



Board Composition•Our Board is controlled by supermajority (90.9%) of “Independent Directors”, as such term is defined under the
rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) as of January 30, 2011 and thereafterBoard Committees•Our Board Committee members are all Independent DirectorsLead Director•The Chairman of our Corporate Governance Committee serves as Lead Director of the Independent
DirectorsBoard Policies•No Shareholder Rights Plan (Poison Pill)•Code of Conduct applies to all Directors and employees, including the Chief Executive Officer and senior
financial officers; waivers require the vote of a majority of our Board of Directors or our Corporate Governance Committee.•Effective orientation program for new Directors•Independence of Directors is reviewed annually•Independent Directors meet at least quarterly in executive sessions•Independent Directors receive no compensation from Duke other than as Directors•Equity-based compensation plans require shareholder approval•Board effectiveness and performance is reviewed annually by our Corporate Governance
Committee



- 4 -




•Corporate Governance Committee conducts an annual review of the Chief Executive Officer
succession plan•Independent Directors and all Board Committees may retain outside advisors, as
they deem appropriate•Policy governing retirement age for Directors•Prohibition on repricing of outstanding stock options•Directors required to offer resignation upon job change•Majority voting for election of Directors•Shareholder Communications Policy



OwnershipMinimum Stock Ownership Guidelines apply to all Directors and Executive Officers

Our Code of Conduct (which applies to all Directors and employees, including the Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers) and the Corporate Governance Guidelines are available in the
Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section of our website at www.dukerealty.com. A copy of these documents may also be obtained without charge by writing to Duke Realty Corporation, 600 East 96th Street, Suite 100, Indianapolis, Indiana 46240,
Attention: Investor Relations.

Additional Information

For additional information regarding our investments and operations, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and
Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For additional information about our business segments, see Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Available Information and Exchange Certifications

In addition to this Report, we file quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. All documents that are filed with the SEC are available free of charge on our
corporate website, which is www.dukerealty.com. We are not incorporating the information on our website into this Report, and our website and the information appearing on our website is not included in, and is not part of, this Report. You may also
read and copy any document filed at the public reference facilities of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference facilities. These documents
also may be accessed through the SEC’s Interactive Data Electronic Application (“IDEA”) via the SEC’s home page on the Internet (http://www.sec.gov). In addition, since some of our securities are listed on the NYSE, you may read
our SEC filings at the offices of the NYSE, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

The NYSE requires that the Chief Executive Officer of
each listed company certify annually to the NYSE that he or she is not aware of any violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance listing standards as of the date of such certification. We submitted the certification of our Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, Dennis D. Oklak, with our 2010 Annual Written Affirmation to the NYSE on May 13, 2010.

We included the
certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules, relating to the quality of the Company’s public disclosure, in this Report as
Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.



- 5 -




