Item 1.  Business

Background

We are a self-administered and self-managed REIT, which began operations upon
completion of our initial public offering in February 1986. In October 1993, we completed an additional common stock offering and acquired the rental real estate and service businesses of Duke Associates, whose operations began in 1972. As of
December 31, 2009, our diversified portfolio of 762 rental properties (including 211 jointly controlled in-service properties with more than 43.2 million square feet, four consolidated properties under development with approximately
663,000 square feet and three jointly controlled properties under development with more than 957,000 square feet) encompasses approximately 135.4 million rentable square feet and is leased by a diverse base of approximately 3,500 tenants whose
businesses include manufacturing, retailing, wholesale trade, distribution, healthcare and professional services. We also own, including through ownership interests in unconsolidated joint ventures, approximately 5,000 acres of land and control an
additional 1,900 acres through purchase options.

We refined our business strategy in 2009, which includes planned reductions in undeveloped
land inventory in light of lower anticipated development volume and the targeting of non-strategic property dispositions. These decisions further align our focus on markets that we believe offer the best long-term prospects for rental rate growth
and overall demand with an emphasis on industrial and medical office properties. Additionally, we no longer plan to develop properties with the intent to sell them at or near completion.

Through our Service Operations reportable segment, we have historically developed or acquired properties with the intent to sell (hereafter referred to as “Build-for-Sale” properties).
Build-for-Sale properties were generally identified as such prior to construction commencement and were sold within a relatively short time after being placed in service. Build-for-Sale properties, which are no longer part of our operating strategy,
did not represent a significant component of our operations in 2009.

Our Service Operations also provide, on a fee basis, leasing, property
and asset management, development, construction, build-to-suit and other tenant-related services. We conduct our Service Operations through Duke Realty Services LLC, Duke Realty Services Limited Partnership and Duke Construction Limited Partnership.
Our Rental Operations are conducted through Duke Realty Limited Partnership. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data” for financial information related to our reportable segments.

Our headquarters and executive offices are located in
Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition, we have 17 regional offices located in Alexandria, Virginia; Atlanta, Georgia; Baltimore, Maryland; Chicago, Illinois; Cincinnati, Ohio; Columbus, Ohio; Dallas, Texas; Houston, Texas; Minneapolis, Minnesota;
Nashville, Tennessee; Orlando, Florida; Phoenix, Arizona; Raleigh, North Carolina; St. Louis, Missouri; Savannah, Georgia; Tampa, Florida; and Weston, Florida. We had approximately 1,000 employees as of December 31, 2009.



- 2 -




Operational Objectives

Historical cost accounting for real estate assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes
that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry analysts and investors have considered presentation of operating results
for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. FFO, as defined by NAREIT, represents GAAP net income (loss), excluding extraordinary items as defined under GAAP and gains or losses from sales of
previously depreciated real estate assets, plus certain non-cash items such as real estate asset depreciation and amortization, and after similar adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

Management believes that the use of FFO attributable to common shareholders, combined with net income (which remains the required primary measure of
performance), improves the understanding of operating results of REITs among the investing public and makes comparisons of REIT operating results more meaningful. Management believes that, by excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously
depreciated real estate assets and excluding real estate asset depreciation and amortization, investors and analysts are able to readily identify the operating results of the long-term assets that form the core of a REIT’s activity and assist
in comparing these operating results between periods or as compared to different companies.

As a fully integrated commercial real estate
firm, we provide in-house leasing, management, development and construction services which, coupled with our significant base of commercially zoned and unencumbered land in existing business parks, should give us a competitive advantage both as a
real estate operator and in future development activities.

We believe that the management of real estate opportunities and risks can be done
most effectively at regional or local levels. As a result, we intend to continue our emphasis on increasing our market share and effective rents in the primary markets where we own properties. We believe that this regional focus will allow us to
assess market supply and demand for real estate more effectively as well as to capitalize on the strong relationships with our tenant base. In addition, we seek to further capitalize on strong customer relationships to provide third-party
construction services across the United States. As a fully integrated real estate company, we are able to arrange for or provide to our industrial, office and medical office customers not only well located and well maintained facilities, but also
additional services such as build-to-suit construction, tenant finish construction, and expansion flexibility.

All of our properties are
located in areas that include competitive properties. Institutional investors, other REITs or local real estate operators generally own such properties; however, no single competitor or small group of competitors is dominant in our current markets.
The supply and demand of similar available rental properties may affect the rental rates we will receive on our properties. Other competitive factors include the attractiveness of the property location, the quality of the property and tenant
services provided, and the reputation of the owner and operator. In addition, our Service Operations face competition from a considerable number of other real estate companies that provide comparable services, some of whom may have greater marketing
and financial resources than are available to us.



- 3 -




Capital Strategy

Our strategy is to actively manage the components of our capital structure, in conjunction with the execution of our overall operating strategy, while continuing to maintain investment grade ratings from
our credit rating agencies and to ultimately improve the key metrics that drive these credit ratings.

In support of our capital strategy, as
well as our overall business strategy, we employ an asset disposition program to sell non-strategic real estate assets, which generates proceeds that can be recycled into new properties that better fit our growth objectives in industrial and medical
office properties or can be utilized to reduce our leverage.

We seek to reduce leverage and strengthen our balance sheet by maintaining a
balanced and flexible capital structure which includes: (i) extending and sequencing the maturity dates of our outstanding debt obligations; (ii) borrowing primarily at fixed rates by targeting a variable rate component of total debt less
than 20%; (iii) issuing common equity from time-to-time to maintain appropriate leverage parameters; and (iv) generating proceeds from the sale of non-strategic properties. By focusing on strengthening our balance sheet, we expect to be
well-positioned for future growth.

In addition, as discussed under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,” we have an $850.0 million unsecured line of credit available for our capital needs.

Corporate
Governance

Since our inception, we not only have strived to be a top-performer operationally, but also to lead in issues important to
investors such as disclosure and corporate governance. Our system of governance reinforces this commitment. Summarized below are the highlights of our Corporate Governance initiatives.



Board Composition•Our Board is controlled by supermajority (91.7%) of “Independent Directors”, as such term is defined under the
rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) as of January 30, 2010 and thereafterBoard Committees•Our Board Committee members are all Independent DirectorsLead Director•The Chairman of our Corporate Governance Committee serves as Lead Director of the Independent
DirectorsBoard Policies•No Shareholder Rights Plan (Poison Pill)•Code of Conduct applies to all Directors and employees, including the Chief Executive Officer and senior
financial officers; waivers require the vote of a majority of our Board of Directors or our Corporate Governance Committee.•Effective orientation program for new Directors•Independence of Directors is reviewed annually•Independent Directors meet at
least quarterly in executive sessions•Independent Directors receive no compensation from Duke
other than as Directors•Equity-based compensation plans require shareholder approval•Board effectiveness and performance is reviewed annually by our Corporate Governance Committee•Corporate Governance Committee conducts an annual review of the Chief Executive Officer succession plan•Independent Directors and all Board Committees may retain outside advisors, as they deem
appropriate•Policy governing retirement age for Directors•Prohibition on repricing of outstanding stock options



- 4 -




•Directors required to offer resignation upon job change•Majority voting for election of Directors•Shareholder Communications Policy



OwnershipMinimum Stock Ownership Guidelines apply to all Directors and Executive Officers

Our Code of Conduct (which applies to all Directors and employees, including the Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers) and the Corporate Governance Guidelines are available in the
Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section of our website at www.dukerealty.com. A copy of these documents may also be obtained without charge by writing to Duke Realty Corporation, 600 East 96th Street, Suite 100, Indianapolis, Indiana 46240,
Attention: Investor Relations.

Additional Information

For additional information regarding our investments and operations, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and
Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” For additional information about our business segments, see Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Available Information and Exchange Certifications

In addition to this Report, we file quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. All documents that are filed with the SEC are available free of charge on our corporate website, which is
www.dukerealty.com. We are not incorporating the information on our website into this Report, and our website and the information appearing on our website is not included in, and is not part of, this Report. You may also read and copy any document
filed at the public reference facilities of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) SEC-0330 for further information about the public reference facilities. These documents also may be accessed through
the SEC’s Interactive Data Electronic Application (“IDEA”) via the SEC’s home page on the Internet (http://www.sec.gov). In addition, since some of our securities are listed on the NYSE, you may read our SEC filings at the
offices of the NYSE, 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.

The NYSE requires that the Chief Executive Officer of each listed company
certify annually to the NYSE that he or she is not aware of any violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance listing standards as of the date of such certification. We submitted the certification of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Dennis D. Oklak, with our 2009 Annual Written Affirmation to the NYSE on May 13, 2009.

We included the certifications of our Chief
Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules, relating to the quality of the Company’s public disclosure, in this Report as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2.

