Item 1.Business

General

United Rentals is the largest equipment rental company in the world and our network consists of 531 rental locations in the United States
and Canada. We offer approximately 2,900 classes of equipment for rent to customers that include construction and industrial companies, manufacturers, utilities, municipalities, homeowners, and government entities. In 2010, we generated total
revenues of $2.2 billion, including $1.8 billion of equipment rental revenue.

As of December 31, 2010, our fleet of
rental equipment included over 210,000 units. The total original equipment cost of our fleet (“OEC”), based on initial consideration paid, was $3.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The fleet includes:



•General construction and industrial equipment, such as backhoes, skid-steer loaders, forklifts, earthmoving equipment and material handling
equipment;



•Aerial work platforms,such as boom lifts and scissor lifts;



•General tools and light equipment, such as pressure washers, water pumps, generators, heaters and power tools;



•Trench safety equipment, such as trench shields, aluminum hydraulic shoring systems, slide rails, crossing plates, construction lasers and line
testing equipment for underground work; and



•Power and HVAC equipment, such as portable diesel generators, electrical distribution equipment, and temperature control equipment including
heating and cooling equipment.

In addition to renting equipment, we sell new and used equipment as well as
related contractor supplies, parts and service.







Strategy

For the past several years, our strategy has focused on generating significant free cash flow and positioning our business for disciplined growth of revenues and earnings at higher margins. The
implementation of this strategy calls for a superior standard of customer service, an increasing proportion of revenues derived from larger accounts and a targeted presence in industrial and specialty markets.

Four key elements of this strategy are: a consistent focus on our core business of equipment rental; the optimization of our rental fleet
and branch network, both in terms of composition and management; responsible rate management; and greater efficiency in all areas of operation as evidenced by a significant reduction in costs.

Although the economic environment continued to present challenges for both our Company and the U.S. equipment rental industry in 2010, we
succeeded in realizing a number of achievements related to our strategy. These achievements include:



•An increase in the proportion of our equipment rental revenues derived from National Account customers, from 27 percent in 2009 to 31 percent in 2010.
National Accounts are generally defined as customers with potential annual spend of $500,000 or more on equipment rentals or customers doing business in multiple locations;



•Full year free cash flow generation of $227 million in 2010, after net rental capital expenditures (defined as purchases of rental equipment less the
proceeds from sales of rental equipment) of $202 million. In 2010, we selectively invested in fleet where warranted by demand, which resulted in a significant increase in net rental capital expenditures from $31 million in 2009;



•Continued improvement in fleet management, including a record average of $1.45 billion OEC of fleet transferred among branches per quarter in 2010, to
deploy assets in areas of greater earnings potential;



•Continued improvement in customer service management, including an increase in the percentage of equipment rental revenues from accounts that are
managed by a single point of contact. Establishing a single point of contact for our key accounts helps us provide more uniform customer service management. Equipment rental revenues from National Accounts and other large customers managed by a
single point of contact increased to 51 percent of our total equipment rental revenues in 2010 from 47 percent in 2009. Additionally, we expanded our centralized Customer Care Center (“CCC”). The CCC, which established a second base of
operations in 2010, handled 37 percent more rental reservations than in 2009;



•A further reduction in our employee headcount from approximately 8,000 at December 31, 2009 to approximately 7,300 at December 31, 2010;



•The continued optimization of our network of rental locations, including a further reduction in the overall number of branches from 569 at
December 31, 2009 to 531 at December 31, 2010, and the opening of five new trench safety, power and HVAC rental locations to grow our specialty rental business; and



•A 2010 year-over-year reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses of $41 million, or 10.0 percent. As a percentage of revenue, selling,
general and administrative expenses improved by 0.9 percentage points in 2010.

In 2011, we will continue to
focus on optimizing our core business through diligent management of the rental process, the strengthening of our customer service capabilities, and sustained cost controls. Additionally, we will focus on:



•Leveraging technology and training to improve rental rate performance and make the delivery and pick-up of our rental equipment to and from customers
more efficient;



•Further increasing the proportion of our revenues derived from National Accounts and other large customers. To the extent that we are successful, we
believe that over the long-term we can improve our







equipment rental gross margins and overall profitability, as large accounts tend to rent more equipment for longer periods of time and can be serviced more cost effectively than short-term
transactional customers;



•Accelerating our pursuit of opportunities in the industrial marketplace, where we believe our depth of resources and branch footprint give us a
competitive advantage. Additionally, industrial equipment demand is subject to different cyclical pressures than construction demand; and



•Further capitalizing on the demand for the higher margin power and temperature control equipment rented by our trench safety, power and HVAC business.

Industry Overview and Economic Outlook

We serve four principal end-markets for equipment rental in North America: commercial, infrastructure, industrial and residential. In 2010, based on an analysis of our charge customers’ Standard
Industrial Classification (“SIC”) codes:



•Commercial (private non-residential) construction rentals related to the construction and remodeling of office, retail, lodging and healthcare and
other commercial facilities represented approximately 56 percent of our rental revenues;



•Industrial rentals to manufacturers, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, ship builders, utilities and other industries represented
approximately 20 percent of our rental revenues;



•Infrastructure (private and public non-residential) construction rentals related to the building of public structures such as bridges, highways, power
plants and airports represented approximately 17 percent of our rental revenues; and



•Residential rentals for the construction and renovation of homes represented approximately 7 percent of our rental revenues.

As we entered 2010, our operating environment continued to be challenged by the economic events of the
prior 18 months: the financial crisis and consequent credit restrictions, the widespread recession and a severe downturn in non-residential construction activity of unprecedented depth and duration.

Late in the first quarter of 2010, we began to see signs of a recovery in some of our end markets; this recovery continued at a modest
level through the remainder of the year. We believe that our performance in the second half of 2010—which included a 12 percent year-over-year increase in the volume of our equipment on rent—primarily reflects cyclical improvements in our
operating environment. In addition, we believe that the economic environment—which was characterized by tight credit markets and cautious customer behavior—helped create a wave of first-time renters, and that some of these renters will not
return to purchasing equipment when the pace of construction activity accelerates.

In 2011, based on our analysis of leading
industry forecasts and broader economic indicators, we expect the recovery in our end markets to continue at a modest pace. In particular, we estimate that U.S. non-residential construction activity, our primary end market, will increase in the
mid-single digit percent range year-over-year in 2011.

Competitive Advantages

We believe that we benefit from the following competitive advantages:

Large and Diverse Rental Fleet. Our large and diverse fleet allows us to serve large customers that require substantial
quantities and/or wide varieties of equipment. We believe our ability to serve such customers should allow us to improve our performance and enhance our market leadership position.







We manage our rental fleet, which is the largest and most comprehensive in the industry,
utilizing a life-cycle approach that focuses on satisfying customer demand and optimizing utilization levels. As part of this life-cycle approach, we closely monitor repairs and maintenance expense and can anticipate, based on our extensive
experience with this type of equipment, the optimum time to dispose of an asset. Our fleet age, which is calculated on a unit-weighted basis, was 47.7 months at December 31, 2010 compared with 42.4 months at December 31, 2009.

Significant Purchasing Power. We purchase large amounts of equipment, contractor supplies and other items, which enables us
to negotiate favorable pricing, warranty and other terms with our vendors.

National Account Program. Our
National Account sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with large companies, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. We offer our National Account customers the benefits of a consistent level of
service across North America, a wide selection of equipment and a single point of contact for all their equipment needs. Equipment rental revenues from National Account customers were approximately $575 million and $500 million in 2010 and 2009,
respectively, and represented approximately 31 and 27 percent of our total equipment rental revenues in 2010 and 2009, respectively. With our continued focus on large National Accounts, we expect this percentage to increase over time.

Operating Efficiencies. We benefit from the following operating efficiencies:



•Equipment Sharing Among Branches. We generally group our branches into districts of six to 10 locations that are in the same geographic area.
Our districts are generally grouped into regions of six to 10 districts. Each branch within a region can access equipment located elsewhere in the region. This sharing increases equipment utilization because equipment that is idle at one branch can
be marketed and rented through other branches. Additionally, fleet sharing allows us to be more disciplined with our capital spend.



•Customer Care Center. We have a Customer Care Center (“CCC”) based in Tampa, Florida and Charlotte, North Carolina that handles all
1-800-UR-RENTS telephone calls. The CCC handles many of the 1-800-UR-RENTS telephone calls without having to route them to individual branches, which frees up branch employee time. In 2010, we established a second base of operations for the CCC,
which facilitated the CCC’s handling of 37 percent more rental reservations than in 2009. The CCC provides us with the ability to provide a more uniform quality experience to customers, manage fleet sharing more effectively and free up branch
employee time.



•Consolidation of Common Functions. We reduce costs through the consolidation of functions that are common to our branches, such as accounts
payable, payroll, benefits and risk management, information technology and credit and collection.

Information Technology Systems. We have a wide variety of information technology systems, some proprietary and some
licensed, that support our operations. This information technology infrastructure facilitates our ability to make rapid and informed decisions, respond quickly to changing market conditions and share rental equipment among branches. We have an
in-house team of information technology specialists that supports our systems.

Strong Brand Recognition. As the
largest equipment rental company in the United States, we have strong brand recognition, which helps us to attract new customers and build customer loyalty.

Geographic and Customer Diversity. We have 531 rental locations in 48 states and 10 Canadian provinces and serve customers that range from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and
homeowners. We believe that our geographic and customer diversity provides us with many advantages including:



•enabling us to better serve National Account customers with multiple locations;



•helping us achieve favorable resale prices by allowing us to access used equipment resale markets across North America; and



•reducing our dependence on any particular customer.







Our operations in Canada are subject to the risks normally associated with international
operations. These include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates and (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and
regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions. For additional financial information regarding our geographic diversity, see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.

Strong and Motivated Branch Management. Each of our full-service branches has a branch manager who is supervised by a
district manager. We believe that our managers are among the most knowledgeable and experienced in the industry and we empower them, within budgetary guidelines, to make day-to-day decisions concerning branch matters. Each regional office has a
management team that monitors branch, district and regional performance with extensive systems and controls, including performance benchmarks and detailed monthly operating reviews.

Employee Training Programs.We are dedicated to providing training and development opportunities to our employees.
In 2010, our employees enhanced their skills through over 260,000 hours of training, including safety training, equipment-related training from our suppliers and online courses covering a variety of subjects.

Risk Management and Safety Programs. Our risk management department is staffed by experienced professionals directing the
procurement of insurance, managing claims made against the Company, and developing loss prevention programs to address workplace safety, driver safety and customer safety. The department’s primary focus is on the protection of our employees and
assets, as well as protecting the Company from liability for accidental loss.

Segment Information

We have two reportable segments–general rentals and trench safety, power and HVAC. Segment financial information is presented in note
4 to our consolidated financial statements. The general rentals segment includes the rental of construction, aerial, industrial and homeowner equipment and related services and activities. The general rentals segment’s customers include
construction and industrial companies, manufacturers, utilities, municipalities and homeowners. The general rentals segment comprises seven geographic regions–the Southwest, Gulf, Northwest, Southeast, Midwest, East, and the Northeast
Canada–as well as the Aerial West region and operates throughout the United States and Canada. The trench safety, power and HVAC segment includes the rental of specialty construction products and related services. The trench safety, power and
HVAC segment’s customers include construction companies involved in infrastructure projects, municipalities and industrial companies. This segment operates throughout the United States and has two locations in Canada.

Products and Services

Our principal products and services are described below.

Equipment Rental. We offer for rent approximately 2,900 classes of rental equipment on an hourly, daily, weekly or monthly basis. The types of equipment that we offer include general
construction and industrial equipment; aerial work platforms; trench safety equipment; and general tools and light equipment. The unit-weighted age of our fleet was 47.7 months at December 31, 2010, compared to 42.4 months at December 31,
2009.

Sales of Rental Equipment.We routinely sell used rental equipment and invest in new equipment in
order to manage repairs and maintenance costs, as well as the composition and size of our fleet. We also sell used equipment in response to customer demand for this equipment. In accordance with the life-cycle approach we use to manage our fleet,
the rate at which we replace used equipment with new equipment depends on a number of factors, including changing general economic conditions, growth opportunities, the market for used equipment, the age of the fleet and the need to adjust fleet
composition to meet customer requirements as well as local demand.







We utilize many channels to sell used equipment: through our national sales force, which can
access many resale markets across North America; at auction; through brokers; and directly to manufacturers. We also sell used equipment through our website, which includes an online database of used equipment available for sale. In addition, we
hold United Rentals Certified Auctions on eBay to provide customers with another convenient online tool for purchasing used equipment.

New Equipment Sales. We sell equipment for many leading equipment manufacturers. The manufacturers that we represent and the brands that we carry include: Genie, JLG and Skyjack (aerial
lifts); Multiquip, Wacker and Honda USA (compaction equipment, generators and pumps); Sullair (compressors); Skytrak and JLG (rough terrain reach forklifts); Takeuchi (skid-steer loaders); Terex (telehandlers); and DeWalt (generators). The type of
new equipment that we sell varies by location.

Contractor Supplies Sales. We sell a variety of contractor
supplies including construction consumables, tools, small equipment and safety supplies. Our target customers for contractor supplies are our existing rental customers.

Service and Other Revenues. We also offer repair, maintenance and rental protection services and sell parts for equipment that is owned by our customers. Our target customers for these types
of ancillary services are our current rental customers as well as those who purchase both new and used equipment from our branches.

RENTALMAN(R)and INFOMANAGER(R)Software. We have two subsidiaries that
develop and market software. One of the subsidiaries develops and markets RENTALMAN(R), which is an enterprise resource planning application used by ourselves and most of the other largest equipment rental companies. The other subsidiary develops and markets INFOMANAGER(R), which provides a complete solution for creating an advanced
business intelligence system. INFOMANAGER(R)helps
with extracting raw data from transactional applications, transforming it into meaningful information and saving it in a database that is specifically optimized for analytical use.

Customers

Our customer
base is highly diversified and ranges from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and homeowners. In 2010, our largest customer accounted for less than one percent of our revenues and our top 10 customers in the aggregate accounted for
approximately four percent of our revenues. Historically, over 90 percent of our business each year, as measured by equipment rental revenues, has been generated from previous customers.

Our customer base varies by branch and is determined by several factors, including the equipment mix and marketing focus of the
particular branch as well as the business composition of the local economy, including construction opportunities with different customers. Our customers include:



•construction companies that use equipment for constructing and renovating commercial buildings, warehouses, industrial and manufacturing plants, office
parks, airports, residential developments and other facilities;



•industrial companies—such as manufacturers, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, ship builders and utilities—that use equipment for
plant maintenance, upgrades, expansion and construction;



•municipalities that require equipment for a variety of purposes; and



•homeowners and other individuals that use equipment for projects that range from simple repairs to major renovations.

Our business is seasonal, with demand for our rental equipment tending to be lower in the winter months.







Sales and Marketing

We market our products and services through multiple channels as described below.

Sales Force. We have approximately 1,700 sales people, including approximately 900 outside sales representatives who
frequently travel to customer jobsites and meet with customers, and approximately 800 inside sales representatives who work in our branches and at our customer care center. Our sales representatives are responsible for calling on existing and
potential customers as well as assisting our customers in planning for their equipment needs. We have ongoing programs for training our employees in sales and service skills and on strategies for maximizing the value of each transaction.

National Account Program. Our National Account sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with
large customers, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. Our National Account team, which consists of approximately 55 sales professionals and support staff, and includes those who service government agencies, closely
coordinates its efforts with the local sales force in each area.

E-Rentals. Our customers
can rent or buy equipment online 24 hours a day, seven days a week, at our E-Rentals portal, which can be found athttp://www.ur.com.Our customers can also use ourUR data®application to access real-time reports on their business activity with us.

Advertising. We promote our business through local and national advertising in various media, including trade publications, yellow pages, the Internet, radio and direct mail. We also
regularly participate in industry trade shows and conferences and sponsor a variety of local promotional events.

Suppliers

Our strategic approach with respect to our suppliers is to maintain the minimum number of suppliers per category of equipment that can
satisfy our anticipated volume and business requirements. This approach is designed to ensure the terms we negotiate are competitive and that there is sufficient product available to meet anticipated customer demand. We utilize a comprehensive
selection process to determine our equipment vendors. We consider product capabilities and industry position, the terms being offered, product liability history and financial strength. We estimate that our largest supplier accounted for
approximately 19 percent of our 2010 purchases of equipment, measured on a dollar basis, and that our 10 largest suppliers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 52 percent of such purchases. We believe we have sufficient alternative sources
of supply available for each of our major equipment categories.

Information Technology Systems

In support of our rental business, we have information technology systems which facilitate rapid and informed decision-making and enable
us to respond quickly to changing market conditions. Each branch is equipped with one or more workstations that are electronically linked to our other locations and to our IBM System i™ system located at our data center. Rental transactions can
be entered at these workstations and processed on a real-time basis. Management, branch and call center personnel can access these systems 24 hours a day.

These systems:



•enable branch personnel to (i) determine equipment availability, (ii) access all equipment within a geographic region and arrange for
equipment to be delivered from anywhere in the region directly to the customer, (iii) monitor business activity on a real-time basis and (iv) obtain customized reports on a wide range of operating and financial data, including equipment
utilization, rental rate trends, maintenance histories and customer transaction histories;



•permit customers to access their accounts online; and



•allow management to obtain a wide range of operational and financial data.







Our information technology systems and website are supported by our in-house group of
information technology specialists working in conjunction with our strategic technology partners and service providers. This group trains our branch personnel; upgrades and customizes our systems; provides hardware and technology support; operates a
support desk to assist branch and other personnel in the day-to-day use of the systems; extends the systems to newly acquired locations; and manages our website.

Leveraging information technology to achieve greater efficiencies and improve customer service is a critical element of our strategy. In 2010, we made the following investments in the area of technology:



•Pricing Optimization: We completed a company-wide rollout of new price optimization software. This new pricing system includes customer-centric
pricing (differentiated pricing based on specific customer attributes) which is available in the branch rental system and is provided in real-time to our sales representatives in the field on their smartphones;



•Field Automation Strategy and Technology:We completed an asset tagging process using wifi handheld computers to barcode the rental assets in
our branches. We continued to pilot the use of wireless handheld computers with GPS capabilities and route optimization and dispatching software for the delivery and pick-up of our equipment to improve service to our customers while operating more
efficiently in our branches. In 2011, we expect to expand this program and commence a company-wide deployment of handheld GPS devices and route optimization and dispatching software;



•Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”):We continued to improve our VoIP voice communication systems for our call center, credit
offices and a group of pilot branches, to better answer, transfer and route calls to provide improved customer service and internal collaboration. Our VoIP systems allow us to route calls to other branches in the area or to our call center when all
branch personnel are busy serving customers;



•Customer Service Scorecard:All of our branches utilize a customer service scorecard to improve and monitor their performance across five
critical dimensions: service response time, on-time delivery, off-rent pick-up time, equipment availability and billing dispute resolution. In 2010, we implemented scorecards reflecting these service metrics for individual customers;



•Enterprise Data Warehouse:We initially implemented an enterprise data warehouse focused on supporting our customer service and sales force
automation initiatives in 2009. In 2010, we implemented additional reporting packages within the enterprise data warehouse focused on customer relationship management, sales force effectiveness, financial management and operations management.
Additionally, automated campaigns and leads from internal and external data sources were routed to our sales force automation system to improve customer retention and increase our share of wallet. In 2011, we expect to implement additional reporting
packages that will target sales, operations and financial performance as well as customer and product profitability; and



•Financial Systems:We upgraded our general ledger, accounts payable, asset management and financial planning and forecasting systems to improve
our financial close and planning/forecasting processes.

Each of these investments is aligned with our
strategic focus on customer service and operational efficiencies.

We have a fully functional back-up facility designed to
enable business continuity for our core rental and financial business systems in the event that our main computer facility becomes inoperative. This back-up facility also allows us to perform system upgrades and maintenance without interfering with
the normal ongoing operation of our information technology systems.







Competition

The U.S. equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. As the largest equipment rental company in the industry, we estimate that we have an approximate nine percent market share and that
the four largest companies account for approximately 23 percent of industry revenue, based on 2009 revenues from construction and industrial equipment as measured by the American Rental Association (“ARA”). Our competitors primarily
include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations; regional competitors that operate in one or more states; public companies or divisions of public companies that operate nationally or internationally; and equipment vendors and
dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of this environment because, as a larger company, we have more resources and certain competitive advantages over our smaller
competitors. These advantages include greater purchasing power, the ability to provide customers with a broader range of equipment and services, and greater flexibility to transfer equipment among locations in response to, and in anticipation of,
customer demand. The fragmented nature of the industry and our relatively small market share, however, may adversely impact our ability to mitigate rate pressure.

Environmental and Safety Regulations

Our operations are subject to
numerous laws governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality. Our operations generally do not raise
significant environmental risks, but we use and store hazardous materials as part of maintaining our rental equipment fleet and the overall operations of our business, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and
store and dispense petroleum products from above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. Under environmental and safety laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating
contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. We incur ongoing expenses associated with the performance of
appropriate investigation and remediation activities at certain of our locations.

Employees

We have approximately 7,300 employees. Of these, approximately 2,500 are salaried personnel and approximately 4,800 are hourly personnel.
Collective bargaining agreements relating to 50 separate locations cover approximately 600 of our employees. We monitor employee satisfaction through ongoing surveys and consider our relationship with our employees to be good.

Available Information

We make available on our Internet website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as well as our other SEC filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our website address ishttp://www.ur.com. The
information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this document.



