Item 1.Business

General

United Rentals is the largest equipment rental company in the world and our network consists of 569 rental locations in the United States,
Canada and Mexico. We offer approximately 3,000 classes of equipment for rent to customers that include construction and industrial companies, manufacturers, utilities, municipalities, homeowners, government entities and others. In 2009, we
generated total revenues of $2.4 billion, including $1.8 billion of equipment rental revenue.

As of December 31, 2009,
our fleet of rental equipment included approximately 220,000 units with a total original equipment cost (“OEC”), based on initial consideration paid, of $3.8 billion, compared with $4.1 billion at December 31, 2008. Our fleet age,
which is calculated on a unit-weighted basis, was 42.4 months at December 31, 2009 compared with 39.2 months at December 31, 2008. The fleet includes:



•General construction and industrial equipment, such as backhoes, skid-steer loaders, forklifts, earthmoving equipment and material handling
equipment;



•Aerial work platforms,such as boom lifts and scissor lifts;



•General tools and light equipment, such as pressure washers, water pumps, generators, heaters and power tools; and



•Trench safety equipment, such as trench shields, aluminum hydraulic shoring systems, slide rails, crossing plates, construction lasers and line
testing equipment for underground work.

In addition to renting equipment, we sell new and used equipment as
well as related contractor supplies, parts and service.

Strategy

For the past several years, our strategy has focused on establishing a superior standard of customer service, particularly with larger
accounts, while generating significant free cash flow and positioning the business to grow our earnings at higher margins. Three key elements of this strategy are: a consistent focus on our core rental business; the optimization of our rental fleet
and branch network, both in terms of composition and management;







and greater efficiency with significant reductions in our operating costs. Although 2009 was challenging for both our company and the U.S. equipment rental industry, our 2009 achievements in
pursuing this strategy included:



•An increase in the proportion of our revenues that is derived from National Accounts from 21 percent in 2008 to 24 percent in 2009;



•Full year free cash flow generation of $367 million in 2009, compared with $335 million in 2008;



•Continued improvement in fleet management, including a record average $1.4 billion OEC of fleet per quarter transferred among branches to deploy it in
areas of greater earning potential;



•A reduction in our employee headcount from approximately 9,900 at December 31, 2008, to approximately 8,000 at December 31, 2009;



•A reduction in our network of rental locations, from 628 branches at December 31, 2008, to 569 branches at December 31, 2009;



•A year-over-year reduction in cost of rentals, excluding depreciation, of $227 million, or 20.0 percent, which partially offset the impact of lower
equipment rental revenue in a weak construction environment;



•A year-over-year reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses of $101 million, or 19.8 percent; and



•An improvement in the gross margin on sales of contractor supplies to 26.4 percent for 2009, compared to 23.6 percent for 2008.

In 2010, we will continue to focus on optimizing our core rental business, strengthening our customer
service capabilities, implementing disciplined cost controls, and generating free cash flow. Additionally, we will focus on:



•Further increasing the proportion of our revenues that is derived from National Accounts and other large customers. To the extent we are successful at
increasing the proportion of our revenues derived from National Accounts and other large customers and industrial accounts, we believe that over the long-term we can improve our equipment rental gross margins and overall profitability as these
accounts tend to have higher utilization levels and can be serviced more cost effectively than transactional customers;



•Accelerating our pursuit of opportunities in the industrial marketplace, where we believe our depth of resources and branch footprint give us a
competitive advantage. Moreover, industrial equipment demand is subject to different cyclical pressures than construction demand, and is under-penetrated in terms of rental potential;



•Leveraging technology and training to improve rental rate performance; and



•Optimizing our field operations to improve sales force effectiveness.

Although the depth and duration of the current economic downturn has been more pronounced than previous recessions, we believe our strategy,
coupled with our competitive advantages of size, disciplined purchasing power, industry experience, superior customer service capabilities and strong balance sheet, has positioned us to navigate the economic downturn in a manner that will strengthen
our leadership position in a recovery and improve our returns to stockholders.

Industry Overview

We serve four principal end-markets in the North American equipment rental industry: commercial construction, infrastructure, industrial and
residential. Based on an analysis of our charge customer’s Standard Industrial Classification, or SIC, codes, and as measured by our 2009 total revenues: Commercial construction rentals for the construction and remodeling of office, retail,
lodging and healthcare and other commercial facilities, represent approximately 59 percent of our business; infrastructure rentals related to the building of







public structures such as bridges, highways, power plants and airports, represent approximately 15 percent; industrial rentals to manufacturers, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, ship
builders, utilities and other industries represent approximately 18 percent; and residential rentals for the construction and renovation of homes represents about 8 percent of our business.

Given the relative significance of commercial construction to our overall revenues, our business is particularly sensitive to changes in
activity in this end-market. According to the National Bureau of Economic Research, a recession in the United States began in December 2007 and, as a consequence, private non-residential (commercial) construction weakened throughout 2008 and
2009. The decline in our operating environment was exacerbated by the credit market crisis which began in late 2008 and the ongoing constraint this has placed on new project starts. Based on a consensus of leading national forecasts for
non-residential construction activity, we expect commercial construction spending to decline further in 2010, albeit at a slower pace than in 2009.

Although there are significant near-term challenges that will suppress equipment rental demand through the first half of 2010 and perhaps beyond, we believe that the long-term growth prospects for the
equipment rental industry in North America are favorable. Beyond the dynamics of an economic recovery, we believe that expansion will also be driven by the elevation of the industry’s profile, in particular for the larger equipment rental
companies which have the geographic footprint necessary to service large national accounts, and end-markets that increasingly appreciate the many benefits of renting equipment rather than owning it. These benefits include:



•Avoidance of large capital investments required for new equipment purchases;



•Access to the right equipment for a particular job;



•Elimination of many storage, maintenance, repair and transportation costs; and



•Access to the latest equipment technologies and safety developments without the need for continuous investment.

Competitive Advantages

We
believe that we benefit from the following competitive advantages:

Large and Diverse Rental Fleet. We manage
our rental fleet, which is the largest and most comprehensive in the industry, utilizing a life-cycle approach that focuses on satisfying customer demand and optimizing utilization levels. Additionally, as part of this life-cycle approach, we
closely monitor repairs and maintenance expense and can anticipate, based on our extensive experience with this type of equipment, the optimum time to dispose of an asset.

Our large and diverse fleet allows us to serve large customers that require substantial quantities and/or wide varieties of equipment. In
addition, we believe our intense focus on serving national account and other large customers with a multi-regional presence should allow us to improve our performance and enhance our market leadership position.

Significant Purchasing Power. We purchase large amounts of equipment, contractor supplies and other items, which enables us to
negotiate favorable pricing, warranty and other terms with our vendors.

National Account Program. Our national
account sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with large companies, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. We offer our national account customers the benefits of a consistent level of service
across North America, a wide selection of equipment and a single point of contact for all their equipment needs. Revenues from national account customers were approximately $565 million and $675 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and
represented







approximately 24 and 21 percent of our total revenues in 2009 and 2008, respectively. With our continued focus on large national accounts for 2010, we expect this percentage to increase over
time.

Operating Efficiencies. We benefit from the following operating efficiencies:



•Equipment Sharing Among Branches. We generally group our branches into districts of six to 12 locations that are in the same geographic area.
Each branch within a region can access equipment located elsewhere in the region. This sharing increases equipment utilization because equipment that is idle at one branch can be marketed and rented through other branches. Additionally, fleet
sharing allows us to be more disciplined with our capital spend.



•National Call Center. We have a national call center in Tampa, Florida that handles all 1-800-UR-RENTS telephone calls without having to route
them to individual branches. This provides us with the ability to provide a more uniform quality experience to customers, manage fleet sharing more effectively and free up branch employee time.



•Consolidation of Common Functions. We reduce costs through the consolidation of functions that are common to our branches, such as accounts
payable, payroll, benefits and risk management, information technology and credit and collection.

Strong Brand Recognition. As the largest equipment rental company in the United States, we have strong brand recognition, which helps us to attract new customers and build customer loyalty.

Geographic and Customer Diversity. We have 569 rental locations in 48 states, ten Canadian provinces and Mexico and serve
customers that range from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and homeowners. We believe that our geographic and customer diversity provide us with many advantages including:



•enabling us to better serve national account customers with multiple locations;



•helping us achieve favorable resale prices by allowing us to access used equipment resale markets across North America; and



•reducing our dependence on any particular customer.

For additional financial information regarding our geographic diversity, see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.

Strong and Motivated Branch Management. Each of our full-service branches has a branch manager who is supervised by a district manager. We believe that our managers are among the most
knowledgeable and experienced in the industry and we empower them, within budgetary guidelines, to make day-to-day decisions concerning branch matters. Each regional office has a management team that monitors branch, district and regional
performance with extensive systems and controls, including performance benchmarks and detailed monthly operating reviews.

Employee Training Programs.We are dedicated to providing training and development opportunities to our employees. In 2009, our employees enhanced their skills through over 325,000 hours of training, including
equipment-related training from our suppliers and online courses covering a variety of subjects.

Risk Management and
Safety Programs. Our risk management department is staffed by experienced professionals directing the procurement of insurance, managing claims made against the company, and developing loss prevention programs to address workplace safety,
driver safety and customer safety. The department’s primary focus is on the protection of the employees, assets and net income of the company, and protecting the company from liability for accidental loss.







Segment Information

We have two reportable segments–general rentals and trench safety, pump and power. Segment financial information is presented in note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. The general rentals
segment includes the rental of construction, aerial, industrial and homeowner equipment and related services and activities. The general rentals segment’s customers include construction and industrial companies, manufacturers, utilities,
municipalities and homeowners. The general rentals segment comprises seven geographic regions–the Southwest, Gulf, Northwest, Southeast, Midwest, East, and the Northeast Canada–as well as the Aerial West region and operates throughout the
United States and Canada and has one location in Mexico. The trench safety, pump and power segment includes the rental of specialty construction products and related services. The trench safety, pump and power segment’s customers include
construction companies involved in infrastructure projects, municipalities and industrial companies. This segment operates in the United States and has one location in Canada.

Products and Services

Our principal products and services are described
below.

Equipment Rental. We offer for rent approximately 3,000 classes of rental equipment on an hourly, daily,
weekly or monthly basis. The types of equipment that we offer include general construction and industrial equipment; aerial work platforms; trench safety equipment; and general tools and light equipment. The unit-weighted age of our fleet was 42.4
months at December 31, 2009, compared to 39.2 months at December 31, 2008. Although we expect to age our fleet in 2010, we believe this decision is appropriate given our expectations for reduced construction activity through the first half
of 2010 and perhaps beyond. Additionally, aging the fleet will allow us to generate greater cash flows than we otherwise would.

Sales of Rental Equipment.We routinely sell used rental equipment and invest in new equipment in order to manage repairs and maintenance costs, as well as the age, composition and size of our fleet. We also sell used
equipment in response to customer demand for this equipment. The rate at which we replace used equipment with new equipment depends on a number of factors, including changing general economic conditions, growth opportunities, the market for used
equipment, the age of the fleet and the need to adjust fleet composition to meet customer requirements as well as local demand.

We utilize many channels to sell used equipment: through our national sales force, which can access many resale markets across North America; at auction; through brokers; and directly to manufacturers. We also sell used equipment through
our website, which includes an online database of used equipment available for sale. In addition, we hold United Rentals Certified Auctions on eBay to provide customers with another convenient online tool for purchasing used equipment.

New Equipment Sales. We sell equipment for many leading equipment manufacturers. The manufacturers that we represent and
the brands that we carry include: Genie, JLG and Skyjack (aerial lifts); Multiquip, Wacker and Honda USA (compaction equipment, generators and pumps); Sullair (compressors); Skytrak and Lull (rough terrain reach forklifts); Takeuchi (skid-steer
loaders); Terex (telehandlers); and DeWalt (generators). The type of new equipment that we sell varies by location.

Contractor Supplies Sales. We sell a variety of contractor supplies including construction consumables, tools, small equipment and safety supplies. Our target customers for contractor supplies are our existing rental
customers.

Service and Other Revenues. We also offer repair, maintenance and rental protection services and
sell parts for equipment that is owned by our customers. Our target customers for these types of ancillary services are our current rental customers as well as those who purchase both new and used equipment from our branches.







RENTALMAN(R)and INFOMANAGER(R)Software. We have two subsidiaries that develop and market software. One of the subsidiaries develops and markets RENTALMAN(R), which is an enterprise resource planning application used by ourselves and most of the other largest equipment
rental companies. The other subsidiary develops and markets INFOMANAGER(R), which provides a complete solution for creating an advanced business intelligence system. INFOMANAGER(R)helps with extracting raw data from transactional applications, transforming it into meaningful information and
saving it in a database that is specifically optimized for analytical use.

Customers

Our customer base is highly diversified and ranges from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and homeowners. In 2009, our largest
customer accounted for less than one percent of our revenues and our top ten customers accounted for less than three percent of our revenues. Historically, over 90 percent of our business each year, as measured by revenues, has been generated from
previous customers.

Our customer base varies by branch and is determined by several factors, including the equipment mix and
marketing focus of the particular branch as well as the business composition of the local economy, including construction opportunities with different customers. Our customers include:



•construction companies that use equipment for constructing and renovating commercial buildings, warehouses, industrial and manufacturing plants, office
parks, airports, residential developments and other facilities;



•industrial companies—such as manufacturers, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, ship builders and utilities—that use equipment for
plant maintenance, upgrades, expansion and construction;



•municipalities that require equipment for a variety of purposes; and



•homeowners and other individuals that use equipment for projects that range from simple repairs to major renovations.

Our business is seasonal, with demand for our rental equipment tending to be lower in the winter months.

Sales and Marketing

We
market our products and services through multiple channels as described below.

Sales Force. We have
approximately 1,900 sales people, including approximately 1,000 outside sales representatives who frequently travel to customer jobsites and meet with customers, and approximately 900 inside sales people who work in our branches and at our national
call center. Our sales people are responsible for calling on existing and potential customers as well as assisting our customers in planning for their equipment needs. We have ongoing programs for training our employees in sales and service skills
and on strategies for maximizing the value of each transaction.

National Account Program. Our national account
sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with large customers, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. Our national account team, which consists of approximately 65 sales professionals and includes
those who service governmental agencies, closely coordinates its efforts with the local sales force in each area.

E-Rentals. Our customers can rent or buy equipment online 24 hours a day, seven days a week, at our E-Rentals portal, which can be found athttp://www.ur.com.Our customers can also use our URdata®application to access real-time reports on their business activity with us.

Advertising. We promote our business through local and national advertising in various media, including trade publications,
yellow pages, the Internet, radio and direct mail. We also regularly participate in industry trade shows and conferences and sponsor a variety of local promotional events.







Suppliers

Our strategic approach with respect to our suppliers is to maintain the minimum number of suppliers per category of equipment that can satisfy our anticipated volume and business requirements. This
approach is designed to ensure the terms we negotiate are competitive and that there is sufficient product available to meet anticipated customer demand. We utilize a comprehensive selection process to determine our equipment vendors. We consider
product capabilities and industry position, the terms being offered, product liability history and financial strength. We estimate that our largest supplier accounted for approximately 25 percent of our 2009 purchases of equipment, measured on a
dollar basis, and that our 10 largest suppliers accounted for approximately 65 percent of such purchases. We believe we have sufficient alternative sources of supply available for each of our major equipment categories.

Information Technology Systems

In support of our rental business, we have information technology systems which facilitate rapid and informed decision-making and enable us to respond quickly to changing market conditions. Each branch is equipped with one or more
workstations that are electronically linked to our other locations and to our IBM System i™ system located at our data center. Rental transactions can be entered at these workstations and processed on a real-time basis. Management, branch and
call center personnel can access these systems 24 hours a day.

These systems:



•enable branch personnel to (i) determine equipment availability, (ii) access all equipment within a geographic region and arrange for
equipment to be delivered from anywhere in the region directly to the customer, (iii) monitor business activity on a real-time basis and (iv) obtain customized reports on a wide range of operating and financial data, including equipment
utilization, rental rate trends, maintenance histories and customer transaction histories;



•permit customers to access their accounts online; and



•allow management to obtain a wide range of operational and financial data.

Our information technology systems and website are supported by our in-house group of information technology specialists working in
conjunction with our strategic technology partners and service providers. This group trains our branch personnel; upgrades and customizes our systems; provides hardware and technology support; operates a support desk to assist branch and other
personnel in the day-to-day use of the systems; extends the systems to newly acquired locations; and manages our website.

Leveraging information technology to achieve greater efficiencies and improve customer service is a critical element of our strategy. In 2009, we made the following investments in the area of technology:



•Pricing Optimization: We piloted and commenced a company-wide rollout of new price optimization software. This new pricing system, which should
be fully deployed to all of our branches in 2010, will include customer-centric pricing made available in the branch rental system as well as provided in real-time to our sales representatives in the field on their smartphones;



•Field Automation Strategy and Technology:We piloted an asset tagging process using wifi handheld computers to barcode the rental assets in our
branches. In 2010, we will pilot and begin a company-wide deployment of handheld GPS devices and route optimization and dispatching software for the delivery and pick-up of our equipment to improve service to our customers while operating more
efficiently in our branches;



•Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”):We upgraded our voice communication systems to VoIP for our call centers, credit offices and a
group of pilot branches, to better answer, transfer and route calls to provide improved customer service and internal collaboration;







•Customer Service Scorecard:All of our branches utilize a customer service scorecard to improve and monitor their performance across five
critical dimensions: service response time, on-time delivery, off-rent pick-up time, equipment availability and billing dispute resolution; and



•Enterprise Data Warehouse:We implemented the first release of an enterprise data warehouse focused on supporting our customer service and sales
force automation initiatives. Future releases in 2010 will target operations and financial management.

Each
of these investments is aligned with our strategic focus on customer service and operational efficiencies.

We have a fully
functional back-up facility designed to enable business continuity for our core rental and financial business systems in the event that our main computer facility becomes inoperative. This backup facility also allows us to perform system upgrades
and maintenance without interfering with the normal ongoing operation of our information technology systems.

Competition

The U.S. equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. As the largest equipment rental company in the industry, we
estimate that we have an approximate nine percent market share and that the four largest companies account for approximately 26 percent of industry revenue, based on 2008 revenues from construction and industrial equipment as measured by the
American Rental Association (“ARA”). Our competitors primarily include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations; regional competitors which operate in one or more states; public companies or divisions of public
companies that operate nationally or internationally; and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of this environment because, as a larger company, we
have more resources and certain competitive advantages over our smaller competitors. These advantages include greater purchasing power, the ability to provide customers with a broader range of equipment and services, and greater flexibility to
transfer equipment among locations in response to, and in anticipation of, customer demand. Although these considerations benefit us in many ways, the fragmented nature of the industry, and our relatively small market share, adversely impact our
ability to mitigate rate pressure, especially in a distressed economic environment like we are currently experiencing.

Environmental and
Safety Regulations

Our operations are subject to numerous laws governing environmental protection and occupational health
and safety matters. These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality. Our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use and store hazardous materials
as part of maintaining our rental equipment fleet and the overall operations of our business, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from above-ground storage tanks
located at certain of our locations. Under environmental and safety laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for
disposal or treatment regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. We incur ongoing expenses associated with the performance of appropriate investigation and remediation activities at certain of our locations.

Employees

In connection with our ongoing efforts to reduce costs, and in anticipation of the challenging economic environment, we significantly reduced our employee headcount from approximately 10,900 at January 1, 2008 to approximately 9,900 at
January 1, 2009 and approximately 8,000 at January 1, 2010. Of these, approximately 2,700 are salaried personnel and approximately 5,300 are hourly personnel. Collective bargaining agreements relating to 57 separate locations cover
approximately 600 of our employees. We monitor employee satisfaction through ongoing surveys and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good.







Available Information

We make available on our Internet website, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as well as our
other SEC filings, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our website address ishttp://www.ur.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in
this document.



