
10-K405
10-K



   

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, D.C. 20549
                               _________

                               FORM 10-K

   X    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

        For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

                              OR

   __   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

   For the transition period from _________ to _________________

                     Commission file number  1-7928

                       BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.
          (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                                   94-1381833
   (State or other jurisdiction of                (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                 Identification No.)

    1000 Alfred Nobel Drive, Hercules, CA                  94547
   (Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code (510) 724-7000

   
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                  NONE

        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
   all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
   Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
   (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
   file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such filing
   requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No _____





          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
   pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
   and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
   in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
   reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
   Form 10-K.  [X]



                  Documents Incorporated by Reference


            Document                             Form 10-K Parts
   _________________________________________    ____________________
   (1) Annual Report to Stockholders for the
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
       (specified portions)                           I, II, IV
   (2) Definitive Proxy Statement to be mailed
       to stockholders in connection with the
       registrant's 1995 Annual Meeting of
       Stockholders (specified portions)                 III


   

                               P A R T  I
   ITEM 1. BUSINESS

   General

   Founded  in 1957,  Bio-Rad Laboratories,  Inc. ("Bio-Rad"  or the
   "Company") was  initially engaged in the  development and produc-
   tion of specialty chemicals  used in biochemical,  pharmaceutical
   and  other life science research applications.  In 1967, the Com-
   pany entered the field of  clinical diagnostics with the develop-
   ment of its  first test  kit based on  separation techniques  and
   materials developed for life sciences research.  Recognizing that
   the  fields of  clinical diagnostics  and life  sciences research
   were evolving toward more automated  techniques, Bio-Rad expanded
   into  the field  of analytical  and measuring  instrument systems
   with the acquisition of Block Engineering in 1978, Polaron Equip-
   ment Limited  in 1982  and the Vickers  Instrument businesses  in
   1989.

   As Bio-Rad broadened its  product lines, it has also  widened its
   geographical market.  The Company controls its distribution chan-
   nels   in   nineteen   countries  outside   the   U.S.A.  through
   subsidiaries whose primary focus  is customer service and product
   distribution.

   Bio-Rad  manufactures and  supplies  to  life sciences  research,
   health   care,  analytical  chemistry,  semiconductor  and  other
   markets  a broad range of  products and systems  used to separate
   complex  chemical  and  biological  materials  and  to  identify,
   analyze and purify their components.

   Business Segments

   The Company  operates in three industry  segments designated Life
   Science, Clinical Diagnostics  and Analytical Instruments.   Each
   operates  in both the U.S. and international markets.  For finan-
   cial information on geographic and industry segments, see Note 13
   on pages 21 and  22 of Exhibit 13.1,  which note is  incorporated
   herein by reference.  Exhibit 13.1 is the Company's  Consolidated
   Financial Statements, which is an excerpt from the Company's 1994
   Annual Report to Stockholders.

   Description of Business

                             Life Science

   The  Life  Science  segment   develops,  manufactures  and  sells
   electrophoresis,  gene   transfer,  chromatography,  immunoassay,
   imaging and image analysis products  including specialty chemical
   and  biological materials,  separation and  purification systems,
   laser  scanning  confocal  microscopes  and  accessories.   These
   products  are  used  to  separate and  analyze  complex  chemical
   mixtures  and   are  sold  to   universities,  private  industry,


   

   government agencies and clinical and hospital laboratories.  They
   are  used in  biochemistry, molecular  biology,  cancer research,
   immunology, and other areas of life science and genetic research.
   In addition, these products are sold to industrial and commercial
   customers,  including  pharmaceutical,  biotechnology   and  food
   processing companies, for research and development, manufacturing
   and quality control applications.

                         Clinical Diagnostics

   The  Clinical  Diagnostics   segment  develops  and  manufactures
   automated  test  systems,  test  kits  and  specialized   quality
   controls  for  the healthcare  market.    Hospitals and  clinical
   laboratories   use  these   products  to  assist   physicians  in
   diagnosing and monitoring their patients.  Many of these products
   are based on innovative  applications of technologies  (including
   immunoassay,   chromatography  and   electrophoresis)  originally
   developed  for life  science  research.   Bio-Rad also  develops,
   manufactures  and distributes  controls for  immunoassay testing,
   therapeutic drug monitoring and other applications.

                        Analytical Instruments

   Bio-Rad's  Analytical Instruments segment  develops, produces and
   sells  FT-IR  spectrometer  systems,   semiconductor  measurement
   instruments and  spectral reference publications.   Purchasers of
   these   products   include  government   agencies,  universities,
   research institutions and  industrial companies.   These products
   are used in industrial  and scientific research, in manufacturing
   and  in quality control  applications.    The confocal microscope
   product  line   has  been  reclassified  to   Life  Science  from
   Analytical Instruments in 1994.  All prior period information was
   restated for comparability.

   Raw Materials and Components

   The  Company utilizes  a  wide variety  of chemicals,  biological
   materials, electronic components, machined metal parts,   optical
   parts,  minicomputers  and peripheral  devices.    Most of  these
   materials and components are  available from numerous sources and
   the Company  has not experienced difficulty  in securing adequate
   supplies.

   Patents and Trademarks

   The  Company owns  numerous  U.S. and  international patents  and
   patent licenses.  Bio-Rad believes,  however, that its ability to
   develop  and manufacture  its products  depends primarily  on its
   know-how, technology  and special  skills.  Under  several patent
   license  agreements,  Bio-Rad  pays  royalties on  the  sales  of
   certain  products.    Bio-Rad  views these  patents  and  license
   agreements as valuable assets but believes that no one of them is
   of material  importance to  its  business as  a whole  or to  its
   individual segments.



   

   Seasonal Operations and Backlog

   The Company's  business is not inherently  seasonal, however, the
   European  custom  of  concentrating  vacation during  the  summer
   months usually has had  a negative impact on third  quarter sales
   volume and results.

   For the most part, the Company operates  in markets characterized
   by short lead times and the absence of significant backlogs.  The
   Company  produces several analytical instruments against an order
   backlog.   Management has  concluded that backlog  information is
   not material to the Company's business as a whole.

   Sales and Marketing

   Each of Bio-Rad's divisions  maintains a sales force or  works in
   conjunction with other divisions to sell its products on a direct
   basis.     Each  sales  force  is  technically   trained  in  the
   disciplines  associated  with  its  products.    Sales  are  also
   generated   through  direct mail  advertising, exhibits  at trade
   shows  and technical  meetings, and  by extensive  advertising in
   technical and  trade publications.   Sales and  marketing efforts
   are  augmented  by  technical  service  departments  that  assist
   customers  in effective  product utilization  and in  new product
   applications.  Bio-Rad  also produces  and distributes  technical
   literature and holds  seminars for  customers on the  use of  its
   products.  Bio-Rad products  are sold to a broad  and diversified
   customer base.  In 1994, no single customer accounted for as much
   as  4% of any  segment's total sales.   However, a  number of the
   Company's   customers,  particularly   in   Life   Science,   are
   substantially  dependent for  their funding on  government grants
   and research contracts.

   Most  of  the  Company's  international sales  are  generated  by
   wholly-owned subsidiaries and their branch offices in
   Australia, Austria, Belgium,  Canada, Denmark, England,  Finland,
   France, Germany,  Hong Kong,  Italy, Japan, the  Netherlands, New
   Zealand, People's Republic of China, Singapore, Spain, Sweden and
   Switzerland.    Certain  of these  subsidiaries  also  have
   manufacturing  facilities.     While  Bio-Rad's   international
   operations  are  subject  to  certain  risks  common  to  foreign
   operations   in  general,   such  as   changes  in   governmental
   regulations,  import  restrictions  and  foreign  exchange
   fluctuations,  the  Company's international  operations   are
   principally in  developed nations,  which the Company  regards as
   presenting no significantly greater  risks to its operations than
   are present in the United States.

   Competition

   Most markets served by  Bio-Rad's product groups are competitive.


   

   Bio-Rad's  competitors  range in  size  from  start-ups to  large
   multi-nationals.   Reliable independent information  on sales and
   market share of products produced by Bio-Rad's competitors is not
   generally available.  Bio-Rad believes, however, based on its own
   marketing information, that  while some competitors are  dominant
   with  respect to  certain  individual products,  no one  company,
   including Bio-Rad, is dominant with respect to a material portion
   of any segment of Bio-Rad's business.

   Product Research and Development

   The Company conducts  extensive product research and  development
   activities in all areas of its business, employing  approximately
   300  people   worldwide  in  these  activities.     Research  and
   development  have played a major role in Bio-Rad's growth and are
   expected to  continue to do so  in the future.   New products and
   new  applications  for  existing  products  are  being  developed
   continuously  by   Bio-Rad's  teams  of  researchers.     In  its
   development and testing of  new products and applications Bio-Rad
   consults   with   scientific   and   medical   professionals   at
   universities, at hospitals and  medical schools, and in industry.
   Bio-Rad  spent approximately  $30.2  million,  $34.2 million  and
   $34.7  million on R&D activities during  the years ended December
   31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

   Regulatory Matters

   Certain of the Company's products (primarily diagnostic products)
   are subject to regulation  in the United States by the Center for
   Devices and  Radiological Health  of the  United States  Food and
   Drug Administration (FDA) and in other jurisdictions by state and
   foreign government  authorities.   FDA  regulations require  that
   some  new products  have pre-marketing  approval  by the  FDA and
   require  certain  of Bio-Rad's  products  to  be manufactured  in
   accordance with "good manufacturing practices", to be extensively
   tested  and to be properly  labeled to disclose  test results and
   performance claims and limitations.  The Company is also  subject
   to government regulation of  the use and handling of  radioactive
   materials and controlled substances.   The Company believes it is
   in compliance with these and other regulations.

   Certain  of the Company's production processes involve the use of
   materials whose  use  is  subject to  federal,  state  and  local
   environmental  regulations. The  Company regularly  evaluates its
   processes  and procedures  to ensure  compliance with  applicable
   environmental standards and regulations.   Although, from time to
   time, modification  of processes  and procedures may  be required
   which will require additional  capital expenditures, the  Company
   presently  believes  that  any  such expenditures  will  have  no
   material adverse  effect on the  future results of  operations or
   the financial position of the Company.



   


   Employees

   At December  31, 1994, Bio-Rad had  approximately 2,330 full-time
   employees.  Fewer than 7% of Bio-Rad's employees are covered by a
   collective bargaining agreement which  will expire on October 31,
   1998.   Bio-Rad considers its employee relations in general to be
   good.

   ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

   Bio-Rad  owns  its Corporate  headquarters  located  in Hercules,
   California.  The principal  manufacturing and research  locations
   for each segment are as follows:

     Life Science           Richmond, California        Owned/Leased
                            Hercules, California        Owned
                            Hemel Hempstead, England    Leased
                            Milan, Italy                Leased

     Clinical Diagnostics   Hercules, California        Owned/Leased
                            Anaheim, California         Leased
                            Benicia, California         Leased
                            Munich, Germany             Leased

     Analytical Instruments Cambridge, Massachusetts    Owned/Leased
                            York, England               Owned
                            Hemel Hempstead, England    Leased
                            Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Owned

   Most   manufacturing   and   research   facilities   also   house
   administration,  sales   and  distribution  activities   for  the
   segment.

   In addition,  the Company leases office  and warehouse facilities
   in    California,  New York,  Pennsylvania,  Australia,  Austria,
   Belgium, Canada, Denmark, England, Finland, France, Germany, Hong
   Kong, India, Israel, Italy,  Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
   People's  Republic  of   China,  Singapore,  Spain,   Sweden  and
   Switzerland.    These   facilities  are   used  principally   for
   administration,  sales, service  and distribution  for  all three
   segments.

   All  facilities are believed to be adequate at present to support
   the  Company's current  and anticipated  production requirements.
   Historically, adequate  space to  expand  sales and  distribution
   channels has been available and is leased as needed.





   

   ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   Note 11,  "Legal Proceedings", appearing on  pages 19 and 20   of
   Exhibit 13.1 is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   There  were no  matters  submitted to  a  vote of  the  Company's
   security  holders during  the fourth quarter  of the  fiscal year
   covered by this report.


                              P A R T  II


   ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   Note 15, "Information Concerning Common Stock", appearing on page
   23 of Exhibit 13.1 is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

   The table headed "Summary  of Operations" appearing on page  1 of
   Exhibit 13.1 is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
            CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

   The  section  headed  "Management's Discussion  and  Analysis  of
   Results of Operations and Financial Condition" appearing on pages
   26   through  30  of  Exhibit  13.1  is  incorporated  herein  by
   reference.

   ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   The Report of Independent Public Accountants and the Consolidated
   Financial  Statements  and Notes  thereto  appearing  on pages  2
   through 25 of Exhibit 13.1 are incorporated herein by reference.


   ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
           ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   None.






   

                              P A R T  III


   ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   The sections labeled "Election of Directors" and "Compliance with
   Section  16(a) of  the Securities  Exchange Act  of 1934"  of the
   definitive Proxy  Statement mailed to stockholders  in connection
   with the  1995 Annual  Meeting of  Stockholders  (the 1995  Proxy
   Statement) are incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   The   sections  labeled   "Executive   Compensation   and   Other
   Information" and  "Compensation of  Directors" of the  1995 Proxy
   Statement are incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
             MANAGEMENT

   The section  labeled "Principal and  Management Stockholders"  of
   the 1995 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   The section labeled "Compensation of Directors" of the 1995 Proxy
   Statement is incorporated herein by reference.






   

                              P A R T  IV

   ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
             FORM 8-K

   (a) 1. Index to Financial Statements

          The following Consolidated Financial Statements are
          included in the 1994 Annual Report and are incorporated
          herein by reference pursuant to Item 8:
                                                          Page in
                                                        Exhibit 13.1
          Consolidated Balance Sheets
          at December 31, 1994 and 1993                     2-3

          Consolidated Statements of Income
          for each of the three years in the
          period ended December 31, 1994                    4

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
          for each of the three years in the period
          ended December 31, 1994                           5

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
          Stockholders' Equity for each of the three
          years in the period ended December 31, 1994       6

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        7-24

          Report of Independent Public Accountants          25

       2. Index to Financial Statement Schedule
                                                          Page in
                                                         Form 10-K
          Report of Independent Public Accountants
          on Schedule                                       9

          II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts              10

          All  other Financial  Statement Schedules  are  omitted because
          they  are not required  or because the  required information is
          included in the Consolidated  Financial Statements or the Notes
          thereto.

       3. Index to Exhibits

          The exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits on
          page 12 of this report are filed or incorporated by reference
          as part of this report.

   (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

        There were no reports on Form 8-K filed by the Company during
        the last quarter of the period covered by this report.


   

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS ON SCHEDULE


   To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of
   Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc.:


   We have  audited in  accordance with generally  accepted auditing
   standards, the consolidated financial statements included in Bio-
   Rad  Laboratories, Inc.'s  annual report  to stockholders  incor-
   porated  by  reference in  this Form  10-K,  and have  issued our
   report thereon dated February  7, 1995.   Our audit was made  for
   the purpose  of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a
   whole.  The  schedule listed  in the index,  Item 14(a)2, is  the
   responsibility of  the Company's management and  is presented for
   purposes   of  complying   with   the  Securities   and  Exchange
   Commission's  rules and is not part of the basic financial state-
   ments.  This  schedule has  been subjected to  the auditing  pro-
   cedures applied in  the audit of  the basic financial  statements
   and, in our opinion,  fairly states in all material  respects the
   financial  data required to be  set forth therein  in relation to
   the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                             /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP
                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

   San Francisco, California,
     February 7, 1995








   

   BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.
   SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
   Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992
   (In thousands)

    
    





   


                                 SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
   Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
   signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                            BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.


                                            By:  /s/ Sanford S. Wadler
                                                  Sanford S. Wadler
                                                      Secretary

                                            Date:   March 23, 1995

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
   this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf
   of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

   Principal Executive Officer:

     /s/  David Schwartz         President and Director   March 23, 1995
        (David Schwartz)

   Principal Financial Officer:

     /s/  Thomas L. Braje        Vice President,
        (Thomas L. Braje)         Chief Financial Officer  March 23, 1995


   Principal Accounting Officer:

     /s/  James R. Stark         Corporate Controller     March 23, 1995
        (James R. Stark)

   Other Directors:

     /s/  James J. Bennett       Director                 March 23, 1995
        (James J. Bennett)

     /s/  Albert J. Hillman      Director                 March 23, 1995
        (Albert J. Hillman)

     /s/  Philip L. Padou        Director                 March 23, 1995
        (Philip L. Padou)

     /s/  Alice N. Schwartz      Director                 March 23, 1995
        (Alice N. Schwartz)

     /s/  Norman Schwartz        Director                 March 23, 1995
        (Norman Schwartz)

     /s/  Burton A. Zabin        Director                 March 23, 1995
        (Burton A. Zabin)





   

                       BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.
                           INDEX TO EXHIBITS
                              ITEM 14(a)3


   The following documents are filed as part of this report:
   Exhibit No.

   3.1       Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as of
             September 15, 1988. (1)

   3.2       By-Laws of the Registrant, as amended February 19,
             1980. (2)

   10.4      1994 Stock Option Plan. (3)

   10.5      Amended 1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. (4)

   10.6      Employees' Deferred Profit Sharing Retirement Plan.

   10.9      Credit Agreement dated as of February 18, 1994, by and
             among the Registrant, The Lenders and The First
             National Bank of Chicago, as agent. (5)

   11.1      Computation of Earnings Per Share.

   13.1      Excerpt from Annual Report to Stockholders' for the
             fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (to be deemed filed
             only to the extent required by the instructions to
             exhibits for reports on Form 10-K).

   21.1      Listing of Subsidiaries.

   23.1      Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

   27.1      Financial Data Schedule.
   ________________________________________________________________

   (1)       Incorporated by reference from the Exhibits to the
             Company's Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1992, dated March 26, 1993.

   (2)       Incorporated by reference from the Exhibits to the
             Company's Registration Statement on Form S-7
             Registration No. 2-66797, which became effective
             April 22, 1980.

   (3)       Incorporated by reference from the Exhibits to the Company's
             Form S-8 filing, dated April 28, 1994.

   (4)       Incorporated by reference from the Exhibits to the Company's
             Form S-8 filing, dated April 28, 1994.

   (5)       Incorporated by reference from the Exhibits to the Company's
             Form 10-K filing for the fiscal year endedDecember 31, 1993,
             dated March 24, 1994.




