
10-K
10-K



   

                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, D.C. 20549
                               _________

                               FORM 10-K

   X    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                              OR

   __   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

   For the transition period from _________ to _________________

                     Commission file number  1-7928

                       BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.
          (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

            Delaware                                   94-1381833
   (State or Other Jurisdiction of                (I.R.S. Employer
    Incorporation or Organization)                 Identification No.)

    1000 Alfred Nobel Drive, Hercules, CA                  94547
   (Address of Principal Executive Offices)              (Zip Code)

   Registrant's telephone number, including area code (510) 724-7000

   
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                  NONE

        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
   all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
   Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
   (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
   file such reports),  and (2) has been subject to such filing
   requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No _____

          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
   pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
   and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge,
   in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
   reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
   Form 10-K.  [ ]

   

                  Documents Incorporated by Reference

            Document                             Form 10-K Parts
   _________________________________________    ____________________
   (1) Annual Report to Stockholders for the
       fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
       (specified portions)                           I, II, IV
   (2) Definitive Proxy Statement to be mailed
       to stockholders in connection with the
       registrant's 1999 Annual Meeting of
       Stockholders (specified portions)                 III

   

                               P A R T  I

   ITEM 1. BUSINESS

   General

   Founded in 1957, Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. ("Bio-Rad" or the
   "Company") was initially engaged in the development and produc-
   tion of specialty chemicals used in biochemical, pharmaceutical
   and other life science research applications.  In 1967, the Com-
   pany entered the field of clinical diagnostics with the develop-
   ment of its first test kit based on separation techniques and
   materials developed for life science research.  Recognizing that
   the fields of clinical diagnostics and life science research were
   evolving toward more automated techniques, Bio-Rad expanded into
   the field of analytical and measuring instrument systems through
   internal research and development efforts and acquisitions in the
   late 1970's and 1980's.

   As Bio-Rad broadened its product lines, it also expanded its
   geographical market.  The Company controls its distribution chan-
   nels in twenty-seven countries outside the U.S.A. through
   subsidiaries whose primary focus is customer service and product
   distribution.

   During 1996 and 1997, the Company made five acquisitions.  The
   assets acquired from Chiron Diagnostics Corporation and Chiron
   Corporation on December 5, 1997, enhanced the product line
   offering for diagnostic controls.  The remaining acquisitions
   broadened product line offerings within the Analytical
   Instruments and Life Science segments.  Bio-Rad manufactures and
   supplies the life science research, healthcare, analytical
   chemistry, semiconductor and other markets with a broad range of
   products and systems used to separate complex chemical and
   biological materials and to identify, analyze and purify their
   components.

   Description of Business

   Business Segments

   The Company operates in three industry segments designated Life
   Science, Clinical Diagnostics and Analytical Instruments.  Each
   operates in both the U.S. and international markets.  For a
   description of business and financial information on industry and
   geographic segments, see Note 14 on pages 19 through 22 of
   Exhibit 13.1, which is incorporated herein by reference.  Exhibit
   13.1 is the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, which is
   an excerpt from the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.

   Raw Materials and Components

   The Company utilizes a wide variety of chemicals, biological
   materials, electronic components, machined metal parts, optical
   parts, minicomputers and peripheral devices.  Most of these
   materials and components are available from numerous sources and
   the Company has not experienced difficulty in securing adequate
   supplies.

   

   Patents and Trademarks

   The Company owns numerous U.S. and international patents and
   patent licenses.  Bio-Rad believes, however, that its ability to
   develop and manufacture its products depends primarily on its
   know-how, technology and special skills.  Under several patent
   license agreements, Bio-Rad pays royalties on the sales of
   certain products.  Bio-Rad views these patents and license
   agreements as valuable assets, however, no individual agreement
   is of material importance to any segment or to the Company's
   business as a whole.

   Seasonal Operations and Backlog

   The Company's business is not inherently seasonal, however, the
   European custom of concentrating vacation during the summer
   months usually has had a negative impact on third quarter sales
   volume and operating income.

   For the most part, the Company operates in markets characterized
   by short lead times and the absence of significant backlogs.  The
   Company produces several analytical instruments against an order
   backlog.  Management has concluded that backlog information is
   not material to the Company's business as a whole.

   Sales and Marketing

   Each of Bio-Rad's segments maintains a sales force to sell its
   products on a direct basis.  Each sales force is technically
   trained in the disciplines associated with its products.  Sales
   are also generated  through direct mail advertising, exhibits at
   trade shows and technical meetings, telemarketing, and by
   extensive advertising in technical and trade publications.  Sales
   and marketing efforts are augmented by technical service
   departments that assist customers in effective product
   utilization and in new product applications.  Bio-Rad also
   produces and distributes technical literature and holds seminars
   for customers on the use of its products.  The Company maintains
   an internet website, http://www.bio-rad.com, to further enhance
   its marketing efforts.

   Bio-Rad products are sold to a broad and diversified customer
   base.  In 1998, no single customer accounted for as much as 3% of
   Bio-Rad's total sales.  A number of the Company's customers,
   particularly in Life Science, are substantially dependent for
   their funding on government grants and research contracts.  A
   portion of the Analytical Instruments segment is dependent upon
   large semiconductor manufacturers; the loss of these customers or
   a severe downturn in the semiconductor market would have a
   detrimental effect on the results of the segment.

   Most of the Company's international sales are generated by
   wholly-owned subsidiaries and their branch offices in Australia,
   Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, England, Finland, France,
   Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea,
   Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, People's Republic

   

   of China, Poland, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden and
   Switzerland.  Certain of these subsidiaries also have
   manufacturing facilities.  While Bio-Rad's international
   operations are subject to certain risks common to foreign
   operations in general, such as changes in governmental
   regulations, import restrictions and foreign exchange
   fluctuations, the Company's international operations are
   principally in developed nations, which the Company regards as
   presenting no significantly greater risks to its operations than
   are present in the United States.

   Competition

   Most markets served by Bio-Rad's product groups are competitive.
   Bio-Rad's competitors range in size from start-ups to large
   multi-nationals.  Reliable independent information on sales and
   market share of products produced by Bio-Rad's competitors is not
   generally available.  Bio-Rad believes, however, based on its own
   marketing information, that while some competitors are dominant
   with respect to certain individual products, no one company,
   including Bio-Rad, is dominant with respect to a material portion
   of any segment of Bio-Rad's business.

   Product Research and Development

   The Company conducts extensive product research and development
   activities in all areas of its business, employing  approximately
   330 people worldwide in these activities.  Research and
   development have played a major role in Bio-Rad's growth and are
   expected to continue to do so in the future.  New products and
   new applications for existing products are being developed
   continuously by Bio-Rad's researchers.  In its development and
   testing of new products and applications, Bio-Rad consults with
   scientific and medical professionals at universities, hospitals
   and medical schools, and in industry.  Bio-Rad spent
   approximately $41.4 million, $46.1 million and $39.6 million on
   R&D activities during the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and
   1996, respectively.

   Regulatory Matters

   Certain of the Company's products (primarily diagnostic products)
   are subject to regulation  in the United States by the Center for
   Devices and Radiological Health of the United States Food and
   Drug Administration (FDA) and in other jurisdictions by state and
   foreign government authorities.  FDA regulations require that
   some new products have pre-marketing approval by the FDA and
   require certain of Bio-Rad's products to be manufactured in
   accordance with "good manufacturing practices," to be extensively
   tested and to be properly labeled to disclose test results and
   performance claims and limitations.

   As a multinational manufacturer and distributor of sophisticated
   instrumentation equipment, Bio-Rad must meet a wide array of
   electromagnetic compatibility and safety compliance requirements
   to satisfy regulations in the United States, the European
   Community and other jurisdictions.  The Company is also subject

   

   to government regulation of the use and handling of radioactive
   materials and controlled substances.  The Company believes it is
   in compliance with these and other regulations.

   Certain of the Company's production processes involve the use of
   materials whose use is subject to federal, state and local
   environmental regulations. The Company regularly evaluates its
   processes and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable
   environmental standards and regulations.  Although, from time to
   time, modification of processes and procedures may be required
   which will require additional capital expenditures, the Company
   presently believes that any such expenditures will have no
   material adverse effect on the future results of operations or
   the financial position of the Company.

   Employees

   At December 31, 1998, Bio-Rad had approximately 2,675 full-time
   employees.  Fewer than 7% of Bio-Rad's employees are covered by a
   collective bargaining agreement which will expire on November 7,
   2002.   Bio-Rad considers its employee relations in general to be
   good.

   ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

   Bio-Rad owns its Corporate headquarters located in Hercules,
   California.  The principal manufacturing and research locations
   for each segment are as follows:

     Life Science           Richmond, California        Owned/Leased
                            Hercules, California        Owned
                            Hemel Hempstead, England    Leased
                            Milan, Italy                Leased

     Clinical Diagnostics   Hercules, California        Owned/Leased
                            Irvine, California          Leased
                            Munich, Germany             Leased
                            Nazareth-Eke, Belgium       Leased

     Analytical Instruments Cambridge, Massachusetts    Owned
                            York, England               Owned
                            Philadelphia, Pennsylvania  Owned

   Most manufacturing and research facilities also house
   administration, sales and distribution activities for the
   segment.

   In addition, the Company leases office and warehouse facilities
   in California, Colorado, Florida, New Mexico, Australia, Austria,
   Belgium, Canada, Denmark, England, Finland, France, Germany, Hong
   Kong, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, the
   Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, People's Republic of China,
   Poland, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.  These
   facilities are used principally for sales, service, distribution
   and administration for all three segments.

   

   The Company has leased space in California, New York, Canada and
   England that is not currently being utilized.  For the most part,
   reserves for future lease payments were recorded at the time the
   Company stopped using these facilities.  The Company has
   subleased or is attempting to sublease these properties.

   Life Science segment's northern California distribution and
   instrument manufacturing facility lease expires in November 2000.
   The lease is not automatically renewable at that time.  It is
   anticipated that the distribution and instrument manufacturing
   facility will be moved to a new location in northern California
   prior to November 2000.  All other facilities are believed to be
   adequate to support the Company's current and anticipated
   production requirements.  Historically, adequate space to expand
   sales and distribution channels has been available and is leased
   as needed.

   ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   Note 13, "Legal Proceedings," appearing on page 19 of Exhibit
   13.1 is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   There were no matters submitted to a vote of the Company's
   security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
   covered by this report.

                              P A R T  II

   ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   Note 16, "Information Concerning Common Stock," appearing on page
   23 of Exhibit 13.1 is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

   The table headed "Summary of Operations" appearing on page 1 of
   Exhibit 13.1 is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
            CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

   The section headed "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
   Results of Operations and Financial Condition" appearing on pages
   25 through 32 of Exhibit 13.1 is incorporated herein by
   reference.









   

   ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
             RISK

   The section headed "Financial Risk Management" appearing on pages
   31 and 32 of Exhibit 13.1 is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

   The Report of Independent Public Accountants and the Consolidated
   Financial Statements and Notes thereto appearing on pages 2
   through 24 of Exhibit 13.1 are incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
           ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
   None.

                              P A R T  III

   ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   The sections labeled "Election of Directors" and "Section 16(a)
   Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" of the definitive
   Proxy Statement mailed to stockholders in connection with the
   1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the 1999 Proxy Statement)
   are incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   The sections labeled "Executive Compensation and Other
   Information," "Compensation of Directors," "Compensation
   Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," "Report of the
   Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors" and "Stock
   Performance Graph" of the 1999 Proxy Statement are incorporated
   herein by reference.

   ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
             MANAGEMENT

   The section labeled "Principal and Management Stockholders" of
   the 1999 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.

   ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   The section labeled "Compensation of Directors" of the 1999 Proxy
   Statement is incorporated herein by reference.










   

                              P A R T  IV

   ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
             FORM 8-K

   (a) 1. Index to Financial Statements

          The following Consolidated Financial Statements are
          included in the 1998 Annual Report and are incorporated
          herein by reference pursuant to Item 8:
                                                          Page in
                                                        Exhibit 13.1
          Consolidated Balance Sheets
          at December 31, 1998 and 1997                     2-3

          Consolidated Statements of Income
          for each of the three years in the
          period ended December 31, 1998                    4

          Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
          for each of the three years in the period
          ended December 31, 1998                           5

          Consolidated Statements of Changes in
          Stockholders' Equity for each of the three
          years in the period ended December 31, 1998       6

          Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        7-23

          Report of Independent Public Accountants          24

       2. Index to Financial Statement Schedule
                                                         Page in
                                                        Form 10-K

          Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     8

          Report of Independent Public Accountants
          on Schedule II                                    9

          All other  financial  statement schedules  are omitted  because
          they are not  required or because  the required information  is
          included in the Consolidated  Financial Statements or the Notes
          thereto.

       3. Index to Exhibits

          The exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits on
          pages 11 and 12 of this report are filed or incorporated by
          reference as part of this report.

   (b)  Reports on Form 8-K

   There are no reports on Form 8-K filed by the Company during the last
   quarter of the period covered by this report.

   

                            BIO-RAD LABORATORIES, INC.

                 SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

                   Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                                  (In thousands)


   





   

