Items 1 and 2.  BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES







CORPORATE STRUCTURE



Phillips 66, headquartered in Houston, Texas, was incorporated in Delaware on November 10, 2011, in connection with, and in anticipation of, a restructuring of ConocoPhillips.  On April 4, 2012, the ConocoPhillips Board of Directors approved the separation of its downstream businesses into an independent, publicly traded company named Phillips 66.  In accordance with the Separation and Distribution Agreement between ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66, the two companies were separated by ConocoPhillips distributing to its stockholders all 625,272,302 shares of common stock of Phillips 66 after the market closed on April 30, 2012 (the Separation).  Each ConocoPhillips stockholder received one share of Phillips 66 stock for every two shares of ConocoPhillips stock held at the close of business on the record date of April 16, 2012.  On May 1, 2012, Phillips 66 stock began trading “regular-way” on the New York Stock Exchange under the “PSX” stock symbol.



Effective January 1, 2013, we changed the organizational structure of the internal financial information reviewed by our chief executive officer, and determined this resulted in a change in the composition of our operating segments.  The primary effects of this reporting reorganization were:



•We disaggregated the former Refining and Marketing (R&M) segment into two separate operating segments titled "Refining" and "Marketing and Specialties."



•We moved our Transportation and power businesses from the former R&M segment to the Midstream and Marketing and Specialties (M&S) segments, respectively.



This realignment resulted in the following operating segments:



1)Midstream—Gathers, processes, transports and markets natural gas; and transports, fractionates and markets natural gas liquids (NGL) in the United States.  In addition, this segment transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations, and delivers refined and specialty products to market.  The Midstream segment includes, among other businesses, our50 percentequity investment in DCP Midstream, LLC (DCP Midstream).



2)Chemicals—Manufactures and markets petrochemicals and plastics on a worldwide basis.  The Chemicals segment consists of our50 percentequity investment in Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem).



3)Refining—Buys, sells and refines crude oil and other feedstocks at15refineries, mainly in the United States, Europe and Asia.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



4)Marketing and Specialties—Purchases for resale and markets refined products, mainly in the United States and Europe.  In addition, this segment includes the manufacturing and marketing of specialty products (such as lubricants), as well as power generation operations.



AtDecember 31, 2013, Phillips 66 had approximately 13,500 employees.







SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION



For operating segment and geographic information, seeNote 25—Segment Disclosures and Related Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.







MIDSTREAM



The Midstream segment consists of two primary business lines:



•Transportation- transports crude oil and other feedstocks to our refineries and other locations and delivers refined and specialty products to market.  The operations of our master limited partnership, Phillips 66 Partners LP, are included in this business line.



•Natural gas and natural gas liquids- gathers, processes, transports and markets natural gas, and transports, fractionates and markets natural gas liquids.  Our investment in DCP Midstream is included in this business line.



Transportation



We own or lease various assets to provide environmentally safe, strategic and timely delivery of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and NGL.  These assets include pipeline systems; petroleum product, crude oil and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) terminals; a petroleum coke handling facility; marine vessels; railcars and trucks.



Pipelines and Terminals

AtDecember 31, 2013, our Transportation business managed over 18,000 miles of crude oil, natural gas, NGL and petroleum products pipeline systems in the United States, including those partially owned or operated by affiliates.  We owned or operated 39 finished product terminals, 37 storage locations, 5 LPG terminals, 14 crude oil terminals and 1 petroleum coke exporting facility.










Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



The following table depicts our ownership interest in major pipeline systems as ofDecember 31, 2013:





NameOrigination/TerminusInterestSizeMilesCapacityMBD

Crude and Feedstocks

GlacierCut Bank, MT/Billings, MT79%8”-12”865100

Line 80Gaines, TX/Borger, TX1008”, 12”23733

Line OCushing, OK/Borger, TX10010”27637

WA LineOdessa, TX/Borger, TX10012”, 14”289118

CushingCushing, OK/Ponca City, OK10018”62130

North Texas CrudeWichita Falls, TX1002”-16”33928

Oklahoma MainlineWichita Falls, TX/Ponca City, OK10012”217100

Clifton Ridge †Clifton Ridge, LA/Westlake, LA7420”10270

Louisiana Crude GatheringRayne, LA/Westlake, LA1004”-8”8525

Sweeny CrudeSweeny, TX/Freeport, TX10012”, 24”, 30”31295

Sweeny Crude ButadieneClemens, TX/Webster, TX**4”, 6”687

Coast and Valley SystemCentral CA/Bay Area, CA1008”-16”602307



Petroleum Product

HarborWoodbury, NJ/Linden, NJ3316”80104

Pioneer †Sinclair, WY/Salt Lake City, UT508”, 12”56263

SeminoeBillings, MT/Sinclair, WY1006”-10”34233

YellowstoneBillings, MT/Moses Lake, WA466”-10”71066

Borger to AmarilloBorger, TX/Amarillo, TX1008”, 10”9376

ATA LineAmarillo, TX/Albuquerque, NM506”, 10”29320

Borger-DenverMcKee, TX/Denver, CO706”-12”40538

Gold LineBorger, TX/St. Louis, IL1008”-16”681120

SAALAmarillo, TX/Amarillo & Lubbock, TX336”12118

Cherokee 8”Ponca City, OK/Oklahoma City, OK1008”9046

HeartlandMcPherson, KS/Des Moines, IA508”, 6”4930

Paola ProductsPaola, KS/Kansas City, KS1008”, 10”10696

StandishMarland Junction, OK/Wichita, KS10018”9280

Wichita/Ark City 1&2Ponca City, OK/Wichita, KS1008”, 10”10555

Wood RiverMedford, OK/Mt. Vernon, MO10010”, 12”28745

ExplorerTexas Gulf Coast/Chicago, IL1424”, 28”1,835500

Sweeny to Pasadena †Sweeny, TX/Pasadena, TX7412”, 18”120264

LA BasinLos Angeles, CA1006” - 20”89357

RichmondRodeo, CA/Richmond, CA1006”1426



NGL

Powder RiverSage Creek, WY/Borger, TX1006”-8”69519

Skelly-BelvieuSkellytown, TX/Mont Belvieu, TX508”57129

TX Panhandle Y1/Y2Sherhan, TX/Borger, TX1003”-10”29973

ChisholmKingfisher, OK/Conway, KS504”-10”20242

Line EZRankin, TX/Sweeny, TX**10”434101

MextexArtesia, NM/Benedum, TX**4”-12”30551

Sweeny EPMont Belvieu, TX/Sweeny, TX**8”8540

Sand Hills*Permian Basin/Mont Belvieu, TX3320”720200

Southern Hills*U.S. Midcontinent/Mont Belvieu, TX3320”800175



LPG

Blue LineBorger, TX/St. Louis, IL1008"-12"66729

Conway to WichitaConway, KS/Wichita, KS10012”5538

MedfordPonca City, OK/Medford, OK1004”-6”4260

Sweeny Propane/ButaneClemens, TX/Pasadena, TX**8"6531



Natural Gas

Rockies ExpressMeeker, CO/Clarington, OH2536”-42”1,6791.8 BCFD

*Phillips 66 has a direct one-third ownership in the pipeline entities; operated by DCP Midstream; reflects expected capacity; reported within NGL operations.

**100 percent interest held by CPChem.  Operated by Phillips 66.

†Ownership interest excludes noncontrolling interests.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Rockies Express Pipeline LLC (REX)

We have a 25 percent interest in REX.  The REX natural gas pipeline runs 1,679 miles from Meeker, Colorado, to Clarington, Ohio, and has a natural gas transmission capacity of 1.8 billion cubic feet per day (BCFD), with most of its system having a pipeline diameter of 42 inches.  Numerous compression facilities support the pipeline system.  The REX pipeline is designed to enable natural gas producers in the Rocky Mountain region to deliver natural gas supplies to the Midwest and eastern regions of the United States.



Initial Public Offering of Phillips 66 Partners LP

In 2013, we formed Phillips 66 Partners, a master limited partnership, to own, operate, develop and acquire primarily fee-based crude oil, refined petroleum product and NGL pipelines and terminals, as well as other transportation and midstream assets.  On July 26, 2013, Phillips 66 Partners completed its initial public offering of 18,888,750 common units at a price of $23.00 per unit, which included a 2,463,750 common unit over-allotment option that was fully exercised by the underwriters.  We own a 71.7 percent limited partner interest and a 2.0 percent general partner interest in Phillips 66 Partners, while the public owns a 26.3 percent limited partner interest.

Headquartered in Houston, Texas, Phillips 66 Partners' assets consist of crude oil and refined petroleum product pipeline, terminal, and storage systems in the Central and Gulf Coast regions of the United States, each of which is integral to a Phillips 66-operated refinery.

Marine Vessels

AtDecember 31, 2013, we had 14 double-hulled international-flagged crude oil and product tankers under term charter, with capacities ranging in size from 300,000 to 1,100,000 barrels.  Additionally, we had under term charter two Jones Act compliant tankers and 53 barges.  These vessels are used primarily to transport feedstocks or provide product transportation for certain of our refineries, including delivery of domestic crude oil to our Gulf Coast and East Coast refineries.



Truck and Rail

Truck and rail operations support our U.S. refinery and specialty operations.  Rail movements are provided via a diverse fleet of more than 10,000 owned and leased railcars.  In October 2012, we entered into an operating lease covering 2,000 newly constructed railcars.  The railcars were delivered in batches throughout 2013.  This is an expansion of our existing rail business and allows for increased delivery of advantaged crude to our refineries on the East and West Coasts.  Truck movements are provided through approximately 150 third-party truck companies, as well as through Sentinel Transportation LLC, in which we hold an equity interest.





DCP Midstream



Our Midstream segment includes our 50 percent equity investment in DCP Midstream, which is headquartered in Denver, Colorado.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, DCP Midstream owned or operated 64 natural gas processing facilities, with a net processing capacity of approximately 7.5 BCFD.  DCP Midstream's owned or operated natural gas pipeline systems included gathering services for these facilities, as well as natural gas transmission, and totaled approximately 67,000 miles of pipeline.  DCP Midstream also owned or operated 12 NGL fractionation plants, along with natural gas and NGL storage facilities, a propane wholesale marketing business and NGL pipeline assets.



In2013, DCP Midstream gathered, processed and/or transported an average of7.1 trillionBritish thermal units (TBTU) per day of natural gas, and produced approximately426,000barrels per day of NGL, compared with7.1TBTU per day and402,000barrels per day in2012.

The residual natural gas, primarily methane, which results from processing raw natural gas, is sold by DCP Midstream at market-based prices to marketers and end users, including large industrial companies, natural gas distribution companies and electric utilities.  DCP Midstream purchases or takes custody of substantially all of its raw natural gas from producers, principally under the following types of contractual arrangements.



•Percentage-of-proceeds/index arrangements.In general, DCP Midstream purchases natural gas from producers at the wellhead or other receipt points, gathers the wellhead natural gas through its gathering system, treats and processes it, and then sells the residue natural gas and NGL based on index prices from published market indices.  DCP Midstream remits to the producers either an agreed-upon percentage of the actual proceeds received from the






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



sale of the residue natural gas and NGL, or an agreed-upon percentage of the proceeds based on index-related prices for natural gas and NGL, regardless of the actual amount of sales proceeds which DCP Midstream receives.  Certain of these arrangements may also result in the producer retaining title to all or a portion of the residue natural gas and/or the NGL in lieu of DCP Midstream returning sales proceeds to the producer.  Additionally, these arrangements may include fee-based components.  DCP Midstream's revenues from percentage-of-proceeds/index arrangements relate directly to the price of natural gas, NGL and condensate.  DCP Midstream's revenues under percent-of-liquids arrangements relate directly to the price of NGL and condensate.  More than 70 percent of the natural gas volumes gathered and processed are under percentage-of-proceeds contracts.



•Fee-based arrangements.DCP Midstream receives a fee or fees for one or more of the following services: gathering, processing, compressing, treating, storing or transporting natural gas and fractionating, storing and transporting NGL.  Fee-based arrangements include natural gas arrangements pursuant to which DCP Midstream obtains natural gas at the wellhead or other receipt points at an index-related price at the delivery point less a specified amount, generally the same as the fees it would otherwise charge for gathering the natural gas from the wellhead location to the delivery point.  The revenue DCP Midstream earns from these arrangements is directly related to the volume of natural gas or NGL that flows through its systems and is not directly dependent on commodity prices.  However, to the extent that a sustained decline in commodity prices results in a decline in volumes, DCP Midstream's revenues from these arrangements could be reduced.



•Keep-whole and wellhead purchase arrangements.DCP Midstream gathers raw natural gas from producers for processing, markets the NGL and returns to the producer residue natural gas with a British thermal unit (BTU) content equivalent to the BTU content of the natural gas gathered.  This arrangement keeps the producer whole in regard to the thermal value of the natural gas received.  Under the terms of a wellhead purchase contract, DCP Midstream purchases natural gas from the producer at the wellhead or defined receipt point for processing and markets the resulting NGL and residue gas at market prices.  DCP Midstream is exposed to the difference between the value of the NGL extracted from processing and the value of the BTU-equivalent of the residue natural gas, or "frac spread."  Under these type of contracts, DCP Midstream benefits in periods when NGL prices are higher relative to natural gas prices.

DCP Midstream markets a portion of its NGL to us and CPChem under an existing 15-year supply agreement, which ends in December 2014.  The contract provides for a ratable wind-down period which expires in January 2019, if it is not renegotiated or renewed.  This purchase commitment is on an “if-produced, will-purchase” basis and is expected to have a relatively stable purchase pattern over the remaining term of the contract.  Under the agreement, NGL is purchased at various published market-index prices, less transportation and fractionation fees.

During the first quarter of 2013, DCP Midstream Partners, LP (DCP Partners), DCP Midstream's sponsored master limited partnership, announced that construction of its 200 million cubic-feet-per-day Eagle Plant was complete and the plant was in-service.  On February 3, 2014, DCP Midstream and DCP Partners announced that the 200 million cubic-feet-per-day Goliad Plant was in start-up.  The DCP Midstream enterprise's total natural gas processing capacity in the Eagle Ford area increased to 1.2 billion cubic feet per day, upon completion of the Goliad Plant.



In June 2013, we, along with DCP Midstream and Spectra Energy, announced that the Sand Hills and Southern Hills NGL pipelines were in-service.  The Sand Hills and Southern Hills pipelines began taking linefill in the fourth quarter of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, respectively.  The Sand Hills pipeline provides takeaway service from plants in the Permian and Eagle Ford basins to fractionation facilities along the Texas Gulf Coast and the Mont Belvieu, Texas, market hub.  The Sand Hills pipeline consists of approximately 720 miles of pipeline, and is expected to ramp up to a capacity of more than 200,000 barrels per day after completion of initial pump stations in 2014, with further capacity increases to 350,000 barrels per day possible with the installation of planned pump stations.  The Southern Hills pipeline provides takeaway service from DCP Midstream and third-party plants in the Midcontinent to fractionation facilities along the Texas Gulf Coast and the Mont Belvieu market hub.  The Southern Hills pipeline consists of approximately 800 miles of pipeline, and is expected to ramp up to a capacity of 175,000 barrels per day after completion of planned pump stations in 2014.  Phillips 66, Spectra Energy, and DCP Midstream each have a one-third direct interest in each of the DCP Southern Hills and DCP Sand Hills pipeline entities.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Also in 2013, DCP Midstream began operations at its Rawhide Plant, a 75 million cubic-feet-per-day natural gas processing plant in Glasscock County, Texas.  DCP Partners’ 110 million cubic-feet-per-day O’Connor Plant near Kersey, Colorado, began operations in late 2013.  One of DCP Partners’ joint venture assets, the Texas Express Pipeline, originates near Skellytown in Carson County, Texas, and extends approximately 580 miles to Enterprise's NGL fractionation and storage complex at Mont Belvieu, Texas.  The Texas Express Pipeline was completed and began operations in the fourth quarter of 2013.



Additionally in early 2014, an expansion of the O’Connor Plant is expected to increase the plant’s capacity to 160 million cubic feet per day.  Another of DCP Partners’ joint venture projects, the Front Range Pipeline, originates in the Denver-Julesburg Basin and extends approximately 435 miles to Skellytown, Texas, with connections to the Mid-America pipeline and to the Texas Express Pipeline.  The Front Range Pipeline connects to the O'Connor Plant as well as third party and DCP Midstream plants in the Denver-Julesburg Basin.  The Front Range Pipeline was placed into service in the first quarter of 2014.





NGL Operations and Other



Our NGL and Other business includes the following:



•A 22.5 percent equity interest in Gulf Coast Fractionators, which owns an NGL fractionation plant in Mont Belvieu, Texas.  We operate the facility, and our net share of capacity is 32,625 barrels per day.



•A 12.5 percent equity interest in a fractionation plant in Mont Belvieu, Texas.  Our net share of capacity is 26,000 barrels per day.



•A 40 percent interest in a fractionation plant in Conway, Kansas.  Our net share of capacity is 43,200 barrels per day.



•A one-third direct interest in both the DCP Sand Hills and DCP Southern Hills pipeline entities, connecting Eagle Ford, Permian and Midcontinent production to the Mont Belvieu, Texas, market.



During 2013, we announced the development of a 100,000 barrel-per-day NGL fractionator (Sweeny Fractionator One) to be located in Old Ocean, Texas, close to our Sweeny Refinery.  Startup is expected by the second half of 2015.  In addition, we announced plans to develop a LPG export terminal project in Freeport, Texas.  The proposed LPG export terminal would provide 4.4 million barrels per month of LPG export capacity, be located at the site of our existing marine terminal in Freeport and would utilize existing Phillips 66 midstream, transportation and storage infrastructure to supply petrochemical, heating and transportation markets globally.  Startup is planned for the second half of 2016.  The LPG export terminal would be supplied from the Mont Belvieu area and from Phillips 66's Sweeny complex, including Sweeny Fractionator One.  Final approval for both projects was received in the first quarter of 2014.












Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



CHEMICALS



The Chemicals segment consists of our 50 percent equity investment in CPChem, which is headquartered in The Woodlands, Texas.  At the end of2013, CPChem owned or had joint-venture interests in 35 manufacturing facilities and 2 research and development centers located around the world.



CPChem’s business is structured around two primary operating segments: Olefins and Polyolefins (O&P) and Specialties, Aromatics and Styrenics (SA&S).  The O&P segment produces and markets ethylene, propylene, and other olefin products, which are primarily consumed within CPChem for the production of polyethylene, normal alpha olefins, polypropylene and polyethylene pipe.  The SA&S segment manufactures and markets aromatics products, such as benzene, styrene, paraxylene and cyclohexane, as well as polystyrene and styrene-butadiene copolymers.  SA&S also manufactures and/or markets a variety of specialty chemical products including organosulfur chemicals, solvents, catalysts, drilling chemicals, mining chemicals and high-performance engineering plastics and compounds.



The manufacturing of petrochemicals and plastics involves the conversion of hydrocarbon-based raw material feedstock into higher-value products, often through a thermal process referred to in the industry as “cracking.”  For example, ethylene can be produced from cracking the feedstocks ethane, propane, butane, natural gasoline or certain refinery liquids, such as naphtha and gas oil.  The produced ethylene has a number of uses, primarily as a raw material for the production of plastics, such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride.  Plastic resins, such as polyethylene, are manufactured in a thermal/catalyst process, and the produced output is used as a further raw material for various applications, such as packaging and plastic pipe.



CPChem, including through its subsidiaries and equity affiliates, has manufacturing facilities located in Belgium, China, Colombia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea and the United States.



The following table reflects CPChem’s petrochemicals and plastics product capacities atDecember 31, 2013:





Millions of Pounds per YearU.S.WorldwideO&PEthylene7,83010,305Propylene2,6753,180High-density polyethylene4,2056,500Low-density polyethylene620620Linear low-density polyethylene490490Polypropylene—310Normal alpha olefins1,5652,080Polyalphaolefins105235Polyethylene pipe590590Total O&P18,08024,310SA&SBenzene1,6002,530Cyclohexane1,0601,455Paraxylene1,0001,000Styrene1,0501,875Polystyrene8351,070K-Resin®SBC100170Specialty chemicals555655Ryton®PPS6181Total SA&S6,2618,836

Capacities include CPChem’s share in equity affiliates and excludes CPChem's NGL fractionation capacity.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



In the fourth quarter of 2013, CPChem's board of directors approved the construction of a world-scale ethane cracker and polyethylene facilities in the U.S. Gulf Coast region.  The project will leverage the development of the significant shale gas resources in the United States.  CPChem's Cedar Bayou facility, in Baytown, Texas, will be the location of the 3.3 billion-pound-per-year ethylene unit.  The polyethylene facility will have two polyethylene reactors, each with an annual capacity of 1.1 billion pounds, and will be located near CPChem's Sweeny facility in Old Ocean, Texas.  The project is expected to be completed in 2017.



In 2012, CPChem announced plans to build the world's largest on-purpose 1-hexene plant, capable of producing up to 550 million pounds per year at its Cedar Bayou facility in Baytown, Texas.  1-hexene, a normal alpha olefin, is a critical component used in the manufacturing of polyethylene, a plastic resin commonly converted into film, plastic pipe, milk jugs, detergent bottles and food and beverage containers.  Construction has begun, and the project is anticipated to startup during the second quarter of 2014.  Upon completion, the new plant will be the third such plant to utilize CPChem's proprietary selective 1-hexene technology, which produces co-monomer-grade 1-hexene from ethylene with exceptional product purity.



In the second quarter of 2013, CPChem completed the NGL Fractionator Expansion project at its Sweeny facility.  The NGL fractionation expansion increased its capacity by approximately 22,000 barrels per day, or a 19 percent increase over its prior capacity.



Saudi Polymers Company (SPCo), a 35-percent-owned joint venture company of CPChem, owns an integrated petrochemicals complex adjacent to S-Chem (two 50/50 SA&S joint ventures) at Jubail Industrial City, Saudi Arabia.  SPCo produces ethylene, propylene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene and 1-hexene.



In association with the SPCo project, CPChem committed to build a nylon 6,6 manufacturing plant and a number of polymer conversion projects at Jubail Industrial City, Saudi Arabia.  The projects are being undertaken through CPChem's 50-percent-owned joint venture company, Petrochemical Conversion Company Ltd.  The projects are slated to begin operations in stages during 2014.



Our agreement with Chevron U.S.A. Inc. (Chevron), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Chevron Corporation, regarding CPChem permits Chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in CPChem for fair market value if, at any time after the Separation, we experience a change in control or if both Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) and Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks.












Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



REFINING



Our Refining segment buys, sells, and refines crude oil and other feedstocks into petroleum products (such as gasolines, distillates and aviation fuels) at15refineries, mainly in the United States, Europe and Asia.



The table below depicts information for each of our U.S. and international refineries at December 31,2013:



Thousands of Barrels DailyRegion/RefineryLocationInterestNet Crude ThroughputCapacityNet Clean ProductCapacity**CleanProductYieldCapabilityAtDecember 31, 2013Effective January 1, 2014GasolinesDistillatesAtlantic Basin/EuropeBaywayLinden, NJ100.00%23823814511590%HumberN. Lincolnshire, United Kingdom100.002212218511581WhitegateCork, Ireland100.007171153065MiRO*Karlsruhe, Germany18.755858252585588588Gulf CoastAllianceBelle Chasse, LA100.0024724712512087Lake CharlesWestlake, LA100.002392399011570SweenyOld Ocean, TX100.0024724712512087733733Central CorridorWood RiverRoxana, IL50.00156157755583BorgerBorger, TX50.007373502589Ponca CityPonca City, OK100.001901961058092BillingsBillings, MT100.005959352589478485Western/PacificFerndaleFerndale, WA100.00101101553075Los AngelesCarson/ Wilmington, CA100.00139139806589San FranciscoArroyo Grande/San Francisco, CA100.00120120556084MelakaMelaka, Malaysia47.0080802050804404402,2392,246

*Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein GmbH.

**Clean product capacities are maximum rates for each clean product category, independent of each other.  They are not additive when calculating the clean product yield capability for each refinery.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Primary crude oil characteristics and sources of crude oil for our refineries are as follows:



CharacteristicsSourcesSweetMediumSourHeavySourHighTAN*UnitedStatesCanadaSouthAmericaEurope &Central AsiaMiddle East& AfricaBaywayllllHumberlllllWhitegatelllMiROllllAlliancelllLake CharleslllllllSweenylllllWood RiverlllllBorgerllllPonca CitylllllBillingslllFerndalellllLos AngeleslllllllSan FranciscolllllllMelakallll

*High TAN (Total Acid Number): acid content greater than or equal to 1.0 milligram of potassium hydroxide (KOH) per gram.





Atlantic Basin/Europe Region



Bayway Refinery

The Bayway Refinery is located on the New York Harbor in Linden, New Jersey.  Bayway refining units include a fluid catalytic cracking unit, two hydrodesulfurization units, a naphtha reformer, an alkylation unit and other processing equipment.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as well as petrochemical feedstocks, residual fuel oil and home heating oil.  Refined products are distributed to East Coast customers by pipeline, barge, railcar and truck.  The complex also includes a 775-million-pound-per-year polypropylene plant.



Humber Refinery

The Humber Refinery is located on the east coast of England in North Lincolnshire, United Kingdom.  It produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuels.  Humber’s facilities encompass fluid catalytic cracking, thermal cracking and coking.  The refinery has two coking units with associated calcining plants, which upgrade the heaviest part of the crude barrel and imported feedstocks into light oil products and high-value graphite and anode petroleum cokes.  Humber is the only coking refinery in the United Kingdom, one of the world’s largest producers of specialty graphite cokes and one of Europe’s largest anode coke producers.  Approximately 60 percent of the light oils produced in the refinery are marketed in the United Kingdom, while the other products are exported to the rest of Europe, West Africa and the United States.



Whitegate Refinery

The Whitegate Refinery is located in Cork, Ireland, and is Ireland’s only refinery.  The refinery primarily produces transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and fuel oil, which are distributed to the inland market, as well as being exported to international markets.  We also operate a crude oil and products storage complex consisting of 7.5 million barrels of storage capacity and an offshore mooring buoy, located in Bantry Bay, about 80 miles southwest of the refinery in southern Cork County.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



MiRO Refinery

The Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein GmbH (MiRO) Refinery, located on the Rhine River in Karlsruhe in southwest Germany, is a joint venture in which we own an 18.75 percent interest.  Facilities include three crude unit trains, fluid catalytic cracking, petroleum coking and calcining, hydrodesulfurization units, naphtha reformers, isomerization and aromatics recovery units, ethyl tert-butyl ether and alkylation units.  MiRO produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline and diesel fuels.  Other products include petrochemical feedstocks, home heating oil, bitumen, and anode- and fuel-grade petroleum coke.  Refined products are delivered to customers in southwest Germany, northern Switzerland and western Austria by truck, railcar and barge.



Gulf Coast Region



Alliance Refinery

The Alliance Refinery is located on the Mississippi River in Belle Chasse, Louisiana.  The single-train facility includes fluid catalytic cracking units, alkylation, delayed coking, hydrodesulfurization units, a naphtha reformer and aromatics unit.  Alliance produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuels.  Other products include petrochemical feedstocks, home heating oil and anode-grade petroleum coke.  The majority of the refined products are distributed to customers in the southeastern and eastern United States through major common carrier pipeline systems and by barge.  Refined products are also sold into export markets through the refinery's marine terminal.



Lake Charles Refinery

The Lake Charles Refinery is located in Westlake, Louisiana.  Its facilities include fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, delayed coking and hydrodesulfurization units.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as low-sulfur gasoline, off-road diesel, along with home heating oil.  The majority of its refined products are distributed by truck, railcar, barge or major common carrier pipelines to customers in the southeastern and eastern United States.  Refined products can also be sold into export markets through the refinery’s marine terminal.  Refinery facilities also include a specialty coker and calciner, which produce graphite petroleum coke for the steel industry.



Excel Paralubes

We own a 50 percent interest in Excel Paralubes, a joint venture which owns a hydrocracked lubricant base oil manufacturing plant located adjacent to the Lake Charles Refinery.  The facility produces approximately 20,000 barrels per day of high-quality, clear hydrocracked base oils.



Sweeny Refinery

The Sweeny Refinery is located in Old Ocean, Texas, approximately 65 miles southwest of Houston.  Refinery facilities include fluid catalytic cracking, delayed coking, alkylation, a naphtha reformer and hydrodesulfurization units.  The refinery receives crude oil primarily via tankers, through wholly and jointly owned terminals on the Gulf Coast, including a deepwater terminal at Freeport, Texas.  It produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuels.  Other products include petrochemical feedstocks, home heating oil and fuel-grade petroleum coke.  We operate nearby terminals and storage facilities, along with pipelines that connect these facilities to the refinery.  Refined products are distributed throughout the Midwest and southeastern United States by pipeline, barge and railcar.  Recent improvements have enhanced the refinery's ability to export refined products.



MSLP

Merey Sweeny, L.P. (MSLP) owns a delayed coker and related facilities at the Sweeny Refinery.  MSLP processes long residue, which is produced from heavy sour crude oil, for a processing fee.  Fuel-grade petroleum coke is produced as a by-product and becomes the property of MSLP.  Prior to August 28, 2009, MSLP was owned 50/50 by ConocoPhillips and Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA).  Under the agreements that govern the relationships between the partners, certain defaults by PDVSA with respect to supply of crude oil to the Sweeny Refinery triggered the right to acquire PDVSA’s 50 percent ownership interest in MSLP, which was exercised on August 28, 2009.  PDVSA initiated arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerce challenging the exercise of the call right and claiming it was invalid.  The arbitral tribunal held hearings on the merits of the dispute in December 2012, and post-hearing briefs were exchanged in March 2013.  A decision from the arbitral tribunal is expected in the first quarter of 2014.  Following the Separation, Phillips 66 generally indemnifies ConocoPhillips for liabilities, if any, arising out of the exercise of the call right or otherwise with respect to the joint venture or the refinery.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Central Corridor Region



WRB Refining LP (WRB)

We are the operator and managing partner of WRB, which consists of the Wood River and Borger refineries.



Prior to the Separation, ConocoPhillips had two 50/50 North American business ventures with Cenovus Energy Inc. (Cenovus): a Canadian upstream general partnership, FCCL Partnership (FCCL), and a downstream U.S. limited partnership, WRB.  In accordance with the Separation and Distribution Agreement, ConocoPhillips retained its 50 percent interest in FCCL and a 0.4 percent interest in WRB, while contributing its remaining 49.6 percent interest in WRB to us in the Separation.  On July 1, 2013, we increased our ownership interest in WRB to 50 percent by purchasing ConocoPhillips' remaining 0.4 percent interest.



WRB’s gross processing capability of heavy Canadian or similar crudes ranges between 235,000 and 255,000 barrels per day as a result of the coker and refining expansion (CORE) project at the Wood River Refinery.



•Wood River Refinery

The Wood River Refinery is located in Roxana, Illinois, about 15 miles northeast of St. Louis, Missouri, at the convergence of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers.  Operations include three distilling units, two fluid catalytic cracking units, alkylation, hydrocracking, two delayed coking units, naphtha reforming, hydrotreating and sulfur recovery.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuels.  Other products include petrochemical feedstocks, asphalt and coke.  Finished product leaves Wood River by pipeline, rail, barge and truck.  In the first full year of operation following the CORE Project, Wood River's clean product yield increased by 5 percent, heavy crude oil gross capacity doubled and overall production rates increased.



•Borger Refinery

The Borger Refinery is located in Borger, Texas, in the Texas Panhandle, approximately 50 miles north of Amarillo.  The refinery facilities encompass coking, fluid catalytic cracking, alkylation, hydrodesulfurization and naphtha reforming, and a 45,000-barrel-per-day NGL fractionation facility.  It produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as well as coke, NGL and solvents.  Refined products are transported via pipelines from the refinery to West Texas, New Mexico, Colorado and the Midcontinent region.



Ponca City Refinery

The Ponca City Refinery is located in Ponca City, Oklahoma.  Its facilities include fluid catalytic cracking, alkylation, delayed coking and hydrodesulfurization units.  It produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel, as well as LPG and anode-grade petroleum coke.  Finished petroleum products are primarily shipped by company-owned and common-carrier pipelines to markets throughout the Midcontinent region.



Billings Refinery

The Billings Refinery is located in Billings, Montana.  Its facilities include fluid catalytic cracking and hydrodesulfurization units, in addition to a delayed coker, which converts heavy, high-sulfur residue into higher-value light oils.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and aviation fuels, as well as fuel-grade petroleum coke.  Finished petroleum products from the refinery are delivered by pipeline, railcar and truck.  The pipelines transport most of the refined products to markets in Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, Utah, Colorado and Washington State.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Western/Pacific Region



Ferndale Refinery

The Ferndale Refinery is located on Puget Sound in Ferndale, Washington, approximately 20 miles south of the U.S.-Canada border.  Facilities include a fluid catalytic cracker, an alkylation unit and a diesel hydrotreaterunit.  The refinery produces transportation fuels such as gasoline and diesel fuels.  Other products include residual fuel oil, which supplies the northwest marine transportation market.  Most refined products are distributed by pipeline and barge to major markets in the northwest United States.  Recent improvements have enhanced the refinery's ability to export refined products.



Los Angeles Refinery

The Los Angeles Refinery consists of two linked facilities located about five miles apart in Carson and Wilmington, California, approximately 15 miles southeast of Los Angeles International Airport.  Carson serves as the front end of the refinery by processing crude oil, and Wilmington serves as the back end by upgrading the intermediate products to finished products.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuels.  Other products include fuel-grade petroleum coke.  The facilities include fluid catalytic cracking, alkylation, hydrocracking, coking, and naphtha reforming units.  The refinery produces California Air Resources Board (CARB)-grade gasoline.  Refined products are distributed to customers in California, Nevada and Arizona by pipeline and truck.  Recent improvements have enhanced the refinery's ability to export refined products.



San Francisco Refinery

The San Francisco Refinery consists of two facilities linked by a 200-mile pipeline.  The Santa Maria facility is located in Arroyo Grande, California, about 200 miles south of San Francisco, California, while the Rodeo facility is in the San Francisco Bay Area.  Semi-refined liquid products from the Santa Maria facility are sent by pipeline to the Rodeo facility for upgrading into finished petroleum products.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline and diesel fuels.  Other products include petroleum coke.Process facilities include coking, hydrocracking, hydrotreating and naphtha reforming units.It also produces CARB-grade gasoline.  The majority of the refined products are distributed by pipeline, railcar and barge to customers in California.  Recent improvements have enhanced the refinery's ability to export refined products.



Melaka Refinery

The Melaka Refinery, in Melaka, Malaysia, is a joint venture refinery in which we own a 47 percent interest.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline and diesel fuels.  Melaka capitalizes on hydrocracking and coking technology to upgrade low-cost feedstocks into higher-margin products.  Our share of refined products is transported by tanker and marketed in Malaysia and other Asian markets.







MARKETING AND SPECIALTIES



Our M&S segment purchases for resale and markets refined petroleum products (such as gasolines, distillates and aviation fuels), mainly in the United States and Europe.  In addition, this segment includes the manufacturing and marketing of specialty products (such as lubricants), as well as power generation operations.



Marketing



Marketing—United States

In the United States, as ofDecember 31, 2013, we marketed gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel through approximately 8,600 marketer-owned or -supplied outlets in 48 states.  The majority of these sites utilize thePhillips 66,Conocoor76brands.



AtDecember 31, 2013, our wholesale operations utilized a network of marketers operating approximately 7,100 outlets.  We have placed a strong emphasis on the wholesale channel of trade because of its lower capital requirements.  In addition, we held brand-licensing agreements with approximately 600 sites.  Our refined products are marketed on both a branded and unbranded basis.  A high percentage of our branded marketing sales are made in the Midcontinent, Rockies and West Coast regions, where our wholesale marketing operations provide efficient off-take from our refineries.  During 2013, we entered into multi-year consignment fuels agreements with several marketers.  We own the fuel inventory and control the selling of fuel at the retail sites and the marketer is paid a fixed monthly fee.  Also in 2013, we temporarily






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



acquired a small number of retail sites, approximately one-third of which were sold by year-end, with the remaining sites expected to be sold in 2014 and 2015.  The consignment fuels agreements and the temporary retail site acquisitions were designed to support branded pull through of our refinery production.



The Gulf Coast and East Coast regions do not require a highly integrated marketing and distribution infrastructure to secure product placement for refinery pull through.  In these markets, most sales are conducted via unbranded sales.  We are expanding our export capability at our U.S. coastal refineries to meet growing international demand and increase flexibility to provide product to the highest-value markets.



In addition to automotive gasoline and diesel, we produce and market jet fuel and aviation gasoline, which is used by smaller piston-engine aircraft.  AtDecember 31, 2013, aviation gasoline and jet fuel were sold through dealers and independent marketers at approximately 900Phillips 66-branded locations in the United States.



Marketing—International

We have marketing operations in five European countries.  Our European marketing strategy is to sell primarily through owned, leased or joint venture retail sites using a low-cost, high-volume approach.  We use theJETbrand name to market retail and wholesale products in Austria, Germany and the United Kingdom.  In addition, a joint venture in which we have an equity interest markets products in Switzerland under theCoopbrand name.



We also market aviation fuels, LPG, heating oils, transportation fuels, marine bunker fuels, bitumen and fuel coke specialty products to commercial customers and into the bulk or spot markets in the above countries and Ireland.



As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately 1,440 marketing outlets in our European operations, of which approximately 925 were company owned and 315 were dealer owned.  We also held brand-licensing agreements with approximately 200 sites.  In addition, through our joint venture operations in Switzerland, we have interests in 275 additional sites.



Specialties



We manufacture and sell a variety of specialty products, including petroleum coke products, waxes, solvents, and polypropylene.  Certain manufacturing operations are included in the Refining segment, while the marketing function for these products is included in the Specialties business.



Premium Coke & Polypropylene

We manufacture and market high-quality graphite and anode-grade petroleum cokes in the United States and Europe for use in the global steel and aluminum industries.  We also manufacture and market polypropylene in North America under theCOPYLENEbrand name.



Lubricants

We manufacture and sell automotive, commercial and industrial lubricants which are marketed worldwide under thePhillips 66, Conoco, 76andKendallbrands, as well as other private label brands.  We also market Group IIPure Performancebase oils globally as well as import and market Group IIIUltra-Sbase oils through an agreement with Korea's S-Oil corporation.



Other



Power Generation

We own a 50 percent operating interest in Sweeny Cogeneration, L.P., a joint venture which owns a simple-cycle cogeneration power plant located adjacent to the Sweeny Refinery.  The plant generates electricity and provides process steam to the refinery, as well as merchant power into the Texas market.  The plant has a net electrical output of 440 megawatts and is capable of generating up to 3.6 million pounds per hour of process steam.



In July 2013, we sold our interest in the Immingham Combined Heat and Power Plant.










Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS



Phillips Specialty Products Inc. (PSPI) supplies flow improver products to customers globally.LiquidPowerflow improvers maximize the flow potential of pipelines while increasing their operational flexibility, capacity and economic performance.  On December 30, 2013, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to exchange PSPI for shares of our common stock owned by the other party.  We expect the transaction to close during the first quarter of 2014, subject to customary regulatory reviews.







TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT



Our Technology organization focuses in three areas: 1) advanced engineering optimization for our existing businesses, 2) sustainability technologies for a changing regulatory environment, and 3) future growth opportunities.  Technology creates value through evaluation of advantaged crudes, models for increasing clean product yield, and research to increase safety and reliability.  Research allows Phillips 66 to be well positioned to address issues like corrosion, water consumption, and changing climate regulations, as well as progressing the technology development of second-generation biofuels both internally and with external collaborators.







COMPETITION



The Midstream segment, through our equity investment in DCP Midstream and our other operations, competes with numerous integrated petroleum companies, as well as natural gas transmission and distribution companies, to deliver components of natural gas to end users in the commodity natural gas markets.  DCP Midstream is one of the leading natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States based on wellhead volumes, and one of the largest U.S. producers and marketers of NGL, based on published industry sources.  Principal methods of competing include economically securing the right to purchase raw natural gas for gathering systems, managing the pressure of those systems, operating efficient NGL processing plants and securing markets for the products produced.



In the Chemicals segment, CPChem is generally ranked within the top 10 producers of many of its major product lines, based on average 2013 production capacity, as published by industry sources.  Petroleum products, petrochemicals and plastics are typically delivered into the worldwide commodity markets.  Our Refining and M&S segments compete primarily in the United States, Europe and Asia.  Based on the statistics published in the December 2, 2013, issue of theOil & Gas Journal, we are one of the largest refiners of petroleum products in the United States.  Worldwide, our refining capacity ranked in the top 10 among non-government-controlled companies.  Elements of competition for both our Chemicals and Refining segments include product improvement, new product development, low-cost structures, and efficient manufacturing and distribution systems.  In the marketing portion of the business, competitive factors include product properties and processibility, reliability of supply, customer service, price and credit terms, advertising and sales promotion, and development of customer loyalty to branded products.







GENERAL



AtDecember 31, 2013, we held a total of 510 active patents in 44 countries worldwide, including 216 active U.S. patents.  During2013, we received 24 patents in the United States and 33 foreign patents.  Included in these amounts are patents associated with our flow improver business, which is presented as discontinued operations at year-end 2013.  Our products and processes generated licensing revenues of $17 million in2013.  The overall profitability of any business segment is not dependent on any single patent, trademark, license or franchise.



Company-sponsored research and development activities charged against earnings were$69 million,$70 millionand$69 millionin2013,2012and2011, respectively.



In support of our goal to attain zero incidents, we have implemented a comprehensive Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) management system to support our business units in achieving consistent management of HSE risks across our enterprise.  The management system is designed to ensure that personal safety, process safety, and environmental impact risks are identified and mitigation steps are taken to reduce the risk.  The management system requires periodic audits to






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



ensure compliance with government regulations, as well as our internal requirements.  Our commitment to continuous improvement is reflected in annual goal setting and performance measurement.



Please see the environmental information contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources and Liquidity—Contingencies” under the captions “Environmental” and “Climate Change.”  It includes information on expensed and capitalized environmental costs for 2011-2013 and those expected for 2014.







Website Access to SEC Reports

Our Internet website address ishttp://www.phillips66.com.  Information contained on our Internet website is not part of this report on Form 10-K.



Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC's website athttp://www.sec.gov.












Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



