Items 1 and 2.  BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES







CORPORATE STRUCTURE



Phillips 66, headquartered in Houston, Texas, was incorporated in Delaware on November 10, 2011, in connection with, and in anticipation of, a restructuring of ConocoPhillips.  On April 4, 2012, the ConocoPhillips Board of Directors approved the separation of its downstream businesses into an independent, publicly traded company named Phillips 66.  In accordance with the Separation and Distribution Agreement between ConocoPhillips and Phillips 66, the two companies were separated by ConocoPhillips distributing to its stockholders all 625,272,302 shares of common stock of Phillips 66 after the market closed on April 30, 2012 (the Separation).  Each ConocoPhillips shareholder received one share of Phillips 66 stock for every two shares of ConocoPhillips stock held at the close of business on the record date of April 16, 2012.   A registration statement on Form 10, as amended through the time of its effectiveness, describing the Separation was filed by Phillips 66 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and was declared effective on April 12, 2012 (the Form 10).  On May 1, 2012, Phillips 66 stock began trading “regular-way” on the New York Stock Exchange under the “PSX” stock symbol.



We have organized our reporting structure based on the grouping of similar products and services, resulting in three operating segments:



1)R&M—This segment purchases, refines, markets and transports crude oil and petroleum products, mainly in the United States, Europe and Asia.  This segment also includes power generation operations.  The R&M segment's “refining” and “marketing, specialties and other” operations are disclosed separately for supplemental reporting purposes.



2)Midstream—This segment gathers, processes, transports and markets natural gas; and transports, fractionates and markets natural gas liquids (NGL) in the United States.  The Midstream segment includes our 50 percent equity investment in DCP Midstream, LLC (DCP Midstream).



3)Chemicals—This segment manufactures and markets petrochemicals and plastics on a worldwide basis.  The Chemicals segment consists of our 50 percent equity investment in Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC (CPChem).



At December 31, 2012, Phillips 66 had approximately 13,500 employees.












Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION



For operating segment and geographic information, seeNote 26—Segment Disclosures and Related Information, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated herein by reference.







REFINING AND MARKETING (R&M)



At December 31, 2012, our R&M segment represented 77 percent of Phillips 66's total assets.  Our R&M segment primarily refines crude oil and other feedstocks into petroleum products (such as gasolines, distillates and aviation fuels); buys, sells and transports crude oil; and buys, transports, distributes and markets petroleum products.  This segment also engages in power generation activities.  R&M has operations in the United States, Europe and Asia.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Refining



The table below depicts information for each of our U.S. and international refineries at December 31, 2012:



Thousands of Barrels DailyRegion/RefineryLocationInterestNet Crude ThroughputCapacityNet Clean ProductCapacity**CleanProductYieldCapabilityAtDecember 31, 2012EffectiveJanuary 1, 2013GasolinesDistillatesAtlantic Basin/EuropeBaywayLinden, NJ100.00%23823814511590%HumberN. Lincolnshire, United Kingdom100.002212218511581WhitegateCork, Ireland100.007171153065MiRO*Karlsruhe, Germany18.755858252585588588Gulf CoastAllianceBelle Chasse, LA100.0024724712512086Lake CharlesWestlake, LA100.002392399011570SweenyOld Ocean, TX100.0024724712512087733733Central CorridorWood RiverRoxana, IL49.60152154755583BorgerBorger, TX49.607272502589Ponca CityPonca City, OK100.001871901058091BillingsBillings, MT100.005859352589469475Western/PacificFerndaleFerndale, WA100.00100101553075Los AngelesCarson/ Wilmington, CA100.00139139806588San FranciscoArroyo Grande/San Francisco, CA100.00120120556083MelakaMelaka, Malaysia47.0080802050804394402,2292,236

*Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein GmbH.

**Clean product capacities are maximum rates for each clean product category, independent of each other.  They are not additive when calculating the clean  product yield capability for each refinery.






















Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Primary crude oil characteristics and sources of crude oil for our refineries are as follows:



CharacteristicsSourcesSweetMediumSourHeavySourHighTAN*UnitedStatesCanadaSouthAmericaEurope& Central AsiaMiddle East& AfricaBaywayllllHumberlllllWhitegatelllMiROllllAlliancelllLake CharlesllllllSweenyllllllWood RiverlllllBorgerllllPonca CitylllllBillingslllFerndalellllLos AngeleslllllllSan FranciscollllllMelakallll

*High TAN (Total Acid Number): acid content greater than or equal to 1.0 milligram of potassium hydroxide (KOH) per gram.





Atlantic Basin/Europe Region



Bayway Refinery

The Bayway Refinery is located on the New York Harbor in Linden, New Jersey.  Bayway refining units include a fluid catalytic cracking unit, two hydrodesulfurization units, a reformer, alkylation unit and other processing equipment.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as well as petrochemical feedstocks, residual fuel oil and home heating oil.  Refined products are distributed to East Coast customers by pipeline, barge, railcar and truck.  The complex also includes a 775-million-pound-per-year polypropylene plant.



Humber Refinery

The Humber Refinery is located on the east coast of England in North Lincolnshire, United Kingdom.  It produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline and diesel.  Humber’s facilities encompass fluid catalytic cracking, thermal cracking and coking.  The refinery has two coking units with associated calcining plants, which upgrade the heaviest part of the crude barrel and imported feedstocks into light oil products and high-value graphite and anode petroleum cokes.  Humber is the only coking refinery in the United Kingdom and is one of the world’s largest producers of specialty graphite cokes and one of Europe’s largest anode coke producers.  Approximately 50 percent of the light oils produced in the refinery are marketed in the United Kingdom, while the other products are exported to the rest of Europe and the United States.



Whitegate Refinery

The Whitegate Refinery is located in Cork, Ireland, and is Ireland’s only refinery.  The refinery primarily produces transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and fuel oil, which are distributed to the inland market, as well as being exported to Europe and the United States.  We also operate a crude oil and products storage complex consisting of 7.5 million barrels of storage capacity and an offshore mooring buoy, located in Bantry Bay, about 80 miles southwest of the refinery in southern Cork County.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



MiRO Refinery

The Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein GmbH (MiRO) Refinery, located on the Rhine River in Karlsruhe in southwest Germany, is a joint venture in which we own an 18.75 percent interest.  Facilities include three crude unit trains, fluid catalytic cracking, petroleum coking and calcining, hydrodesulfurization units, reformers, isomerization and aromatics recovery units, ethyl tert-butyl ether (ETBE) and alkylation units.  MiRO produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline and diesel.  Other products include petrochemical feedstocks, home heating oil, bitumen, and anode- and fuel-grade petroleum coke.  Refined products are delivered to customers in southwest Germany, northern Switzerland and western Austria by truck, railcar and barge.



Trainer Refinery

In June 2012, we sold the Trainer Refinery and associated terminal and pipeline assets.



Gulf Coast Region



Alliance Refinery

The Alliance Refinery is located on the Mississippi River in Belle Chasse, Louisiana.  The single-train facility includes fluid catalytic cracking units, hydrodesulfurization units, a reformer and aromatics unit, and a delayed coking unit.  Alliance produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.  Other products include petrochemical feedstocks, home heating oil and anode petroleum coke.  The majority of the refined products are distributed to customers in the southeastern and eastern United States through major common-carrier pipeline systems and by barge.  Refined products are also sold into export markets through the refinery's marine terminal.



Lake Charles Refinery

The Lake Charles Refinery is located in Westlake, Louisiana.  Its facilities include fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, delayed coking and hydrodesulfurization units.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, off-road diesel and jet fuel, along with home heating oil.  The majority of its refined products are distributed by truck, railcar, barge or major common-carrier pipelines to customers in the southeastern and eastern United States.  Refined products can also be sold into export markets through the refinery’s marine terminal.  Refinery facilities also include a specialty coker and calciner, which produce graphite petroleum coke for the steel industry.



Excel Paralubes

We own a 50 percent interest in Excel Paralubes, a joint venture which owns a hydrocracked lubricant base oil manufacturing plant located adjacent to the Lake Charles Refinery.  The facility produces approximately 20,000 barrels per day of high-quality, clear hydrocracked base oils.



Sweeny Refinery

The Sweeny Refinery is located in Old Ocean, Texas, approximately 65 miles southwest of Houston.  Refinery facilities include fluid catalytic cracking, delayed coking, alkylation, a continuous regeneration reformer and hydrodesulfurization units.  The refinery receives crude oil primarily via tankers, through wholly and jointly owned terminals on the Gulf Coast, including a deepwater terminal at Freeport, Texas.  It produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.  Other products include petrochemical feedstocks and home heating oil.  We operate nearby terminals and storage facilities, along with pipelines that connect these facilities to the refinery.  Refined products are distributed throughout the Midwest and southeastern United States by pipeline, barge and railcar.



MSLP

Merey Sweeny, L.P. (MSLP) owns a delayed coker and related facilities at the Sweeny Refinery.  MSLP processes long residue, which is produced from heavy sour crude oil, for a processing fee.  Fuel-grade petroleum coke is produced as a by-product and becomes the property of MSLP.  Prior to August 28, 2009, MSLP was owned 50/50 by ConocoPhillips and Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA).  Under the agreements that govern the relationships between the partners, certain defaults by PDVSA with respect to supply of crude oil to the Sweeny Refinery triggered the right to acquire PDVSA’s 50 percent ownership interest in MSLP, which was exercised on August 28, 2009.  PDVSA has initiated arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerce challenging the exercise of the call right and claiming it was invalid.  The arbitral tribunal held hearings on the merits of the dispute in December 2012, and we expect a final ruling in the fourth quarter of 2013.  Following the Separation, Phillips 66 generally indemnifies ConocoPhillips for liabilities, if any, arising out of the exercise of the call right or otherwise with respect to the joint venture or the refinery.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Central Corridor Region



WRB Refining LP (WRB)

We are the operator and managing partner of WRB, which consists of the Wood River and Borger refineries.



Prior to the Separation, ConocoPhillips had two 50/50 North American business ventures with Cenovus Energy Inc. (Cenovus): a Canadian upstream general partnership, FCCL Partnership (FCCL), and a downstream U.S. limited partnership, WRB Refining LP.  In accordance with the Separation and Distribution Agreement, ConocoPhillips retained its 50 percent interest in FCCL and a 0.4 percent interest in WRB, while contributing its remaining 49.6 percent interest in WRB to us in the Separation.  We expect to purchase ConocoPhillips' 0.4 percent interest in WRB during 2013.



WRB’s gross processing capability of heavy Canadian or similar crudes ranges between 235,000 and 255,000 barrels per day after the completion of the coker and refining expansion (CORE) project at the Wood River Refinery, which occurred in late 2011.



•Wood River Refinery

The Wood River Refinery is located in Roxana, Illinois, about 15 miles northeast of St. Louis, Missouri, at the convergence of the Mississippi and Missouri rivers.  Operations include three distilling units, two fluid catalytic cracking units, hydrocracking, coking, reforming, hydrotreating and sulfur recovery.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.  Other products include petrochemical feedstocks, asphalt and coke.  Finished product leaves Wood River by pipeline, rail, barge and truck.  The CORE Project resulted in a 5 percent increase in clean product yield and doubled gross heavy crude oil capacity to between 200,000 and 220,000 barrels per day, dependent on the quality of available heavy crudes.



•Borger Refinery

The Borger Refinery is located in Borger, Texas, in the Texas Panhandle, approximately 50 miles north of Amarillo.  The refinery facilities encompass coking, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrodesulfurization and naphtha reforming, and a 45,000-barrel-per-day NGL fractionation facility.  It produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, as well as coke, NGL and solvents.  Refined products are transported via pipelines from the refinery to West Texas, New Mexico, Colorado and the Midcontinent region.



In connection with the Separation, we entered into a put agreement and a feedstock right of first offer agreement with Cenovus.  Under the put agreement, if Cenovus suffers a transportation constraint it cannot mitigate which threatens to shut in FCCL production, we will be required to purchase FCCL-produced crude oil from Cenovus, subject to a maximum daily volume amount and provided we have pipeline capacity available after meeting any other contractual obligations, at a price equal to the lower of fair market value or the “break even value” of such crude oil compared to other crude oils that could be processed at one of our refineries.  Under the feedstock right of first offer agreement, if we plan to enter into a six-month or longer term agreement to acquire Canadian crude oil for the Wood River Refinery or the Borger Refinery, we will be required to first notify Cenovus and offer Cenovus the opportunity to supply FCCL-produced crude oil according to the specified terms.



Ponca City Refinery

The Ponca City Refinery is located in Ponca City, Oklahoma.  Its facilities include fluid catalytic cracking, delayed coking and hydrodesulfurization units.  It produces a full range of products, including gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and anode-grade petroleum coke.  Finished petroleum products are primarily shipped by company-owned and common carrier pipelines to markets throughout the Midcontinent region.



Billings Refinery

The Billings Refinery is located in Billings, Montana.  Its facilities include fluid catalytic cracking and hydrodesulfurization units, in addition to a delayed coker, which converts heavy, high-sulfur residue into higher-value light oils.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and aviation fuels, as well as fuel-grade petroleum coke.  Finished petroleum products from the refinery are delivered by pipeline, railcar and truck.  The pipelines transport most of the refined products to markets in Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Washington State.




















Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Western/Pacific Region



Ferndale Refinery

The Ferndale Refinery is located on Puget Sound in Ferndale, Washington, approximately 20 miles south of the U.S.-Canada border.  Facilities include a fluid catalytic cracker, an alkylation unit, a diesel hydrotreater and an S-ZorbTMunit.  The refinery produces transportation fuels such as gasoline and diesel.  Other products include residual fuel oil, which supplies the northwest marine transportation market.  Most refined products are distributed by pipeline and barge to major markets in the northwest United States.



Los Angeles Refinery

The Los Angeles Refinery consists of two linked facilities located about five miles apart in Carson and Wilmington, California, approximately 15 miles southeast of Los Angeles International Airport.  Carson serves as the front end of the refinery by processing crude oil, and Wilmington serves as the back end by upgrading the intermediate products to finished products.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.  Other products include fuel-grade petroleum coke.  The refinery produces California Air Resources Board (CARB)-grade gasoline by blending ethanol to meet government-mandated oxygenate requirements.  Refined products are distributed to customers in California, Nevada and Arizona by pipeline and truck.



San Francisco Refinery

The San Francisco Refinery consists of two facilities linked by a 200-mile pipeline.  The Santa Maria facility is located in Arroyo Grande, California, about 200 miles south of San Francisco, California, while the Rodeo facility is in the San Francisco Bay Area.  Semi-refined liquid products from the Santa Maria facility are sent by pipeline to the Rodeo facility for upgrading into finished petroleum products.  The refinery produces a high percentage of transportation fuels, such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel.  Other products include petroleum coke.  It also produces CARB-grade gasoline by blending ethanol to meet government-mandated oxygenate requirements.  The majority of the refined products are distributed by pipeline, railcar and barge to customers in California.



Melaka Refinery

The Melaka Refinery in Melaka, Malaysia, is a joint venture refinery in which we own a 47 percent interest.  Melaka produces a full range of refined petroleum products and capitalizes on coking technology to upgrade low-cost feedstocks into higher-margin products.  Our share of refined products is transported by tanker and marketed in Malaysia and other Asian markets.





Marketing



Marketing—United States

In the United States, as of December 31, 2012, we marketed gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel through approximately 8,500 marketer-owned or -supplied outlets in 49 states.  The majority of these sites utilize thePhillips 66,Conocoor76brands.



At December 31, 2012, our wholesale operations utilized a network of marketers operating approximately 7,100 outlets.  We have placed a strong emphasis on the wholesale channel of trade because of its lower capital requirements.  In addition, we held brand-licensing agreements with approximately 500 sites.  Our refined products are marketed on both a branded and unbranded basis.  A high percentage of our branded marketing sales are made in the Midcontinent, Rockies and West Coast regions, where our wholesale marketing operations provide efficient off-take from our refineries.  The Gulf Coast and East Coast regions do not require a highly integrated marketing and distribution infrastructure to secure product placement for refinery pull-through.  In these markets, most sales are conducted via unbranded sales.  We are expanding our export capability at our U.S. coastal refineries to meet growing international demand and increase flexibility to provide product to the highest-value markets.



In addition to automotive gasoline and diesel, we produce and market jet fuel and aviation gasoline, which is used by smaller piston-engine aircraft.  At December 31, 2012, aviation gasoline and jet fuel were sold through dealers and independent marketers at approximately 900Phillips 66-branded locations in the United States.



Lubricants

We manufacture and sell automotive, commercial and industrial lubricants which are marketed worldwide under thePhillips 66, Conoco, 76andKendallbrands, as well as other private label brands.  We also manufacture Group II and import Group III base oils and market both globally under the respective brand namesPure PerformanceandUltra-S.










Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Premium Coke & Polypropylene

We manufacture and market high-quality graphite and anode-grade petroleum cokes in the United States and Europe for use in the global steel and aluminum industries.  We also manufacture and market polypropylene to North America under theCOPYLENEbrand name.



Marketing—International

We have marketing operations in five European countries.  Our European marketing strategy is to sell primarily through owned, leased or joint venture retail sites using a low-cost, high-volume approach.  We use theJETbrand name to market retail and wholesale products in Austria, Germany and the United Kingdom.  In addition, a joint venture in which we have an equity interest markets products in Switzerland under theCoopbrand name.



We also market aviation fuels, LPG, heating oils, transportation fuels, marine bunker fuels, bitumen and fuel coke specialty products to commercial customers and into the bulk or spot market in the above countries and Ireland.



As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 1,425 marketing outlets in our European operations, of which approximately 915 were company owned and 310 were dealer owned.  We also held brand-licensing agreements with approximately 200 sites.  In addition, through our joint venture operations in Switzerland, we have interests in 250 additional sites.





Transportation



We own or lease various assets to provide environmentally safe, strategic and timely delivery of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and NGL.  These assets include pipeline systems; petroleum product, crude oil and LPG terminals; a petroleum coke handling facility; a fleet of marine vessels; and a fleet of railcars.



Pipelines and Terminals

At December 31, 2012, our Transportation organization managed over 18,000 miles of crude oil, natural gas, NGL and petroleum products pipeline systems in the United States, including those partially owned or operated by affiliates and approximately 3,200 miles reported in our Midstream segment for the Rockies Express, Sand Hills and Southern Hills pipeline systems.  We owned or operated 39 finished product terminals, 37 storage locations, 5 LPG terminals, 10 crude oil terminals and 1 petroleum coke exporting facility.



In June 2012, we sold the Trainer Refinery with associated terminal and pipeline assets, and in November 2012, we sold the Riverhead Terminal.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



The following table depicts our ownership interest in major R&M pipeline systems as of December 31, 2012:







NameOrigination/TerminusInterestSizeMilesCapacityMBD

Crude

Coast and Valley SystemCentral CA/Bay Area, CA100%8”-12”702307

Clifton RidgeClifton Ridge, LA/Westlake, LA10020”10270

Cushing (CushPo)Cushing, OK/Ponca City, OK10018”62130

WA LineOdessa, TX/Borger, TX10012”, 14”300118

Oklahoma Mainline/CPLWichita Falls, TX/Ponca City, OK10012”217100

Line OCushing, OK/Borger, TX10010”27637

Line 80 (Gaines Borger)Gaines, TX/Borger, TX1008”, 12”23733

GlacierCut Bank, MT/Billings, MT798”-12”865100



Petroleum Product

Sweeny to PasadenaSweeny, TX/Pasadena, TX10012”, 18”120264

Gold LineBorger, TX/St. Louis, IL1008”-16”681120

StandishMarland Junction, OK/Wichita, KS10018”10080

Borger to AmarilloBorger, TX/Amarillo, TX1008”, 10”9376

Wood RiverPonca City, OK/Mt. Vernon, MO10010”, 12”25045

Okla. City/Cherokee 8”Ponca City, OK/Okla. City, OK1008”21546

Wichita/Ark City 1&2Ponca City, OK/Wichita, KS1008”, 10”10555

SeminoeBillings, MT/Sinclair, WY1006”-10”34233

Borger-DenverMcKee, TX/Denver, CO706”-12”40538

PioneerSinclair, WY/Salt Lake City, UT508”, 12”56263

ATA LineAmarillo, TX/Albuquerque, NM506”, 10”29320

HeartlandMcPherson, KS/Des Moines, IA508”, 6”4930

YellowstoneBillings, MT/Spokane, WA466”-10”71066

HarborWoodbury, NJ/Linden, NJ3316”80104

SAALAmarillo, TX/Amarillo andLubbock, TX336”12118

ExplorerTexas Gulf Coast/Chicago, IL1424”, 28”1,835500



NGL

Line EZRankin, TX/Sweeny, TX100*10”434101

Blue LineBorger, TX/St. Louis, IL1008”-12”66629

Powder RiverDouglas, WY/Borger, TX1006”-8”69519

ChisholmKingfisher, OK/Conway, KS508”-10”20242

Skelly-BelvieuSkellytown, TX/Mont Belvieu, TX508”57129



LPG

Medford PBCPonca City, OK/Medford, OK1004”-12”4260

Conway to WichitaConway, KS/Wichita, KS10012”5538

*100% interest held by CPChem. Operated by Phillips 66.














Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Tankers

At December 31, 2012, we utilized 12 double-hulled crude oil tankers that we chartered, with capacities ranging in size from 713,000 to 2,100,000 barrels.  These tankers are primarily used to transport feedstocks to certain of our refineries.  Additionally, in 2012, we entered into time charters on two Jones Act tankers to deliver shale crude to our Gulf Coast and East Coast refineries.



Truck and Rail

Truck and rail operations support our U.S. refinery and specialty operations.  Rail movements are provided via a diverse fleet of more than 8,500 owned and leased railcars.  In October 2012, we entered into an operating lease covering 2,000 new railcars under construction.  We took delivery of the first 50 railcars in February 2013, and the remaining railcars are expected to be delivered in batches throughout 2013 and early 2014.  This is an expansion of our existing rail business and will encompass delivery of advantaged crude to our refineries on the East and West Coasts.  Truck movements are provided through approximately 150 third-party truck companies, as well as through Sentinel Transportation LLC, in which we hold an equity interest.





Specialty Businesses



We manufacture and sell a variety of specialty products including pipeline flow improvers and anode material for high-power lithium-ion batteries.  Our specialty products are marketed under theLiquidPowerandCPremebrand names.





Other



Immingham Combined Heat and Power Plant

The Immingham Combined Heat and Power Plant is a wholly owned 1,180-megawatt facility in the United Kingdom, which provides steam and electricity to the Humber Refinery and steam to a neighboring refinery, as well as merchant power into the U.K. market.  The plant is capable of generating up to approximately 2.0 million pounds per hour of process steam.



Sweeny Cogeneration

We own a 50 percent operating interest in Sweeny Cogeneration, L.P., a joint venture which owns a simple-cycle cogeneration power plant located adjacent to the Sweeny Refinery.  The plant generates electricity and provides process steam to the refinery, as well as merchant power into the Texas market.  The plant has a net electrical output of 440 megawatts and is capable of generating up to 3.6 million pounds per hour of process steam.







MIDSTREAM



The Midstream segment purchases raw natural gas from producers and gathers natural gas through an extensive network of pipeline gathering systems.  The natural gas is then processed to extract NGL from the raw gas stream.  The remaining residue gas is marketed to electric utilities, industrial users and gas marketing companies.  Most of the NGL is fractionated—separated into individual components such as ethane, propane and butane—and marketed as chemical feedstock, fuel or blendstock.  Total NGL extracted in 2012, including our share of equity affiliates, was 201,000 barrels per day, compared with 192,000 barrels per day in 2011.  The Midstream segment also includes an interstate natural gas transmission line.



DCP Midstream

Our Midstream segment includes our 50 percent equity investment in DCP Midstream, which is headquartered in Denver, Colorado.  As of December 31, 2012, DCP Midstream owned or operated 62 natural gas processing facilities, with a net processing capacity of approximately 7.1 billion cubic feet per day.  Its natural gas pipeline systems included gathering services for these facilities, as well as natural gas transmission, and totaled approximately 63,000 miles of pipeline.  DCP Midstream also owned or operated 12 NGL fractionation plants, along with natural gas and NGL storage facilities, a propane wholesale marketing business and NGL pipeline assets.



In 2012, DCP Midstream gathered, processed and/or transported an average of 7.1 trillion British thermal units (TBTU) per day of natural gas, and produced approximately 402,000 barrels per day of NGL, compared with 7.0 TBTU per day and 383,000 barrels per day in 2011.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



The residual natural gas, primarily methane, which results from processing raw natural gas, is sold by DCP Midstream at market-based prices to marketers and end users, including large industrial companies, natural gas distribution companies and electric utilities.  DCP Midstream purchases or takes custody of substantially all of its raw natural gas from producers, principally under the following types of contractual arrangements.  More than 70 percent of the natural gas volumes gathered and processed are under percentage-of-proceeds contracts.



•Percentage-of-proceeds/index arrangements.In general, DCP Midstream purchases natural gas from producers at the wellhead or other receipt points, gathers the wellhead natural gas through its gathering system, treats and processes it, and then sells the residue natural gas and NGL based on index prices from published market indices.  DCP Midstream remits to the producers either an agreed-upon percentage of the actual proceeds received from the sale of the residue natural gas and NGL, or an agreed-upon percentage of the proceeds based on index-related prices for natural gas and NGL, regardless of the actual amount of sales proceeds which DCP Midstream receives.  Certain of these arrangements may also result in DCP Midstream returning all or a portion of the residue natural gas and/or the NGL to the producer in lieu of returning sales proceeds.  DCP Midstream's revenues from percentage-of-proceeds/index arrangements relate directly with the price of NGL and, to a lesser extent, natural gas and crude oil.



•Fee-based arrangements.DCP Midstream receives a fee or fees for one or more of the following services: gathering, processing, compressing, treating, storing or transporting natural gas and fractionating, storing and transporting NGL.  Fee-based arrangements include natural gas purchase arrangements pursuant to which DCP Midstream purchases natural gas at the wellhead or other receipt points at an index-related price at the delivery point less a specified amount, generally the same as the fees it would otherwise charge for gathering the natural gas from the wellhead location to the delivery point.  The revenue DCP Midstream earns from these arrangements is directly related to the volume of natural gas or NGL that flows through its systems and is not directly dependent on commodity prices.  However, to the extent that a sustained decline in commodity prices results in a decline in volumes, DCP Midstream's revenues from these arrangements could be reduced.



•Keep-whole and wellhead purchase arrangements.DCP Midstream gathers raw natural gas from producers for processing, markets the NGL and returns to the producer residue natural gas with a British thermal unit (BTU) content equivalent to the BTU content of the natural gas gathered.  This arrangement keeps the producer whole in regard to the thermal value of the natural gas received.  Under the terms of a wellhead purchase contract, DCP Midstream purchases natural gas from the producer at the wellhead or defined receipt point for processing and markets the resulting NGL and residue gas at market prices.  DCP Midstream is exposed to the difference between the value of the NGL extracted from processing and the value of the BTU-equivalent of the residue natural gas, or "frac spread."  Under these type of contracts, DCP Midstream benefits in periods when NGL prices are higher relative to natural gas prices.

DCP Midstream markets a portion of its NGL to us and CPChem under an existing 15-year supply agreement, with a primary term ending December 31, 2014.  Should the contract not be renegotiated or renewed, it provides for a five-year ratable wind-down period.  This purchase commitment is on an “if-produced, will-purchase” basis and is expected to have a relatively stable purchase pattern over the remaining term of the contract.  Under the agreement, NGL is purchased at various published market-index prices, less transportation and fractionation fees.

DCP Midstream is constructing a natural gas processing plant in the Eagle Ford shale area of Texas.  The plant, named the Eagle Plant, is expected to have a capacity of 200 million cubic feet per day and be accompanied by related NGL infrastructure.  The Eagle Plant is mechanically complete and is in the process of commencing operations, and will increase DCP Midstream's total natural gas processing capacity in the area to 1 billion cubic feet per day.

DCP Midstream is building two major NGL pipelines. The Sand Hills Pipeline will consist of approximately 720 miles of pipeline with initial capacity of 200,000 barrels per day, with expansion to 350,000 barrels per day possible.  The Sand Hills Pipeline will provide NGL transportation from the Permian Basin and Eagle Ford region to the premium NGL markets on the Gulf Coast.  In December 2012, the first phase of the Sand Hills Pipeline, which extends from Eagle Ford to Mont Belvieu, was placed in service.  The second phase of the project, with deliveries from the Permian Basin, is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2013.



The Southern Hills Pipeline will consist of more than 800 miles of NGL pipeline with initial capacity of approximately 150,000 barrels per day of Y-grade NGL, with expansion to 175,000 barrels per day expected.  The Southern Hills Pipeline will be connected to several DCP Midstream processing plants and anticipated third-party producers, and will provide NGL transportation from the Midcontinent to Mont Belvieu, Texas.  The Southern Hills Pipeline is expected to be in service in mid-2013.








Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



During the fourth quarter of 2012, Spectra Energy and Phillips 66 each acquired a one-third direct interest in both the Southern Hills and Sand Hills pipeline projects from DCP Midstream.



Rockies Express Pipeline LLC (REX)

We have a 25 percent interest in REX.  The REX natural gas pipeline runs 1,679 miles from Cheyenne, Colorado, to Clarington, Ohio, and has a natural gas transmission capacity of 1.8 billion cubic feet per day, with most of its system having a pipeline diameter of 42 inches.  Numerous compression facilities support the pipeline system.  The REX pipeline is designed to enable natural gas producers in the Rocky Mountain region to deliver natural gas supplies to the Midwest and eastern regions of the United States.



Other Midstream

Outside of DCP Midstream and REX, our U.S. natural gas and NGL business includes the following:



•A one-third direct interest in both the Sand Hills and Southern Hills pipeline projects, which currently are under construction by DCP Midstream.



•A 22.5 percent equity interest in Gulf Coast Fractionators, which owns an NGL fractionation plant in Mont Belvieu, Texas.  We operate the facility, and our net share of capacity is 32,625 barrels per day.  In July 2012, the previously announced expansion of Gulf Coast Fractionators became operational and the total capacity of the fractionation facility expanded to 145,000 barrels per day.



•A 40 percent interest in a fractionation plant in Conway, Kansas.  Our net share of capacity is 43,200 barrels per day.



•A 12.5 percent equity interest in a fractionation plant in Mont Belvieu, Texas.  Our net share of capacity is 26,000 barrels per day.



•Marketing operations that optimize the flow of NGL and market propane on a wholesale basis.







CHEMICALS



The Chemicals segment consists of our 50 percent equity investment in CPChem, which is headquartered in The Woodlands, Texas.  At the end of 2012, CPChem owned or had joint-venture interests in 36 manufacturing facilities and 2 research and development centers around the world.



CPChem’s business is structured around two primary operating segments: Olefins and Polyolefins (O&P) and Specialties, Aromatics and Styrenics (SA&S).  The O&P segment produces and markets ethylene, propylene, and other olefin products, which are primarily consumed within CPChem for the production of polyethylene, normal alpha olefins, polypropylene and polyethylene pipe.  The SA&S segment manufactures and markets aromatics products, such as benzene, styrene, paraxylene and cyclohexane, as well as polystyrene and styrene-butadiene copolymers.  SA&S also manufactures and/or markets a variety of specialty chemical products including organosulfur chemicals, solvents, catalysts, drilling chemicals, mining chemicals and high-performance engineering plastics and compounds.



The manufacturing of petrochemicals and plastics involves the conversion of hydrocarbon-based raw material feedstock into higher-value products, often through a thermal process referred to in the industry as “cracking.”  For example, ethylene can be produced from cracking the feedstocks ethane, propane, butane, natural gasoline or certain refinery liquids, such as naphtha and gas oil.  The produced ethylene has a number of uses, primarily as a raw material for the production of plastics, such as polyethylene and polyvinyl chloride (PVC).  Plastic resins, such as polyethylene, are manufactured in a thermal/catalyst process, and the produced output is used as a further raw material for various applications, such as packaging and plastic pipe.



CPChem, including through its subsidiaries and equity affiliates, has manufacturing facilities located in Belgium, China, Colombia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea and the United States.






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



The following table reflects CPChem’s petrochemicals and plastics product capacities at December 31, 2012:



Millions of Pounds per YearU.S.WorldwideO&PEthylene7,83010,305Propylene2,9753,480High-density polyethylene4,2056,500Low-density polyethylene620620Linear low-density polyethylene420420Polypropylene—310Normal alpha olefins1,4902,005Polyalphaolefins105235Polyethylene pipe590590Total O&P18,23524,465SA&SBenzene1,6002,530Cyclohexane1,0601,455Paraxylene1,0001,000Styrene1,0501,875Polystyrene8351,335K-Resin®SBC100170Specialty chemicals605705Ryton®PPS5575Total SA&S6,3059,145

Capacities include CPChem’s share in equity affiliates.





In December 2011, CPChem announced plans to pursue a project to construct a world-scale ethane cracker and two polyethylene facilities in the U.S. Gulf Coast region.  The project would leverage the development of significant shale gas resources in the United States.  CPChem's Cedar Bayou facility in Baytown, Texas, would be the location of the 3.3 billion-pound-per-year ethylene unit.  In April 2012, CPChem announced that the two polyethylene facilities, each with an annual capacity of 1.1 billion pounds, would be located on a site near CPChem's Sweeny facility in Old Ocean, Texas.  The final investment decision is expected in 2013.



In March 2012, CPChem announced plans to expand the NGL Fractionator Complex at its Sweeny facility in Old Ocean, Texas.  The NGL fractionation expansion will increase its capacity by approximately 22,000 barrels per day, or a 19 percent increase over its current capacity.  The project is expected to be completed in 2013.



In April 2012, CPChem announced plans to build a 1-hexene plant capable of producing up to 550 million pounds per year at its Cedar Bayou facility in Baytown, Texas.  1-hexene, a normal alpha olefin, is a critical component used in the manufacture of polyethylene, a plastic resin commonly converted into film, pipe, detergent bottles and food and beverage containers.  Construction started in 2012, and the project is anticipated to start up during the first half of 2014.



Saudi Polymers Company (SPCo), a 35-percent-owned joint venture company of CPChem, owns and operates an integrated petrochemicals complex adjacent to S-Chem (two 50/50 SA&S joint ventures) at Jubail Industrial City, Saudi Arabia.  SPCo produces ethylene, propylene, polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene and 1-hexene.  SPCo announced commercial production in October 2012.



In association with the SPCo project, CPChem committed to build a nylon 6,6 manufacturing plant and a number of polymer conversion projects at Jubail Industrial City, Saudi Arabia.  The projects are being undertaken through CPChem's 50 percent owned joint venture company Petrochemical Conversion Company Ltd.  The projects are slated to begin operations in 2013.










Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Our agreement with Chevron regarding CPChem permits Chevron to buy our 50 percent interest in CPChem for fair market value if, at any time after the Separation, we experience a change in control or if both Standard & Poor's Ratings Services (S&P) and Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) lower our credit ratings below investment grade and the credit rating from either rating agency remains below investment grade for 365 days thereafter, with fair market value determined by agreement or by nationally recognized investment banks.







TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT



Our Technology organization focuses in three areas: 1) advanced engineering optimization for our existing businesses, 2) sustainability technologies for a changing regulatory environment, and 3) future growth opportunities.  Technology creates value through evaluation of advantaged crudes, models for increasing clean product yield, and through research to increase safety and reliability.  Research allows Phillips 66 to be well positioned to address threats like corrosion, water consumption, and changing climate regulations.  For example, we are progressing the technology development of second-generation biofuels both internally and with external collaborators.







COMPETITION



Our R&M segment competes primarily in the United States, Europe and Asia.  Based on the statistics published in the December 3, 2012, issue of theOil & Gas Journal, we are one of the largest refiners of petroleum products in the United States.  Worldwide, our refining capacity ranked in the top 10 among non-government-controlled companies.  In the Chemicals segment, CPChem generally ranked within the top 10 producers of many of its major product lines, based on average 2012 production capacity, as published by industry sources.  Petroleum products, petrochemicals and plastics are typically delivered into the worldwide commodity markets.  Elements of competition for both our R&M and Chemicals segments include product improvement, new product development, low-cost structures, and efficient manufacturing and distribution systems.  In the marketing portion of the business, competitive factors include product properties and processibility, reliability of supply, customer service, price and credit terms, advertising and sales promotion, and development of customer loyalty to branded products.



The Midstream segment, through our equity investment in DCP Midstream and our other operations, competes with numerous integrated petroleum companies, as well as natural gas transmission and distribution companies, to deliver components of natural gas to end users in the commodity natural gas markets.  DCP Midstream is one of the leading natural gas gatherers and processors in the United States based on wellhead volumes, and one of the largest U.S. producers and marketers of NGL, based on published industry sources.  Principal methods of competing include economically securing the right to purchase raw natural gas for gathering systems, managing the pressure of those systems, operating efficient NGL processing plants and securing markets for the products produced.







GENERAL



At December 31, 2012, we held a total of 493 active patents in 46 countries worldwide, including 211 active U.S. patents. During 2012, we received 16 patents in the United States and 40 foreign patents.  Our products and processes generated licensing revenues of $14 million in 2012.  The overall profitability of any business segment is not dependent on any single patent, trademark, license or franchise.



Company-sponsored research and development activities charged against earnings were $76 million, $74 million and $56 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.



In support of our goal to attain zero incidents, we have implemented a comprehensive Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) management system to support our business units in achieving consistent management of HSE risks across our enterprise.  The management system is designed to ensure that personal safety, process safety, and environmental impact risks are identified and mitigation steps are taken to reduce the risk.  The management system requires periodic audits to ensure compliance with government regulations, as well as our internal requirements.  Our commitment to continuous improvement is reflected in annual goal setting and performance measurement.



Please see the environmental information contained in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Resources and Liquidity—Contingencies” under the captions “Environmental” and “Climate






Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



Change.” It includes information on expensed and capitalized environmental costs for 2012 and those expected for 2013 and 2014.







Website Access to SEC Reports

Our Internet website address ishttp://www.phillips66.com.  Information contained on our Internet website is not part of this report on Form 10-K.



Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC's website athttp://www.sec.gov.












Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements



