Item 1A. Risk Factors



To date, the Company has not conducted any material activities other than those incidental to its formation and the matters contemplated by the business combination agreement. Important risk factors that could impact Linde plc’s future operations, financial performance and the trading prices of its common shares are presented below. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with discussions of Linde plc’s activities located elsewhere in this Form 10-K and the risk factors, including risks related to Praxair’s and Linde’s businesses, included or incorporated by reference into Linde plc’s subsequent filings with the SEC.



Linde plc, Praxair and Linde must obtain governmental and regulatory approvals to consummate the business combination, which could delay the completion of the business combination or, if not granted, would result in a termination of the business combination. In addition, conditions imposed by such agencies in connection with their approvals may adversely impact the business, financial condition or results of operations of the combined group.

Completion of the business combination remains conditioned upon regulatory approval or expiration or termination of













In addition, the business combination agreement, or certain covenants therein, may be terminated for, or may terminate as a result of, certain reasons, including, among others, a permanent injunction or order by any governmental entity in Ireland, the United Kingdom, Germany or the United States that prohibits or makes illegal the completion of the business combination, the occurrence of a change, event, occurrence or effect that has had or is reasonably expected to have a “material adverse change” (as defined in the business combination agreement) on Linde AG or Praxair, Inc. or the failure to obtain approval by requisite governmental regulators and authorities described in the preceding paragraph. No assurance can be given that no event giving rise to termination of the business combination agreement will occur.



Because the exchange ratios in the merger and the exchange offer are fixed, the market value of the Linde plc shares received by Praxair shareholders in the merger or by Linde AG shareholders in the exchange offer may be less than the market value of the Praxair or Linde AG shares that such holder held prior to the completion of the business combination.

Praxair shareholders will receive one Linde plc share for each of their Praxair shares in the merger and Linde AG shareholders who tendered their Linde AG shares in the exchange offer will receive 1.540 Linde plc shares for each Linde AG share tendered and not withdrawn. These exchange ratios are fixed and will not vary even if the market price of Praxair shares or Linde AG shares varies. The market value of Praxair shares and Linde AG shares at the time of the completion of the business combination may vary significantly from the value on the date of the execution of the business combination agreement, the date of this document, the date on which Praxair shareholders voted on the merger, the date on which Linde AG shareholders tendered their shares in the exchange offer or the expiration of the acceptance period. Because the exchange ratios will not be adjusted to reflect any changes in the market price of the Praxair shares or Linde AG shares, the value of the consideration paid to the Praxair shareholders in the merger or to the Linde AG shareholders who tendered their shares in the exchange offer may be lower than the market value of their Praxair or Linde AG shares, respectively, on earlier dates.









Changes in share prices may result from a variety of factors that are beyond the control of Linde plc, Praxair and Linde, including their respective business, operations and prospects, market conditions, economic development, geopolitical events, regulatory considerations, governmental actions, legal proceedings and other developments. Market assessments of the benefits of the business combination and of the likelihood that the business combination will be completed, as well as general and industry-specific market and economic conditions, may also have an adverse effect on share prices.

The pendency of the business combination, during which Praxair and Linde are subject to certain operating restrictions, could have an adverse effect on Linde plc’s, Praxair’s and Linde’s businesses and cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

Further, certain adverse changes in the business of Linde or Praxair in the period prior to the closing of the business combination may occur that would not result in Praxair, Linde or Linde plc having the right to terminate the business combination agreement, or certain covenants therein. If adverse changes occur but Praxair and Linde are still required to complete the business combination, the market value of Praxair shares, Linde AG shares or Linde plc shares may decrease. If the business combination is not completed, these risks may still materialize and materially adversely affect the business and financial results of Linde plc.

Negative publicity related to the business combination may materially adversely affect Linde plc, Praxair and Linde.

From time to time, political and public sentiment in connection with a business combination may result in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse public statements affecting the parties to the business combination. Adverse press coverage and public statements, whether or not driven by political or popular sentiment, may also result in legal claims or in investigations by regulators, legislators and law enforcement officials. Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceedings, can divert the time and effort of senior management from operating their businesses. Addressing any adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or enforcement or other legal proceedings could be time-consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, could have a negative impact on the reputation of Linde plc, Praxair and Linde, on the morale and performance of their employees and on their relationships with regulators, suppliers and customers. It may also have a negative impact on their ability to take timely advantage of various business and market opportunities. The direct and indirect effects of negative publicity, and the demands of responding to and addressing it, may have a material adverse effect on Linde plc’s, Praxair’s and Linde’s respective business and cash flows, financial condition and results of operations

Upon completion of the business combination, certain change-of-control rights under material agreements may be triggered.

Praxair and Linde are parties to agreements that contain change-of-control provisions that may be triggered upon completion of the business combination. Upon the triggering of these change-of-control provisions, the counterparties to the agreement may be able to exercise certain rights that have a negative effect on Praxair, Linde or, after the business combination,









Linde plc. For example, the terms of Linde’s approximately €8.5 billion notes outstanding include change of control clauses triggered by a change of control of Linde AG and a resulting below investment grade ratings downgrade of Linde AG’s corporate and debt ratings. In addition, Linde’s €2.5 billion undrawn syndicated credit facility and Praxair’s $2.5 billion credit facility each include a change of control clause relating to a change of control of Linde AG and Praxair, Inc., respectively. If parties to agreements with change-of-control provisions exercise such rights, contracts that are beneficial to Linde or Praxair may be terminated which may have an adverse effect on the business, the cash flows and the financial condition and results of operations of Linde plc, Praxair and Linde.

The business combination triggered a mandatory takeover offer with respect to Linde’s listed local subsidiary in India, and may require such mandatory takeover offers in other jurisdictions.

Praxair and Linde have incurred and will continue to incur significant transaction fees and costs in connection with the business combination.

Praxair and Linde expect to continue to incur a number of significant non-recurring implementation and restructuring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies. In addition, Praxair and Linde will incur significant banking, legal, accounting and other transaction fees and costs related to the business combination. Additional costs substantially in excess of currently anticipated costs may also be incurred in connection with the integration of the businesses of Praxair and Linde.

Any cost savings or other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses that could offset these transaction- and combination-related costs over time may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. In addition, the timeline in which cost savings are expected to be realized is lengthy and may not be achieved. Failure to realize these synergies and cost reductions and other efficiencies in a timely manner or at all could have a material adverse effect on Linde plc’s, Praxair’s and Linde’s respective businesses and cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

Linde plc may fail to realize the anticipated strategic and financial benefits sought from the business combination.

Linde plc may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination. The success of the business combination will depend on, among other things, Linde plc’s ability to combine Praxair’s business with Linde’s business in a manner that facilitates growth and realizes anticipated cost savings. In addition, the actual integration of Praxair and Linde will involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. This process will be time-consuming and expensive, and it may be disruptive to the combined businesses. Linde plc may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the business combination. Difficulties in the integration of the businesses, which may result in significant costs and delays, include:

•managing a significantly larger combined group;

•aligning and executing the strategy of the combined group;

•integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to customers and coordinating distribution and marketing efforts in geographically separate organizations;

•coordinating corporate and administrative infrastructures and aligning insurance coverage;

•coordinating accounting, information technology, communications, administration and other systems;

•addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies;

•the combined group becoming subject to Irish laws and regulations and legal action in Ireland;

•coordinating the compliance program and creating uniform financial reporting, information technology and other standards, controls, procedures and policies;









•the implementation, ultimate impact and outcome of potential post-completion reorganization transactions, which may be delayed or not take effect as a result of litigation or otherwise;

•unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the business combination or Linde plc’s business;

•managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined group;

•identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets;

•effecting actions that may be required in connection with obtaining regulatory approvals; and

•a deterioration of credit ratings.



These and other factors could result in increased costs and diversion of management’s time and energy, as well as decreases in the amount of expected revenue and earnings, which could materially impact Linde plc’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the business combination may also adversely affect Linde plc’s relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, distributors, licensors and others with whom Praxair and Linde have business or other dealings, and difficulties in integrating the businesses of Praxair and Linde could harm the reputation of the combined group.

If the combined group is not able to successfully combine the businesses of Praxair and Linde in an efficient, cost-effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the business combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected.

Linde plc intends to implement certain post-closing reorganization transactions with respect to Linde AG. If the effectiveness of such transactions is delayed as a result of litigation or otherwise or does not occur, this may have an adverse effect on the ability to realize synergies and cost reductions and on the market value of Linde plc shares.

Following completion of the business combination, Linde AG will be an indirect subsidiary of Linde plc and, thus, a dependent company within the meaning of Section 17 of the German Stock Corporation Act. The legal framework for this dependency between Linde plc and Linde AG is, subject to other applicable law, set forth in Sections 311et seq.of the German Stock Corporation Act, which may prevent or impede the realization of synergies and cost reductions absent certain post-closing reorganization transactions, which may include a domination agreement or a cash merger squeeze-out under German law. If the effectiveness of such transactions is delayed as a result of litigation or otherwise or does not occur, Linde plc may be unable to initiate any transactions or measures that are disadvantageous to Linde AG, unless Linde plc provides adequate compensation to Linde AG, which may preclude Linde plc from implementing certain transactions related to the integration of Linde into the combined group, including realizing synergies. The failure to realize synergies may lead to a decline of the market value of Linde plc shares.

Linde plc may experience a loss of customers or may fail to win new customers in certain countries.

Following the completion of the business combination, third parties with whom Praxair or Linde had relationships prior to the announcement of the business combination may terminate or otherwise reduce the scope of their relationship with either party in anticipation or after the completion of the business combination. In addition, the combined group may face difficulties to acquire new customers in certain countries. Any such loss of business or the inability to win new customers could limit the combined group’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the business combination. Such risks could also be exacerbated by a delay in the settlement of the exchange offer and the business combination.

Linde plc may be unable to retain and motivate Praxair and/or Linde personnel successfully.









A change in Linde plc’s tax residency could have a negative effect on Linde plc’s future profitability, and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges.

Linde plc intends to continue to manage its affairs so that it is centrally managed and controlled in, and effectively managed from, the United Kingdom and therefore has its tax residency only in the United Kingdom. However, we cannot assure you that Linde plc is or will continue to be resident only in the United Kingdom for tax purposes.

Under current Irish legislation, an Irish incorporated company will be considered Irish tax resident except where it is tax resident in a territory with which Ireland has a double tax treaty, under the terms of the double tax treaty. Under current U.K. legislation, a company that is centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom is regarded as resident in the United Kingdom for taxation purposes unless it is treated as resident in another jurisdiction pursuant to any appropriate double tax treaty with the United Kingdom. Other jurisdictions may also seek to assert taxing jurisdiction over Linde plc. For example, a company is subject to German taxation on its worldwide income if it has either its registered seat or place of effective management and control in Germany. This is a question of fact and needs to be determined on an overall assessment of the actual circumstances. Where a company is treated as tax resident under the domestic laws of both the United Kingdom and Ireland, article 4(3) of the Double Tax Convention between Ireland and the United Kingdom (the “residence tie-breaker”) currently provides that the company shall be treated as resident only in one of those two jurisdictions if its place of effective management is situated there. A similar situation would exist if Linde plc was treated as a tax resident under the domestic laws of both the United Kingdom and Germany, or of Ireland and Germany.

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has proposed a number of measures relating to the tax treatment of multinationals, some of which are to be implemented by amending double tax treaties through a multilateral instrument (“MLI”). The MLI has been signed by a number of countries, including Germany, Ireland and the United Kingdom. The MLI allows signatories to opt into or out of certain changes: the effect for a given double tax convention depends on the options chosen by the two contracting states. Ireland and the United Kingdom have indicated they intend to change the residence tie-breaker so that it will depend on a ruling by the “competent authorities” (that is, the tax authorities) of the two contracting states, instead of an objective application of the place of effective management test. Accordingly, if Ireland and the United Kingdom maintain their position and enough countries ratify the MLI, the residence tie-breaker would be amended to depend on a determination by Irish Revenue Commissioners and HM Revenue and Customs. It is not certain when this will take place nor what factors will be taken into account in making the determination, but Linde plc does not expect such a determination to alter its tax residency.

The relevant criteria for Linde plc’s treatment as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes may not be met, or the IRS may not agree with the conclusion that Linde plc should be treated as such.

Although Linde plc is incorporated in Ireland, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) may assert that Linde plc should be treated as a U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a U.S. tax resident) for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). Further, changes to Section 7874 of the Code or the U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, could affect Linde plc’s status as a foreign corporation.

For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a corporation is generally considered a U.S. “domestic” corporation (or U.S. tax resident) if it is organized in the United States, and a corporation is generally considered a “foreign” corporation (or non-U.S. tax resident) if it is not a U.S. domestic corporation. Because Linde plc is an entity incorporated in Ireland, it would generally be classified as a foreign corporation (or non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. However, Code Section 7874 provides an









exception under which a foreign incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes.

Unless Linde plc has satisfied the substantial business activities exception, as defined in Section 7874 and described in more detail below (the “Substantial Business Activities Exception”), Linde plc would be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation (

i.e.

The Section 7874 Percentage is currently expected to be less than 60%. However, the calculation of the Section 7874 Percentage is complex, is calculated based on the facts as of the effective time of the merger, is subject to detailed regulations (the application of which is uncertain in various respects and would be impacted by changes in such regulations) and is subject to factual uncertainties (including fluctuations in the value of Praxair shares, and therefore in the value of Linde plc shares, as of the effective time of the merger). As a result, the IRS could assert that the Section 7874 Percentage is greater than or equal to 60% and that Linde plc therefore is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a U.S. domestic corporation (i.e., as a U.S. tax resident). If the IRS successfully challenges Linde plc’s status as a foreign corporation, significant adverse tax consequences would result for Linde plc, the combined group and for certain of Linde plc’s stockholders.

Linde plc is not currently expected to be treated as a domestic corporation, but it is possible that changes in U.S. federal income tax law could alter that result.

Transfers of Linde plc ordinary shares may be subject to Irish stamp duty.

For the majority of transfers of Linde plc shares, there will not be any Irish stamp duty. However, Irish stamp duty will become payable in respect of certain share transfers occurring after completion of the business combination. A transfer of Linde plc shares from a seller who holds shares beneficially (i.e.through DTC or Clearstream) to a buyer who holds the acquired shares beneficially will not be subject to Irish stamp duty (unless the transfer involves a change in the nominee that is the record holder of the transferred shares). A transfer of Linde plc shares by a seller who holds shares directly (i.e.not through DTC or Clearstream) to any buyer, or by a seller who holds the shares beneficially to a buyer who holds the acquired shares directly, may be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the price paid or the market value of the shares acquired, if higher) payable by the buyer. A shareholder who directly holds shares may transfer those shares into his or her own broker account to be held through DTC/Clearstream (or vice versa) without giving rise to Irish stamp duty provided that the shareholder has confirmed to Linde plc’s transfer agent that there is no change in the ultimate beneficial ownership of the shares as a result of the transfer and the transfer is not in contemplation of a sale of the shares.

Because of the potential Irish stamp duty on transfers of Linde plc shares, directly registered Praxair shareholders may face disadvantages if they do not open broker accounts and do not transfer their shares into such accounts as soon as possible, and in any event prior to completion of the business combination. Any person who wishes to acquire Linde plc shares after completion of the business combination may face disadvantages if they do not acquire such shares through DTC or Clearstream.

Changes in tax laws and policy could adversely impact Linde plc's financial position or results of operations.

Linde plc, Praxair and Linde are subject to the tax rules and regulations in the U.S., Germany, Ireland, the U.K. and other countries in which Linde plc, Praxair and Linde and their affiliates operate. Such tax rules and regulations are subject to change on a prospective or retroactive basis. Under current economic and political conditions, including the referendum in June 2016 in the U.K. in which voters approved an exit from the EU and the ongoing exit process, tax rates and policies in any jurisdiction, including the U.S., the U.K. and EU, are subject to significant change. In particular, since Linde plc is expected to be treated as U.K. tax resident, any potential changes in the tax rules applying to U.K. tax-resident companies would directly









affect Linde plc.

When tax rules change, this may result in a higher tax expense and the need to make higher tax payments. In addition, changes in tax legislation may have a significant impact on Linde plc’s, Praxair’s and Linde’s tax receivables and tax liabilities as well as on their deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Moreover, uncertainty about the tax environment in some regions may restrict Linde plc’s, Praxair’s or Linde’s opportunities to enforce their respective rights under the law. Companies in the combined group will also operate in countries with complex tax regulations which could be interpreted in different ways. Interpretations of these regulations or changes in the tax system might have an adverse impact on the tax liabilities, profitability and business operations of Praxair, Linde or the combined group. Linde plc, Praxair, Inc. and Linde AG and their respective subsidiaries are subject to periodic audits by the tax authorities in various jurisdictions or other review actions by the relevant financial or tax authorities. The ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in Linde plc’s, Praxair’s and Linde’s financial statements and may materially affect their respective financial results for the period when such determination is made.

In the current environment, the U.S. Congress, the European Union, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and other government agencies in jurisdictions where Linde plc and its affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations. One area of focus has been “base erosion and profit shifting,” including situations where payments are made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. However, the prospect of any reform with respect to these issues remains highly uncertain. Any such changes, among other possible changes in applicable tax rules and regulations, could affect the treatment of Linde plc, Praxair, Linde, or their respective affiliates or shareholders significantly. Additionally, on December 22, 2017, tax reform legislation was enacted in the United States. This legislation made significant changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code that are are highly complex and unclear and there is limited guidance regarding their application. The overall impact of this legislation also depends on the future interpretations and regulations that may be issued by U.S. tax authorities.

There has been no prior public market for Linde plc shares, and the market price of Linde plc shares may be volatile.

Linde plc will list the Linde plc shares on the NYSE and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. It is not expected, but cannot be entirely excluded that an active public market for Linde plc shares may not develop or be sustained after the completion of the business combination. Linde plc cannot predict the extent to which a trading market will develop or how liquid that market might become.

The market price of Linde plc shares may be volatile. Broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of Linde plc shares, regardless of Linde plc’s actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of Linde plc shares may include, among other things:

•actual or anticipated variations in operating results and the results of competitors;

•changes in financial estimates by Linde plc or by any securities analysts that might cover Linde plc shares;

•conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes;

•announcements by Linde plc or its competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures;

•announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of Linde plc’s operations or lawsuits filed against it;

•additions or departures of key personnel; and

•issues or sales of Linde plc shares, including sales of shares by its directors and officers or its strategic investors.



Shareholders of Linde plc may lose parts of or their entire investment, if the market price of Linde plc shares falls due to one or several of the described factors.

Any dividend paid in respect of Linde plc shares is subject to a number of factors, including the distributions of earnings to Linde plc by its subsidiaries, the financial condition and results of operations of the combined group, as well as the distributable reserves of Linde plc.

Although Linde plc currently expects to pay dividends, any dividend paid or changes to dividend policy are within the discretion of the board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including distributions of earnings to Linde plc by its subsidiaries, the financial condition and results of operations of the combined group, legal requirements, including limitations imposed by Irish law, terms of any outstanding shares of preferred stock, restrictions in any debt agreements that limit its ability to pay dividends to shareholders, restrictions in any series of preferred stock and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. As a holding company, Linde plc will conduct substantially all of its operations through its subsidiaries, such









Linde plc will not have distributable reserves immediately following completion of the business combination. Until such time as Linde plc creates distributable reserves through dividends from its subsidiaries, the creation of distributable reserves of Linde plc (by reducing its share premium) requires the approval of the Irish High Court and, in connection with seeking such court approval, the approval of Praxair shareholders on a non-binding advisory basis was obtained at the special meeting of shareholders of Praxair, Inc. and approval on a non-binding advisory basis is provided by the Linde AG shareholders as part of the offer acceptance to allow for the creation of distributable reserves of Linde plc. Linde plc is not aware of any reason why the Irish High Court would not approve the creation of distributable reserves, however, the issuance of the required order is a matter for the discretion of the Irish High Court. In the event that distributable reserves of Linde plc are not created in this way, distributions by way of dividends, share repurchases or otherwise will generally not be permitted under Irish law until such time as the group has created sufficient distributable reserves in the audited statutory financial statements of Linde plc as a result of its business activities.

The rights of the shareholders of Linde plc and the responsibilities of members of Linde plc's board of directors will be governed by Irish law and the Linde plc constitution, which will differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under Delaware or German law and the current organizational documents of Praxair, Inc. and Linde AG.

Following the completion of the business combination, Linde plc’s corporate affairs will be governed by the Linde plc constitution and the laws governing companies incorporated in Ireland. The rights of Linde plc shareholders and the responsibilities of members of the Linde plc board of directors under the laws of Ireland will differ from the rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of a company’s board of directors under the laws of Delaware and the supervisory board and executive board of a company under German law.

Irish law significantly limits the circumstances under which shareholders in Irish companies may bring derivative actions and does not afford appraisal rights to dissenting shareholders in the form available under certain circumstances to shareholders of a U.S. company.

Praxair shareholders and Linde AG shareholders will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the business combination and will exercise less influence over management of the combined group.

After the completion of the business combination, Praxair shareholders and Linde AG shareholders will own a smaller percentage of Linde plc than they currently own of Praxair, Inc. and Linde AG, respectively, because ownership in Linde plc shares will be allocated between Praxair and Linde AG shareholders in accordance with the exchange ratios set forth in the business combination agreement. Consequently, Praxair shareholders, as a group, will have reduced ownership and voting power in the combined group compared to their current ownership and voting power in Praxair, Inc., and Linde AG shareholders, as a group, will have reduced ownership and voting power in the combined group compared to their current ownership and voting power in Linde AG and each, as a group, could exercise less influence over the management and policies of the combined group than they currently have over the management and policies of Praxair and Linde, respectively.









Linde plc shareholders could be diluted in the future if Linde plc increases its issued share capital because of the dis-application of statutory preemption rights. In addition, shareholders in certain jurisdictions, including the United States, may not be able to exercise their pre-emption rights even if those rights have not been dis-applied.

As a matter of Irish law, holders of Linde plc shares will have a pre-emption right with respect to any issuance of Linde plc shares for cash consideration or the granting of rights to subscribe for Linde plc shares for cash consideration, unless such pre-emption right is dis-applied, in whole or in part, either in the Linde plc constitution or by resolution of the shareholders of Linde plc at a general meeting of shareholders or otherwise. It is intended that the Linde plc constitution that will be in effect upon the completion of the business combination will dis-apply the statutory pre-emption rights to the maximum extent permitted by Irish law,

i.e.

U.S. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against Linde plc.

Linde plc is organized under the laws of Ireland and substantial portions of its assets will be located outside of the United States. In addition, certain members of the board of directors of Linde plc (the “Linde plc board of directors”) reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon Linde plc or such other persons, or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws.

A judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the United States would not be automatically enforceable in Ireland. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland:

(i)the judgment must be for a definite sum;

(ii)the judgment must be final and conclusive; and

(iii)the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction.

An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment (a) was obtained by fraud; (b) violated Irish public policy; (c) is in breach of natural justice; or (d) if the judgment is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment.

Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against Linde plc, any member of its board of directors, the Linde AG supervisory board or executive board, or the Praxair, Inc. board of directors, or any officer of such companies, or any expert named herein who is a resident of a country other than the United States, any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters, including judgments under the U.S. federal securities laws.

In addition, there is doubt as to whether an Irish court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability on Linde plc, any member of its board of directors, or any officer who is a resident of a country other than the United States, in an original action predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in Ireland against Linde plc or such director or officer, respectively.













