Item 1. Business

Robert Half International Inc. (the “Company”) provides specialized staffing and risk consulting services through such divisions asAccountemps®, Robert Half®Finance & Accounting, OfficeTeam®, Robert Half®Technology, Robert Half®Management Resources, Robert Half®Legal, The Creative Group®,andProtiviti®. The Company, through itsAccountemps, Robert Half Finance & Accounting, andRobert Half Management Resourcesdivisions, is the world’s largest specialized provider of temporary, full-time, and project professionals in the fields of accounting and finance.OfficeTeamspecializes in highly skilled temporary administrative support personnel.Robert Half Technologyprovides information technology professionals.Robert Half Legalprovides temporary, project, and full-time staffing of attorneys and specialized support personnel within law firms and corporate legal departments.The Creative Groupprovides project staffing in the interactive media, design, and marketing fields.Protiviti, which began operations in 2002, is a global business consulting and internal audit firm.Protiviti, which primarily employs professionals specializing in risk, advisory and transactional services, is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.

The Company’s business was originally founded in 1948. Prior to 1986, the Company was primarily a franchisor, under the namesAccountempsandRobert Half(now calledRobert Half Finance & Accounting), of offices providing temporary and full-time professionals in the fields of accounting and finance. Beginning in 1986, the Company and its current management embarked on a strategy of acquiring franchised locations. All of the franchises have been acquired. The Company believes that direct ownership of offices allows it to better monitor and protect the image of its tradenames, promotes a more consistent and higher level of quality and service throughout its network of offices and improves profitability by centralizing many of its administrative functions. Since 1986, the Company has significantly expanded operations at many of the acquired locations, opened many new locations and acquired other local or regional providers of specialized temporary service personnel. The Company has also expanded the scope of its services by launching the new product linesOfficeTeam,Robert Half Technology,Robert Half Management Resources,Robert Half LegalandThe Creative Group.

In 2002, the Company hired more than 700 professionals who had been affiliated with the internal audit and business and technology risk consulting practice of Arthur Andersen LLP, including more than 50 individuals who had been partners of that firm. These professionals formed the base of the Company’s Protiviti Inc. subsidiary.Protiviti®has enabled the Company to enter the market for business consulting and internal audit services, which market the Company believes offers synergies with its traditional lines of business.

Accountemps

TheAccountempstemporary services division offers customers a reliable and economical means of dealing with uneven or peak workloads for accounting, finance, and bookkeeping personnel caused by such predictable events as vacations, taking inventories, tax work, month-end activities and special projects, and such unpredictable events as illness and emergencies. Businesses view the use of temporary employees as a means of controlling personnel costs and converting such costs from fixed to variable. The cost and inconvenience to clients of hiring and firing regular employees are eliminated by the use ofAccountempstemporaries. The temporary workers are employees ofAccountempsand are paid byAccountemps. The customer pays a fixed rate only for hours worked.

Accountempsclients may fill their regular employment needs by using anAccountempsemployee on a trial basis and, if so desired, “converting” the temporary position to a regular position. The client typically pays a one-time fee for such conversions.

OfficeTeam

The Company’sOfficeTeamdivision, which commenced operations in 1991, places temporary and full-time office and administrative personnel, ranging from executive and administrative assistants to receptionists and customer service representatives.OfficeTeamoperates in much the same fashion as theAccountempsdivision.

Robert Half Finance & Accounting

Established in 1948, the Company’s first division and specialized recruitment pioneerRobert Half Finance & Accountingspecializes in the placement of full-time accounting, financial, tax and accounting operations personnel. Fees for successful










placements are paid only by the employer and are generally a percentage of the new employee’s annual compensation. No fee for placement services is charged to employment candidates.

Robert Half Technology

The Company’sRobert Half Technologydivision, which commenced operations in 1994, specializes in providing information technology contract consultants and placing full-time employees in areas ranging from multiple platform systems integration to end-user support, including specialists in web development, networking, application development, systems integration, database design, security and business continuity, and desktop support.

Robert Half Legal

Since 1992, the Company has been placing temporary and full-time employees in attorney, paralegal, legal administrative and legal secretarial positions through itsRobert Half Legaldivision. The legal profession’s requirements (the need for confidentiality, accuracy and reliability, a strong drive toward cost-effectiveness, and frequent peak caseload periods) are similar to the demands of the clients of theAccountempsdivision.Robert Half Legaloffers a full suite of legal staffing and consulting services to help organizations manage constantly changing workloads and access expertise across in-demand legal practice areas.

Robert Half Management Resources

The Company’sRobert Half Management Resourcesdivision, which commenced operations in 1997, specializes in providing senior level project professionals in the accounting and finance fields, including chief financial officers, controllers, senior financial analysts, internal auditors, and business systems analysts for such tasks as financial systems conversions, expansion into new markets, business process reengineering, business systems performance improvement, and post-merger financial consolidation.

The Creative Group

The Creative Groupdivision commenced operations in 1999 and specializes in identifying for its clients creative professionals in the areas of interactive media, design, marketing, advertising and public relations. The division places freelance and project consultants in a variety of positions such as creative directors, graphics designers, web content developers, web designers, media buyers, brand managers, and public relations specialists.

Protiviti

Protivitiis a global consulting firm that helps companies solve problems in finance, technology, operations, governance, risk and internal audit. Through its risk management and internal audit heritage,Protivitihas gained unique perspectives on the challenges faced by its clients.Protivitiuses these perspectives not only to solve regulatory, risk and compliance problems, but also to help clients become more effective and productive.Protivitiprovides solutions to its clients in areas such as business performance improvement, internal audit and financial advisory, IT consulting, restructuring and litigation, risk and compliance, and transaction services.

Marketing and Recruiting










Protivitimarkets its business consulting and internal audit services to a variety of clients in a range of industries. Industry and competency teams conduct targeted marketing efforts, both locally and nationally, including print advertising and branded speaking events, with support fromProtivitimanagement. National advertising conducted byProtiviticonsists primarily of print advertisements in national newspapers, magazines and selected trade journals.Protivitihas programs to share its insights with clients on current corporate governance and risk management issues. It conducts public relations activities, such as distributing press releases, white papers, case studies and newsletters, designed to enhance recognition for theProtivitibrand, establish its expertise in key issues surrounding its business and promote its services.Protivitiplans to expand both the services and value added content on theProtiviti.comwebsite and increase traffic through targeted Internet advertising. Local employees are encouraged to be active in relevant social media communities, civic organizations and industry trade groups.

The Company and its subsidiaries own many trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including theRobert Half®Finance & Accounting, Accountemps®, OfficeTeam®, Robert Half®Technology, Robert Half®Management Resources, Robert Half®Legal, The Creative Group®andProtiviti®marks, which are registered in the United States and in a number of foreign countries.

Organization

Management of the Company’s staffing operations is coordinated from its headquarters facilities in Menlo Park and San Ramon, California. The Company’s headquarters provides support and centralized services to its offices in the administrative, marketing, public relations, accounting, training and legal areas, particularly as it relates to the standardization of the operating procedures of its offices. As ofDecember 31, 2016, the Company conducted its staffing services operations through 325 offices in 42 states, the District of Columbia and 17 foreign countries. Office managers are responsible for most activities of their offices, including sales, local advertising and marketing and recruitment.

The day-to-day operations ofProtivitiare managed by a chief executive officer and a senior management team with operational and administrative support provided by individuals located in San Ramon and Menlo Park, California. As ofDecember 31, 2016,Protivitihad 56 offices in 23 states and 11 foreign countries.

Competition

The Company’s staffing services face competition in attracting clients as well as skilled specialized employment candidates. The staffing business is highly competitive, with a number of firms offering services similar to those provided by the Company on a national, regional or local basis. In many areas the local companies are the strongest competitors. The most significant competitive factors in the staffing business are price and the reliability of service, both of which are often a function of the availability and quality of personnel. The Company believes it derives a competitive advantage from its long experience with and commitment to the specialized employment market, its national presence, and its various marketing activities.

Protivitifaces competition in its efforts to attract clients and win proposal presentations. The risk consulting and internal audit businesses are highly competitive. In addition, the changing regulatory environment is increasing opportunities for non-attestation audit and risk consulting services. The principal competitors ofProtivitiremain the “big four” accounting firms. Significant competitive factors include reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel.Protivitibelieves its competitive strengths lie in its unique ability to couple the deep skills and proven methodologies of its “big four” heritage with the customer focus and attention of a smaller organization.



Employees

The Company has approximately 16,400 full-time employees, including approximately 3,600 engaged directly in Protiviti operations. In addition, the Company placed approximately 215,000 temporary employees on assignments with clients during 2016. Employees placed by the Company on assignment with clients are the Company’s employees for all purposes while they are working on assignments. The Company pays the related costs of employment, such as workers’ compensation insurance, state and federal unemployment taxes, social security and certain fringe benefits. The Company provides access to voluntary health insurance coverage to interested temporary employees.

Other Information

The Company’s current business constitutes three business segments. (See Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for financial information about the Company’s segments.)

The Company is not dependent upon a single customer or a limited number of customers. The Company’s staffing services operations are generally more active in the first and fourth quarters of a calendar year.Protivitiis generally more active in the third and fourth quarters of a calendar year. Order backlog is not a material aspect of the Company’s staffing services










business. While backlog is of greater importance toProtiviti, the Company does not believe, based upon the length of time of the averageProtivitiengagement, that backlog is a material aspect of theProtivitibusiness. No material portion of the Company’s business is subject to government contracts.

Information about foreign operations is contained in Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. The Company does not have export sales.

Available Information

The Company’s Internet address iswww.roberthalf.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, proxy statements for its annual meetings of stockholders, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as is reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the Company’s website are its Corporate Governance Guidelines, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee, each of which is available in print to any stockholder who makes a request to Robert Half International Inc., 2884 Sand Hill Road, Menlo Park, CA 94025, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the Code of Ethics required by Item 406 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K. The Company intends to satisfy any disclosure obligations under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any amendment or waiver relating to its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on its website.



