ITEM 1.Business.

Whirlpool Corporation, the world’s leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as the successor to a business that traces its origin to 1898. Whirlpool manufactures
products in 12 countries under 13 principal brand names and markets products in nearly every country around the world. Whirlpool’s geographic segments consist of North America, Europe, Latin America, and Asia. As of December 31, 2009, we
had approximately 67,000 employees.

As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, “Whirlpool,”
“we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Products and Markets

Whirlpool manufactures and markets a full line of major appliances and related products,
primarily for home use. Our principal products are laundry appliances, refrigerators, cooking appliances, dishwashers, mixers and other small household appliances. We also produce hermetic compressors for refrigeration systems.

For each class of products which accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales over the last three years, the following table
lists the total net sales of each class.



Percent in2009Year ended December 31 (millions of dollars)Class of Similar Products200920082007Home Laundry Appliances31%$5,345$5,760$5,678Home Refrigerators and Freezers30%5,2005,8255,833Home Cooking Appliances17%2,8093,1282,995Other22%3,7454,1944,902Net Sales100%$17,099$18,907$19,408

In North America, Whirlpool markets and distributes
major home appliances and portable appliances under a variety of brand names. In the United States, we market and distribute products primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Jenn-Air,Roper,Estate,Admiral,Magic Chef,Amana, andInglisbrand names primarily to retailers, distributors, and builders. In Canada, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theInglis,Admiral,Whirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,Magic Chef,Amana,Roper,Estate,andKitchenAidbrand names. In Mexico, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,Acros,KitchenAid, andSupermaticbrand names. We sell some products to other manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for resale in North America under those manufacturers’ and
retailers’ respective brand names. We have manufacturing facilities in the United States and Mexico.

Whirlpool is a
major supplier to Sears of laundry, refrigerator, dishwasher, and trash compactor home appliances. Sears markets some of the products that we supply to them under itsKenmorebrand name. Sears is also a major outlet for ourWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid, Jenn-Air,andAmanabrand products. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, approximately 10%, 11% and 12%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales were attributable to sales to Sears. More information regarding
Whirlpool’s relationship with Sears can be found under the caption “Forward-Looking Perspective” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” contained in the Financial Supplement to this Report.

In Europe, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,Amana,Bauknecht,Ignis,Laden, andPolarbrand names, and major and portable appliances under theKitchenAidbrand name. In addition to our extensive operations in Western Europe, we have sales subsidiaries in






Russia, Ukraine, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Croatia, Morocco, and Turkey, with representative offices in Ukraine,
Kazakhstan, Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro. Whirlpool markets a full line of products under theWhirlpool,KIC,andIgnisbrand names in South Africa.

Whirlpool’s European operations also sell products carrying theWhirlpool,Bauknecht,andIgnisbrand names to
distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East. Whirlpool has manufacturing facilities in France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Slovakia, South Africa, and Sweden.

In Latin America, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Brastemp,Consul, andEslabon de Lujobrand names. We manage appliance sales and distribution in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, and Peru through our Brazilian subsidiary, and in Bolivia, Paraguay, and Uruguay through our distributors. We manage appliance sales and distribution in Central
American countries, the Caribbean, Venezuela, Colombia, Guatemala, and Ecuador through our Brazilian subsidiary and through distributors. In Latin America, Whirlpool has manufacturing facilities in Brazil.

In Asia, we have organized the marketing and distribution of our major home appliances into five operating groups: (1) China, which
includes mainland China; (2) Hong Kong and Taiwan; (3) India, which includes Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, and Pakistan; (4) Oceania, which includes Australia, New Zealand, and Pacific Islands; and (5) Southeast Asia, which
includes Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines, Korea, and Japan. We market and sell our products in Asia primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Amana,andJenn-Airbrand
names by a combination of direct sales to appliance retailers and chain stores and through full-service distributors to a large network of retail stores. In Asia, we have manufacturing facilities in China and India.

Competition

Other Information

We are generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials or purchased
components essential to our business. In areas where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment. Some unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning
to a new supplier if a prior single supplier relationship was abruptly interrupted or terminated. There has been continued cost pressure in some areas, such as metals and oil-based materials, during most of the year. In the later part of the year,
costs in most of these areas started to show signs of relief, but remain at elevated levels. We believe such raw materials and components will be available in adequate quantities to meet anticipated production schedules.






The patents we presently own are considered, in the aggregate, to be valuable. Also,
Whirlpool is the owner of a number of trademarks in the U.S. and foreign countries. The most important trademarks that we own in North America areWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Estate,Roper,Admiral,Amana,Jenn-Air, andAcros. The most important trademarks that we own in Europe areWhirlpool,Bauknecht,andIgnis. In Latin America, the most important trademarks that we own areWhirlpool,Brastemp,andConsul. The most important trademark that we own in Asia isWhirlpool. We receive royalties from licensing our trademarks to third parties to sell and service certain products bearing theWhirlpool, Maytag,
KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Admiral, Amana,andMagic Chefbrand names.

Expenditures for Whirlpool-sponsored research
and development relating to new products and the improvement of existing products were approximately $455 million in 2009, $436 million in 2008, and $421 million in 2007.

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits
with regard to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. Our policy is to comply with all such laws and regulations. Where laws and regulations are less restrictive, we have established and are following our own standards
consistent with our commitment to environmental responsibility.

We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects
with all presently applicable federal, state, local, and other governmental provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries in which we have manufacturing operations. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations has not
had a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position. Capital expenditures and expenses for manufacturing operations directly attributable to compliance with these environmental provisions worldwide amounted to
approximately $29 million in 2009, $31 million in 2008 and $28 million in 2007. We estimate that in 2010, environmental capital expenditures and expenses for manufacturing operations will be approximately $29 million. Capital expenditures and
expenses for product related environmental activities were not material in any of the past three years and are not expected to be material in 2010.

The entire major home appliance industry, including Whirlpool, must contend with the adoption of stricter governmental energy and environmental standards. These standards will be phased in over the next
several years and include the general phase-out of ozone depleting chemicals used in refrigeration, energy standards rulemakings for selected major appliances, regulatory restrictions on the materials content specified for use in our products by
some jurisdictions, and mandated recycling of our products at the end of their useful lives. Compliance with these various standards, as they become effective, will require some product redesign. However, we believe, based on our understanding of
the current state of proposed regulations, that we will be able to develop, manufacture, and market products that comply with these regulations.

State and federal environmental protection agencies have notified us of our possible involvement in a number of “Superfund” sites in the United States. However, based upon our evaluation of the
facts and circumstances relating to these sites along with the evaluation of our technical consultants, we do not presently anticipate any material adverse effect upon our earnings, financial condition, or competitive position arising out of the
resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters.

For information about the challenges and risks associated with our foreign operations, see “Risks Relating to Our Business” under Item 1A below.

For certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Financial Supplement to
this report.






For information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our
operating segments, see Notes 10 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Financial Supplement to this report.

For information on product recalls, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Financial Supplement to this report.

Maytag Acquisition

On March 31, 2006, we completed our acquisition
of Maytag. The aggregate purchase price for Maytag was approximately $1.9 billion, including approximately $848 million of cash and approximately 9.7 million shares of Whirlpool common stock. Maytag had consolidated net sales for the year ended
December 31, 2005 of approximately $4.9 billion. With the acquisition, Whirlpool added an array of home appliance brands includingMaytag, Jenn-Air, Amana, Magic Chef,andAdmiral. We are realizing cost savings from all areas
across the value chain including product manufacturing and marketing, global procurement, logistics, infrastructure and support areas, product research and development, and asset utilization. In 2007, we completed the sale of all Maytag adjacent
businesses which were not part of the core appliance business.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on February 10, 2010, the positions and offices they held
on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:



NameOfficeFirst Becamean ExecutiveOfficerAgeJeff M. FettigDirector, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer199452Michael A. TodmanDirector and President, Whirlpool International200152Marc R. BitzerPresident, Whirlpool North America200645Bracken DarrellExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Europe200947Jose A. DrummondExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool S.A.200845David T. SzczupakExecutive Vice President, Global Product Organization200854Roy W. TemplinExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer200449

Each of the executive
officers named above was elected to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2010 and until his successor is chosen and qualified or until his earlier resignation
or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for Mr. Szczupak and
Mr. Darrell. Prior to joining Whirlpool in July of 2008, Mr. Szczupak for the previous two years served as Chief Operating Officer of Dura Automotive Systems, Inc. and before joining Dura in 2006, worked for Ford Motor Company for 22 years
in various leadership roles. Mr. Darrell, prior to joining Whirlpool in September 2008, for the previous six years held various executive positions with The Procter & Gamble Company, the most recent being President of Braun, a
Procter & Gamble division.






Available Information

Financial results and investor information (including Whirlpool’s Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at Whirlpool’s
website:www.whirlpoolcorp.com—click on “Investors” and then click on “SEC Filings.” Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports, as well as amendments to them, are available free of charge through our website on
the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

