ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Whirlpool Corporation ("Whirlpool"), the number one major appliance manufacturer in the world, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as the successor to a business that traces its origin to 1898. Whirlpool manufactures products in14countries and markets products in nearly every country around the world under brand names such asWhirlpool,KitchenAid,Maytag,Consul,Brastemp,Amana,Bauknecht,Jenn-Air, Indesit, and Hotpoint*.Whirlpool’s reportable segments consist of North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), Latin America and Asia.As ofDecember 31, 2016, Whirlpool had approximately93,000employees.

As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, “Whirlpool,” “the Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Products and Regions

Whirlpool manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances and related products. Our principal products are laundry appliances, refrigerators and freezers, cooking appliances, dishwashers, mixers and other small domestic appliances. We also produce hermetic compressors for refrigeration systems.

The following table provides the percentage of net sales for each class of products which accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales over the last three years:

201620152014Laundry Appliances28%29%27%Refrigerators and Freezers28%28%28%Cooking Appliances18%18%18%Other26%25%27%Net Sales100%100%100%

In North America, Whirlpool markets and distributes major home appliances and small domestic appliances under a variety of brand names. In the United States, we market and distribute products primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Jenn-Air,Amana,Roper,Admiral,AffreshandGladiatorbrand names primarily to retailers, distributors and builders. In Canada, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theInglis,Admiral,Whirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,Amana,Roper,EstateandKitchenAidbrand names. In Mexico, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,Acros,KitchenAidandSupermaticbrand names. We sell some products to other manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for resale in North America under those manufacturers’ and retailers’ respective brand names.

In EMEA, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool, Bauknecht, Ignis, Maytag, Laden, Indesit and Privilegbrand names, and major and small domestic appliances under theKitchenAid, Hotpoint*,andHotpoint-Aristonbrand name. In addition to our operations in Western and Eastern Europe, Turkey and Russia, we have sales subsidiaries in Morocco and Dubai. We market and distribute a full line of products under theWhirlpoolandKICbrand names in South Africa. Our European operations also market and distribute products under theWhirlpool, Bauknecht, Maytag, AmanaandIgnisbrand names to distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East.

In Latin America, we market and distribute our major home appliances and small domestic appliances primarily under theConsul,Brastemp,WhirlpoolandKitchenAidbrand names. We manage sales and distribution through our local entities in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Guatemala. We also serve the countries of Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Venezuela, and certain Caribbean and Central America countries, where we manage appliances sales and distribution through our accredited distributors. Our Latin America operations also produce hermetic compressors for refrigeration systems.









*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas










In Asia, we have organized the marketing and distribution of our major home appliances and small domestic appliances into five operating groups: (1) mainland China; (2) Hong Kong and Taiwan; (3) India, which includes Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Pakistan; (4) Oceania, which includes Australia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands; and (5) Southeast Asia, which includes Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines, Korea, Myanmar and Japan. We market and distribute our products in Asia primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Amana,Bauknecht,Jenn-Air,Diqua, and Royalstarbrand names through a combination of direct sales to appliance retailers and chain stores and through full-service distributors to a large network of retail stores.

Competition

Competition in the major home appliance industry is intense, including competitors such as Arcelik, Bosch Siemens, Electrolux, Haier, Kenmore, LG, Mabe, Midea, Panasonic and Samsung, many of which are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprint. Moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. Competition in our business is based upon a wide variety of factors, including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution and financial incentives. These financial incentives include cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, salesperson incentives, volume rebates and terms. We believe that we can best compete in the current environment by focusing on introducing new and innovative products, building strong brands, enhancing trade customer and consumer value with our product and service offerings, expanding our regional footprint and trade distribution channels, increasing productivity, improving quality, lowering costs, and taking other efficiency-enhancing measures.

Raw Materials and Purchased Components

We are generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials or purchased components essential to our business. In areas where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment. Some supply disruptions and unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier if a prior single supplier relationship was abruptly interrupted or terminated. In the event of a disruption, we believe that we will be able to qualify and use alternate materials, sometimes at premium costs, and that such raw materials and components will be available in adequate quantities to meet forecasted production schedules.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

We consider the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets we own, and the licenses we hold, in the aggregate, to be a valuable asset. Whirlpool is the owner of a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries. The most important trademarks to North America areWhirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,KitchenAid,AmanaandAcros. The most important trademarks to Latin America areConsul,Brastemp,WhirlpoolandKitchenAid. The most important trademarks to EMEA areWhirlpool,KitchenAid, Bauknecht, Indesit, Hotpoint*, Hotpoint-AristonandIgnis. The most important trademarks to Asia areWhirlpool, Royalstar and Diqua. We receive royalties from licensing our trademarks to third parties to manufacture, sell and service certain products bearing theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid,andAmanabrand names. We continually apply for and obtain United States and foreign patents. The primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect our designs and technologies.

Research and Development

Expenditures for research and development relating to new and innovative products and the improvement of existing products were approximately $604 million,$579 millionand$563 millionin2016,2015and2014, respectively.

Protection of the Environment

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits with regard to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. Our policy is to comply with all such laws and regulations. Where laws and regulations are less restrictive, we have established and are following our own standards, consistent with our commitment to environmental responsibility.







*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas










We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with presently applicable governmental provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries in which we have manufacturing operations. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations did not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position during2016and is not expected to be material in2017.

The entire major home appliance industry, including Whirlpool, must contend with the adoption of stricter governmental energy and environmental standards. These standards were phased-in over the past several years and include the general phase-out of ozone-depleting chemicals used in refrigeration, and energy standards for selected major appliances, regulatory restrictions on the materials content specified for use in our products by some jurisdictions and mandated recycling of our products at the end of their useful lives. Compliance with these various standards, as they become effective, will require some product redesign. However, we believe, based on our understanding of the current state of proposed regulations, that we will be able to develop, manufacture, and market products that comply with these regulations.

Whirlpool participates in environmental assessments and cleanup at a number of locations globally.  These include operating and non-operating facilities, previously owned properties and waste sites, including "Superfund" (under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA)) sites. However, based upon our evaluation of the facts and circumstances relating to these sites along with the evaluation of our technical consultants, we do not presently anticipate any material adverse effect upon our earnings, financial condition, or competitive position arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters.

Acquisitions

Whirlpool China

OnOctober 24, 2014, Whirlpool's wholly-owned subsidiary, Whirlpool (China) Investment Co., Ltd., completed its acquisition of a51%equity stake in Hefei Rongshida Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd. ("Hefei Sanyo"), a joint stock company whose shares are listed and traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange, which we have since renamed to Whirlpool (China) Co., Ltd. ("Whirlpool China"). The aggregate purchase price for the transaction was RMB3.4 billion(approximately$551 millionat the date of purchase for each step of the transaction) net of cash acquired.

IndesitCompany S.p.A.

OnDecember 3, 2014, Whirlpool completed the final step in its acquisition of Indesit Company S.p.A. ("Indesit") and on the same day Indesit delisted from the Electronic Stock Market organized and managed by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. Total consideration paid for Indesit was€1.1 billion(approximately$1.4 billionat the dates of purchase of each step in the transaction) in aggregate net of cash acquired.

Further discussion of these transactions can be found in the Financial Condition and Liquidity section of Management's Discussion and Analysis.

Other Information

For information about the challenges and risks associated with our foreign operations, see “Risks Factors” under Item 1A.

For certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Note13to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see Note10to the Consolidated Financial Statements.










Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers onFebruary 13, 2017, the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:

NameOfficeFirst Becamean ExecutiveOfficerAgeJeff M. FettigDirector, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer199459Marc R. BitzerDirector, President and Chief Operating Officer200652Esther Berrozpe GalindoExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool EMEA201347João C. BregaExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Latin America201253Joseph T. LiotineExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool North America201444James W. PetersExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer201647David T. SzczupakExecutive Vice President, Global Product Organization200861

The executive officers named above were elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in2017and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years.

Available Information

Financial results and investor information (including Whirlpool’s Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at Whirlpool’s website:investors.whirlpoolcorp.com. Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.










