ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

Whirlpool Corporation, the world’s leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as the successor to a business that traces its origin to 1898. Whirlpool manufactures products in11countries and markets products in nearly every country around the world under brand names such asWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, Amana, Bauknecht, BrastempandConsul. Whirlpool’s geographic segments consist of North America, Latin America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia. As ofDecember 31, 2012, Whirlpool had approximately68,000employees.

As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, “Whirlpool,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Products and Markets

Whirlpool manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances and related products. Our principal products are laundry appliances, refrigerators and freezers, cooking appliances, dishwashers, mixers and other portable household appliances. We also produce hermetic compressors for refrigeration systems.

The following table provides the percentage of net sales for each class of products which accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales over the last three years:

201220112010Laundry Appliances30%30%30%Refrigerators and Freezers30%30%31%Cooking Appliances17%17%16%Other23%23%23%Net Sales100%100%100%

In North America, Whirlpool markets and distributes major home appliances and portable appliances under a variety of brand names. In the United States, we market and distribute products primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Jenn-Air,Amana, Roper, Estate,AdmiralandGladiatorbrand names primarily to retailers, distributors and builders. In Canada, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theInglis,Admiral,Whirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,Amana,Roper,EstateandKitchenAidbrand names. In Mexico, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,Acros,KitchenAidandSupermaticbrand names. We sell some products to other manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for resale in North America under those manufacturers’ and retailers’ respective brand names.

In Latin America, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theConsul, Brastemp, Whirlpool,KitchenAid, MaytagandEslabón de Lujobrand names. We manage appliance sales and distribution in Brazil, Argentina, Chile and Peru through our Brazilian subsidiary, and in Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay through our distributors. We manage appliance sales and distribution in the Caribbean, Central American countries, Venezuela, Colombia, Guatemala and Ecuador through our Brazilian subsidiary and through distributors.

In EMEA, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Bauknecht,Ignis,Maytag, Laden,PolarandPrivilegbrand names, and major and portable appliances under theKitchenAidbrand name. In addition to our operations in Western Europe, we have sales subsidiaries in Russia, Ukraine, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Croatia, Morocco and Turkey, with representative offices in Kazakhstan, Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro. We market and distribute a full line of products under theWhirlpool,KICandIgnisbrand names in South Africa. Our European operations also market and distribute products under theWhirlpool,BauknechtandIgnisbrand names to distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East.

In Asia, we have organized the marketing and distribution of our major home appliances into five operating groups: (1) mainland China (2) Hong Kong and Taiwan; (3) India, which includes Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Pakistan; (4) Oceania, which includes Australia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands; and (5) Southeast Asia, which includes Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines, Korea, Myanmar and Japan. We market and distribute our products in Asia primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,AmanaandJenn-Airbrand names through a combination of direct sales to appliance retailers and chain stores and full-service distributors to a large network of retail stores.










Competition

Competition in the major home appliance industry is intense, including competitors such as Bosch Siemens, Electrolux, General Electric, Haier, Kenmore, LG ,Mabeand Samsung. Moreover, the United States customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. Competition in our markets is based upon a wide variety of factors, including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution and financial incentives. These financial incentives include cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, salesperson incentives, volume rebates and terms. We believe that we can best compete in the current environment by focusing on introducing new and innovative products, building strong brands, enhancing trade customer and consumer value with our product offerings, continuing to expand our global footprint, expanding trade distribution channels, increasing productivity, improving quality, lowering costs, and taking other efficiency-enhancing measures.

Raw Materials and Purchased Components

We are generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials or purchased components essential to our business. In areas where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment. Some unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier if a prior single supplier relationship was abruptly interrupted or terminated. Cost pressure has been experienced during2012in some areas, such as base metals and plastic resins. Supply constraints due to environment impacts such as hurricanes and floods have required the qualification and use of alternate materials, some of which were at premium costs.  We believe such raw materials and components will be available in adequate quantities to meet forecast production schedules.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

We consider the trademarks, licenses and patents we own in the aggregate to be a valuable asset. Whirlpool is the owner of a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries. The most important trademarks to North America areWhirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,KitchenAid,Amana,andAcros. The most important trademarks to EMEA areWhirlpool,BauknechtandIgnis. In Latin America, the most important trademarks areConsul,Brastemp,WhirlpoolandKitchenAid. The most important trademark to Asia isWhirlpool. We receive royalties from licensing our trademarks to third parties to sell and service certain products bearing theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air,andAmanabrand names. We continually apply for and obtain United States and foreign patents. The primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect our designs and technologies.

Research and Development

Expenditures for research and development relating to new and innovative products and the improvement of existing products were approximately$553 million,$578 millionand$532 millionin2012,2011and2010, respectively.

Protection of the Environment

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits with regard to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. Our policy is to comply with all such laws and regulations. Where laws and regulations are less restrictive, we have established and are following our own standards consistent with our commitment to environmental responsibility.

We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with presently applicable governmental provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries that we have manufacturing operations. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations has not had a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position during 2012 and are not expected to be material in 2013.

The entire major home appliance industry, including Whirlpool, must contend with the adoption of stricter governmental energy and environmental standards. These standards will be phased in over the next several years and include the general phase-out of ozone depleting chemicals used in refrigeration, energy standards rulemakings for selected major appliances, regulatory restrictions on the materials content specified for use in our products by some jurisdictions, and mandated recycling of our products at the end of their useful lives. Compliance with these various standards, as they become effective, will require some product redesign. However, we believe, based on our understanding of the current state of proposed regulations, that we will be able to develop, manufacture, and market products that comply with these regulations.

State and federal environmental protection agencies have notified us of our possible involvement in a number of “Superfund” sites in the United States. However, based upon our evaluation of the facts and circumstances relating to these sites along with the evaluation of our technical consultants, we do not presently anticipate any material adverse effect upon our earnings, financial condition, or competitive position arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters.










Other Information

For information about the challenges and risks associated with our foreign operations, see “Risks Relating to Our Business” under Item 1A below.

For certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Note13to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see Note10to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For information on product recalls, see Note6to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on February 8, 2013, the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:

NameOfficeFirst Becamean ExecutiveOfficerAgeJeff M. FettigDirector, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer199455Michael A. TodmanDirector and President, Whirlpool International200155Marc R. BitzerPresident, Whirlpool North America200648Jose A. DrummondPresident, Whirlpool EMEA and Executive Vice President of Whirlpool Corporation200848João C. BregaExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Latin America201249David T. SzczupakExecutive Vice President, Global Product Organization200857Larry M. VenturelliExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer201252

Each of the executive officers named above was elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2013 and until his successor is chosen and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for Mr. Szczupak. Prior to joining Whirlpool in July 2008, Mr. Szczupak for the previous two years served as Chief Operating Officer of Dura Automotive Systems, Inc., and before joining Dura in 2006, worked for Ford Motor Company for 22 years in various leadership roles.

Available Information

Financial results and investor information (including Whirlpool’s Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at Whirlpool’s website:www.whirlpoolcorp.com— click on “Investors” and then click on “SEC Filings.” Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.












