ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our CompanyMore than 100 years of delivering value one moment at a time



Whirlpool Corporation ("Whirlpool"), the world's leading major home appliance company, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware and was founded in 1911. Whirlpool manufactures products in13countries and markets products in nearly every country around the world. We have received worldwide recognition for accomplishments in a variety of business and social efforts, including leadership, diversity, innovative product design, business ethics, social responsibility and community involvement.We conduct our business through four operating segments, which we define based on geography. Whirlpool Corporation's operating and reportable segments consist of North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), Latin America and Asia.Whirlpool had approximately$20 billionin annual sales and approximately 77,000 employees in2019.



As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Whirlpool," "the Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The world's leading major home appliance company claim is based on most recently available publicly reported annual revenues among leading appliance manufacturers.

Our Strategic Architecture

Our strategic architecture is the foundational component that drives our shareholder value creation. Below are the key components of our strategic architecture.



Unique Global Position

Whirlpool Corporation is committed to delivering significant, long-term value to both our consumers and our shareholders. For consumers, we deliver value through innovative, high-quality products that solve everyday problems. For our shareholders, we seek to deliver differentiated value through our four strategic pillars: global leading scale, best brand portfolio, proven track record of innovation and best cost position.










Global Leading ScaleBest BrandPortfolioProven Track Record of  InnovationBest CostPosition

Global Leading Scale

We are the world's leading major home appliance company.

Our leading position includes a balance of developed countries and emerging markets. As demand recovers in key emerging markets, we believe we are well positioned to benefit and convert this demand into profitable growth.

Best Brand Portfolio

We have the best brand portfolio in the industry, including six brands with more than $1 billion in revenue.



We aim to position these desirable brands across many consumer segments. Our sales are led by our global brands, includingWhirlpoolandKitchenAid.Whirlpoolis trusted throughout the world as a brand that delivers innovative care daily. OurKitchenAidbrand brings a combination of innovation and design that inspires and fuels the passion of chefs, bakers and kitchen enthusiasts worldwide. These two brands are the backbone of our strategy to offer differentiated products that provide exceptional performance and desirable features while remaining affordable to consumers.

We also have a number of strong regional and local brands, includingMaytag, Brastemp, Consul, Hotpoint*, Indesit,andBauknecht. These brands add to our unmatched depth and breadth of appliance offerings and help us provide products that are tailored to local consumer needs and preferences.

Proven Track Record of Innovation



Whirlpool Corporation has been responsible for a number of first-to-market innovations. These include the first electric wringer washer in 1911, the first residential stand mixer in 1919, the first countertop microwave in 1967 and the first energy and water efficient top-load washer in 1998. We are proud of our legacy of innovation.

While we are proud of that legacy, we are also committed to innovating for a new generation of consumers. Our world-class innovation pipeline has accelerated over the last few years, driven by consistent innovation funding and a










passionate culture of employees focused on bringing new technologies to market. This year, we launched more than 100 new products throughout the world, and we are committed to further accelerating our pace of innovation.



As the shift to digital continues, consumers are beginning to desire connected appliances which fit seamlessly into the larger home ecosystem. We are excited to bring new connected products and technologies to market, including scan-to-cook and remote service diagnostics. Whether developed internally or with one of our many collaborators, we believe these digitally-enabled products and services will increasingly enhance the appliance experience for our consumers.

Whirlpool manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances and related products. Our principal products are laundry appliances, refrigerators and freezers, cooking appliances, dishwashers, mixers and other small domestic appliances. Prior to the divestiture of our Embraco business on July 1, 2019, we also produced compressors for refrigeration systems. The following chart provides the percentage of net sales for each of our product categories which accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales over the last three years:





Best Cost Position

As the number one major appliance manufacturer in the world, we have a cost benefit on everything we do based on scale, and are committed to a relentless focus on cost efficiency. Our global scale enables our local-for-local production model. We are focused on producing as efficiently as possible and at scale throughout the world.

As the global environment continues to change, we believe our strong capabilities for cost takeout allow us to effectively cope with macroeconomic challenges, and we see additional opportunities to further streamline our cost structure. For example, we are on a journey to reduce the complexity of our designs and product platforms. This initiative, among many others, will enable us to utilize increased modular production, improved scale in global procurement, and further streamline our day-to-day manufacturing operations.










We believe our cost position is clearly differentiated in the appliance industry and we are committed to even further improvement, creating strong levels of value for our shareholders, regardless of the external environment.

Value Creation Framework

Our long-term value creation framework is built upon the strong foundation we have in place: our industry-leading brand portfolio and robust product innovation pipeline, supported by our global operating platform and executed by our exceptional employees throughout the world. We measure these value-creation components by focusing on the following key metrics:

Profitable GrowthMargin ExpansionCash ConversionInnovation-fueled growth at or abovethe marketDrive cost and      price/mix to grow profitabilityAsset efficiency converts profitable growth to cash~3%~10%6%+Annual OrganicNet Sales GrowthEBIT MarginFCF as % of Net Sales

Capital Allocation Strategy

We take a balanced approach to capital allocation by focusing on the following key metrics:

Fund the BusinessTargetCapex / R&DCapex: ~3% of net salesR&D: ~3% of net salesMergers & AcquisitionsOpportunistic M&A with high ROIC threshold

Return to ShareholdersTargetDividends~30% of trailing 12-month ongoing net earningsShare RepurchaseContinue repurchasing at a moderate levelTargeted Capital StructureMaintain strong investment grade rating; Gross Debt/EBITDA of ~2.0 goal

We remain confident in our ability to effectively manage our business through macroeconomic volatility and expect to continue delivering long-term value for our shareholders.
































Regional Business Summary





North America•In the United States, we market and distribute major home appliances and small domestic appliances primarily under theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, JennAir, Amana, Roper, Admiral, AffreshandGladiatorbrand names primarily to retailers, distributors and builders.•In Canada, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theAdmiral, Whirlpool, Maytag, JennAir, Amana, Roper, Speed QueenandKitchenAidbrand names.•We sell some products to other manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for resale in North America under those manufacturers' and retailers' respective brand names.



Europe, Middle East and Africa(EMEA)•In Europe, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool, Hotpoint*, Bauknecht, Indesit, Ignis, Maytag, LadenandPrivilegbrand names. We also market major home appliances and small domestic appliances under theKitchenAidbrand name primarily to retailers and distributors.•We market and distribute products under theWhirlpool, Bauknecht, Maytag, Indesit, AmanaandIgnisbrand names to distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East; we exited our commercial operations in Turkey in the second quarter of 2019.•We also marketed and distributed a full line of products under theWhirlpoolandKICbrand names in South Africa until we completed the sale of our business andKICbrand in the third quarter of 2019.•In addition to our operations in Western and Eastern Europe, Turkey and Russia, we have a sales subsidiary in Morocco.



Latin America•In Latin America, we produce, market and distribute our major home appliances and small domestic appliances primarily under theConsul, Brastemp, Whirlpool,KitchenAidandAcrosbrand names primarily to retailers, distributors and directly to consumers.•We also serve the countries of Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Venezuela, and certain Caribbean and Central America countries, where we manage appliances sales and distribution through accredited distributors.•In July 2019, our Latin America operations sold our compressors business to a third party.



Asia•In Asia, we have organized the marketing and distribution of our major home appliances and small domestic appliances in multiple countries, primarily including China and India.•We market and distribute our products in Asia primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Ariston,Indesit,Bauknecht,Sanyo,Diqua, andRoyalstarbrand names through a combination of direct sales to appliance retailers and chain stores and through full-service distributors to a large network of retail stores. As our rights to use the Sanyo brand name expired in the fourth quarter of 2019 (with a limited right to sell existing inventories until the second quarter of 2020), we are facilitating brand transition with investment to drive Whirlpool brand awareness in China.



*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas.










Competition

Competition in the major home appliance industry is intense, including competitors such as Arcelik, BSH (Bosch), Electrolux, Haier, Kenmore, LG, Mabe, Midea, Panasonic and Samsung, many of which are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprint. The competitive environment includes the impact of a changing retail environment, including the shifting of consumer purchase practices towards e-commerce and other channels.  Moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices.  We believe that we can best compete in the current environment by focusing on introducing new and innovative products, building strong brands, enhancing trade customer and consumer value with our product and service offerings, optimizing our regional footprint and trade distribution channels, increasing productivity, improving quality, lowering costs, and taking other efficiency-enhancing measures.

Seasonality

The Company's quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including holiday-driven promotional periods. In each fiscal year, the Company's total revenue and operating margins are typically highest in the third and fourth quarter.

Raw Materials and Purchased Components

We are generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials or purchased components essential to our business. In areas where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment. Some supply disruptions and unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier if a prior single supplier relationship was abruptly interrupted or terminated. In the event of a disruption, we believe that we will be able to qualify and use alternate materials, sometimes at premium costs, and that such raw materials and components will be available in adequate quantities to meet forecasted production schedules.

Working Capital

In order to support business needs and customer requirements, the Company maintains adequate levels of working capital throughout the year using various inventory management techniques, including demand forecasting and planning. Please see the Financial Condition and Liquidity section of the “Management's Discussion and Analysis” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our working capital requirements and processes.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

We consider the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets we own, and the licenses we hold, in the aggregate, to be a valuable asset. Whirlpool is the owner of a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries.  The most important trademarks to North America areWhirlpool, Maytag, JennAir, KitchenAidandAmana.The most important trademarks to EMEA areWhirlpool, KitchenAid, Bauknecht, Indesit, Hotpoint*andIgnis.The most important trademarks to Latin America areConsul, Brastemp, Whirlpool,KitchenAidandAcros.  The most important trademarks to Asia areWhirlpoolandRoyalstar(which is licensed to us).We receive royalties from licensing our trademarks to third parties to manufacture, sell and service certain products bearing theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAidandAmanabrand names. We continually apply for and obtain patents globally. The primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect our designs, technologies, products and services.

Protection of the Environment

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits with regard to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. Our policy is to comply with all such laws and regulations. Where laws and regulations are less restrictive, we have established and are following our own standards, consistent with our commitment to environmental responsibility.





*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas.










We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with presently applicable governmental provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries in which we have manufacturing operations. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations did not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position during2019and is not expected to be material in2020.

The entire major home appliance industry, including Whirlpool, must contend with the adoption of stricter government energy and environmental standards. These standards have been and continue to be phased in over the past several years and include the general phase-out of ozone-depleting chemicals used in refrigeration, and energy and related standards for selected major appliances, regulatory restrictions on the materials content specified for use in our products by some jurisdictions and mandated recycling of our products at the end of their useful lives. Compliance with these various standards, as they become effective, will require some product redesign. However, we believe, based on our understanding of the current state of proposed regulations, that we will be able to develop, manufacture, and market products that comply with these regulations.

Whirlpool participates in environmental assessments and cleanup at a number of locations globally.  These include operating and non-operating facilities, previously owned properties and waste sites, including "Superfund" (under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA)) sites. However, based upon our evaluation of the facts and circumstances relating to these sites along with the evaluation of our technical consultants, we do not presently anticipate any material adverse effect on our financial statements arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters.

Other Information

For information about the challenges and risks associated with our foreign operations, see "Risk Factors" under Item 1A.

Whirlpool is a major supplier of laundry, refrigeration, cooking and dishwasher home appliances to Lowe's, a North American retailer. Net sales attributable to Lowe's in2019,2018and2017, were approximately 13%,12%and10%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. Lowe's also represented approximately14%of our consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31,2019.  The Company did not have any customer with accounts receivable of more than 10% of consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31,2018. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Information About Our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers onFebruary 11, 2020, the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:

NameOfficeFirst Becamean ExecutiveOfficerAgeMarc R. BitzerChairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer200655James W. PetersExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer201650João C. BregaExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Latin America201256Joseph T. LiotineExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool North America201447Gilles MorelExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Europe, Middle East & Africa201954Shengpo (Samuel) WuExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Asia201953

The executive officers named above were elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in2020and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for Mr. Wu and Mr. Morel.  Prior to joining Whirlpool in February 2017, Mr. Wu for the previous five years served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific, of Osram GmbH, and before










joining Osram in 2012, worked for Honeywell Process Solutions and General Electric in various leadership roles. Prior to joining Whirlpool in April 2019, Mr. Morel served for two years as CEO of Northern and Central Europe for Groupe Savencia. Prior to that, he worked for 27 years at Mars Inc. in various leadership positions, most recently as Regional President, Europe & Eurasia for Mars Chocolate.

Available Information

Financial results and investor information (including Whirlpool's Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at Whirlpool's website:investors.whirlpoolcorp.com. Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We routinely post important information for investors on our website, whirlpoolcorp.com, in the "Investors" section. We also intend to update the Hot Topics Q&A portion of this webpage as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investors section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our webpage is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this document.



