ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Our CompanyMore than 100 years of delivering value one moment at a time



Whirlpool Corporation ("Whirlpool"), the world's leading major home appliance company, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware and was founded in 1911. Whirlpool manufactures products in 14 countries and markets products in nearly every country around the world. We have received worldwide recognition for accomplishments in a variety of business and social efforts, including leadership, diversity, innovative product design, business ethics, social responsibility and community involvement.We conduct our business through four operating segments, which we define based on geography. Whirlpool's operating segments consist of North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), Latin America and Asia.Whirlpool had approximately$21 billionin annual sales and92,000employees in 2018.



As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Whirlpool," "the Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The world's leading major home appliance company claim is based on most recently available publicly reported annual revenues among leading appliance manufacturers.

Our Strategic Architecture

Our strategic architecture is the foundational component that drives our shareholder value creation. Below are the key components of our strategic architecture.



Unique Global Position

Whirlpool Corporation is committed to delivering significant, long-term value to both our consumers and our shareholders. For consumers, we deliver value through innovative, high-quality products that solve everyday problems. For our shareholders, we seek to deliver differentiated value through our four strategic pillars: global leading manufacturer, best brand portfolio, legacy of innovation and best cost position.












Global Leading ManufacturerBest BrandPortfolioLegacy of InnovationBest CostPosition

Global Leading Manufacturer

We are the world's leading major home appliance company.

Our leading position includes a balance of developed countries and emerging markets. As demand recovers in key emerging markets, we believe we are well positioned to benefit and convert this demand into profitable growth.

Best Brand Portfolio

We have the best brand portfolio in the industry, including six brands with more than $1 billion in revenue.



We aim to position these desirable brands across many consumer segments. Our sales are led by our global brands, includingWhirlpoolandKitchenAid.Whirlpoolis trusted throughout the world as a brand that delivers innovative care daily. OurKitchenAidbrand brings a combination of innovation and design that inspires and fuels the passion of chefs, bakers and kitchen enthusiasts worldwide. These two brands are the backbone of our strategy to offer differentiated products that provide exceptional performance and desirable features while remaining affordable to consumers.

We also have a number of strong regional and local brands, includingMaytag, Brastemp, Consul, Hotpoint*, Indesit,andBauknecht. These brands add to our unmatched depth and breadth of appliance offerings and help us provide products that are tailored to local consumer needs and preferences.

Legacy of Innovation



Whirlpool Corporation has been responsible for a number of first-to-market innovations. These include the first electric wringer washer in 1911, the first residential stand mixer in 1919, the first countertop microwave in 1967 and the first energy and water efficient top-load washer in 1998. We are proud of our legacy of innovation.



While we are proud of that legacy, we are also committed to innovating for a new generation of consumers. Our world-class innovation pipeline has accelerated over the last few years, driven by consistent innovation funding and a

*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas.










passionate culture of employees focused on bringing new technologies to market. This year, we launched more than 100 new products throughout the world, and we are committed to further accelerating our pace of innovation.



As the shift to digital continues, consumers are beginning to desire connected appliances which fit seamlessly into the larger home ecosystem. We are excited to bring new connected technologies to market, including scan-to-cook, voice control, and remote service diagnostics. Whether developed internally or with one of our many collaborators,  we believe these digitally-enabled services will increasingly enhance the appliance experience for our consumers.

Whirlpool manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances and related products. Our principal products are laundry appliances, refrigerators and freezers, cooking appliances, dishwashers, mixers and other small domestic appliances. We also produce hermetic compressors for refrigeration systems. The following chart provides the percentage of net sales for each of our product categories which accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales over the last three years:





Best Cost Position

As the number one major appliance manufacturer in the world, we have a cost benefit on everything we do based on scale, and are committed to a relentless focus on cost efficiency. Our global scale enables our local-for-local production model. We are focused on producing as efficiently as possible and at scale throughout the world.

As the global environment continues to change, we believe our strong capabilities for cost takeout allow us to effectively cope with macroeconomic challenges, and we see additional opportunities to further streamline our cost structure. For example, we are on a journey to reduce the complexity of our designs and product platforms. This initiative, among many others, will enable us to utilize increased modular production, improved scale in global procurement, and further streamline our day-to-day manufacturing operations.

We believe our cost position is clearly differentiated in the appliance industry and we are committed to even further improvement, creating strong levels of value for our shareholders, regardless of the external environment.










Value Creation Framework

Our long-term value creation framework is built upon the strong foundation we have in place: our industry-leading brand portfolio and robust product innovation pipeline, supported by our global operating platform and executed by our exceptional employees throughout the world. We measure these value-creation components by focusing on the following key metrics:

Profitable GrowthMargin ExpansionCash ConversionInnovation-fueled growth at or abovethe marketDrive cost and      price/mix to grow profitabilityAsset efficiency converts profitable growth to cash3-5%10%5-6%Annual OrganicNet Sales GrowthEBIT MarginFCF as % of Net Sales



Net SalesYoY ChangeNet Earnings (Loss) Available to Whirlpool(1)Ongoing EBIT Margin(1)Ongoing EBIT Margin YoY ChangeCash Provided by Operating Activities(1)Free Cash Flow(1)FCF as % of Net Sales2018$21.0B(1.0)%($183)M6.3%(0.1)%$1,229M$853M4.1%2017$21.3B2.6%$350M6.4%(0.9)%$1,264M$707M3.3%2016$20.7B(0.8)%$888M7.3%0.4%$1,203M$630M3.0%



(1) Net Earnings (Loss) Available to Whirlpool and Cash Provided by Operating Activities are the most comparable GAAP measures to Ongoing Earnings before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) Margin and Free Cash Flow, respectively, which are non-GAAP financial measures. For additional information and a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section in Management's Discussion and Analysis of this Form 10-K.

Capital Allocation Strategy

We take a balanced approach to capital allocation by focusing on the following key metrics:

Fund the BusinessTargetCapex / R&DCapex: 3%+ of net salesR&D: ~3% of net salesMergers & AcquisitionsExplore value-creating M&A to accelerate strategy

Return to ShareholdersTargetDividends25-30% of trailing 12-month ongoing net earningsShare RepurchaseContinued repurchasing opportunisticallyTargeted Capital StructureMaintain strong investment grade rating; target gross Debt/EBITDA of ~2.0

We remain confident in our ability to effectively manage our business through macroeconomic volatility and expect to continue delivering long-term value for our shareholders.




















Regional Business Summary





North America•In the United States, we market and distribute major home appliances and small domestic appliances primarily under theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, JennAir,  Amana, Roper, Admiral, AffreshandGladiatorbrand names primarily to retailers, distributors and builders.•In Canada, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theAdmiral, Whirlpool, Maytag, JennAir, Amana, Roper, Estate, Inglis, Speed QueenandKitchenAidbrand names.•We sell some products to other manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for resale in North America under those manufacturers' and retailers' respective brand names.



Europe, Middle East and Africa(EMEA)•In EMEA, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool, Hotpoint*, Bauknecht, Indesit, Ignis, Maytag, LadenandPrivilegbrand names. We also market major home appliances and small domestic appliances under theKitchenAidbrand name.•We market and distribute a full line of products under theWhirlpoolandKICbrand names in South Africa.  We also market and distribute products under theWhirlpool, Bauknecht, Maytag, Indesit, AmanaandIgnisbrand names to distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East.•In addition to our operations in Western and Eastern Europe, Turkey and Russia, we have a sales subsidiary in Morocco.



Latin America•In Latin America, we market and distribute our major home appliances and small domestic appliances primarily under theConsul, Brastemp, Whirlpool,KitchenAidandAcrosbrand names.•We manage sales and distribution through our local entities in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Guatemala.•We also serve the countries of Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Venezuela, and certain Caribbean and Central America countries, where we manage appliances sales and distribution through accredited distributors.•Our Latin America operations also produce hermetic compressors for refrigeration systems, which business is currently in the process of sale.



Asia•In Asia, we have organized the marketing and distribution of our major home appliances and small domestic appliances into five operating groups.•These five groups are: (1) mainland China; (2) Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea and Japan; (3) India, which includes Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Pakistan; (4) Oceania, which includes Australia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands; and (5) Southeast Asia, which includes Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines, and Myanmar.•We market and distribute our products in Asia primarily under theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Ariston, Indesit, Bauknecht, Sanyo, Diqua,andRoyalstarbrand names through a combination of direct sales to appliance retailers and chain stores and through full-service distributors to a large network of retail stores.



*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas.










Competition

Competition in the major home appliance industry is intense, including competitors such as Arcelik, Bosch Siemens, Electrolux, Haier, Kenmore, LG, Mabe, Midea, Panasonic and Samsung, many of which are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprint. The competitive environment includes the impact of a changing retail environment, including the shifting of consumer purchase practices towards e-commerce and other channels.  Moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices.  We believe that we can best compete in the current environment by focusing on introducing new and innovative products, building strong brands, enhancing trade customer and consumer value with our product and service offerings, optimizing our regional footprint and trade distribution channels, increasing productivity, improving quality, lowering costs, and taking other efficiency-enhancing measures.

Raw Materials and Purchased Components

We are generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials or purchased components essential to our business. In areas where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment. Some supply disruptions and unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier if a prior single supplier relationship was abruptly interrupted or terminated. In the event of a disruption, we believe that we will be able to qualify and use alternate materials, sometimes at premium costs, and that such raw materials and components will be available in adequate quantities to meet forecasted production schedules.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

We consider the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets we own, and the licenses we hold, in the aggregate, to be a valuable asset. Whirlpool is the owner of a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries.  The most important trademarks to North America areWhirlpool, Maytag, JennAir, KitchenAidandAmana. The most important trademarks to EMEA areWhirlpool, KitchenAid, Bauknecht, Indesit, Hotpoint*andIgnis.The most important trademarks to Latin America areConsul, Brastemp, Whirlpool,KitchenAidandAcros.  The most important trademarks to Asia areWhirlpoolandRoyalstar(which is licensed to us).We receive royalties from licensing our trademarks to third parties to manufacture, sell and service certain products bearing theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, AmanaandBauknechtbrand names. We continually apply for and obtain United States and foreign patents. The primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect our designs, technologies and products.

Protection of the Environment

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits with regard to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. Our policy is to comply with all such laws and regulations. Where laws and regulations are less restrictive, we have established and are following our own standards, consistent with our commitment to environmental responsibility.

We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with presently applicable governmental provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries in which we have manufacturing operations. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations did not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position during2018and is not expected to be material in2019.

The entire major home appliance industry, including Whirlpool, must contend with the adoption of stricter government energy and environmental standards. These standards have been and continue to be phased in over the past several years and include the general phase-out of ozone-depleting chemicals used in refrigeration, and energy and related standards for selected major appliances, regulatory restrictions on the materials content specified for use in our products by some jurisdictions and mandated recycling of our products at the end of their useful lives. Compliance with these various standards, as they become effective, will require some product redesign. However, we believe, based on our understanding of the current state of proposed regulations, that we will be able to develop, manufacture, and market products that comply with these regulations.

Whirlpool participates in environmental assessments and cleanup at a number of locations globally.  These include operating and non-operating facilities, previously owned properties and waste sites, including "Superfund" (under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA)) sites. However, based upon our

*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas.










evaluation of the facts and circumstances relating to these sites along with the evaluation of our technical consultants, we do not presently anticipate any material adverse effect on our financial statements arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters.

Other Information

For information about the challenges and risks associated with our foreign operations, see "Risk Factors" under Item 1A.

Whirlpool is a major supplier of laundry, refrigeration, cooking and dishwasher home appliances to Lowe's, a North American retailer. Net sales attributable to Lowe's in 2018, 2017 and 2016, were approximately 12%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. For certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Note15to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see Note13to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers onFebruary 12, 2019, the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:

NameOfficeFirst Becamean ExecutiveOfficerAgeMarc R. BitzerChairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer200654James W. PetersExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer201649João C. BregaExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Latin America201255Joseph T. LiotineExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool North America201446Shengpo (Samuel) WuExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Asia201952

The executive officers named above were elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in2019and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for Mr. Wu.  Prior to joining Whirlpool in February 2017, Mr. Wu for the previous  five years served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific, of Osram GmbH, and before joining Osram in 2012, worked for Honeywell Process Solutions and General Electric in various leadership roles.

Available Information

Financial results and investor information (including Whirlpool's Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at Whirlpool's website:investors.whirlpoolcorp.com. Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



