ITEM 1.BUSINESS.

Whirlpool Corporation, the world’s leading manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as the successor to a business that traces its
origin to 1898. Whirlpool manufactures products in 12 countries under 13 principal brand names and markets products in nearly every country around the world. Whirlpool’s geographic segments consist of North America, Latin America, Europe and
Asia. As of December 31, 2010, Whirlpool had approximately 71,000 employees.

As used herein, and except where the context
otherwise requires, “Whirlpool,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Products and Markets

Whirlpool manufactures and markets a full line of
major appliances and related products, primarily for home use. Our principal products are laundry appliances, refrigerators, cooking appliances, dishwashers, mixers and other small household appliances. We also produce hermetic compressors for
refrigeration systems.

The following table provides the total net sales for each class of products which accounted for 10% or
more of our consolidated net sales over the last three years:



Millions of dollars201020092008Laundry Appliances$5,43530%$5,34531%$5,76030%Refrigerators and Freezers5,61631%5,20030%5,82531%Cooking Appliances3,02516%2,80917%3,12817%Other4,29023%3,74522%4,19422%Net Sales$18,366100%$17,099100%$18,907100%

In North America, Whirlpool markets and distributes major home appliances and portable appliances under a
variety of brand names. In the United States, we market and distribute products primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Jenn-Air,Amana, Roper, Estate,AdmiralandGladiatorbrand names
primarily to retailers, distributors and builders. In Canada, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theInglis,Admiral,Whirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,Amana,Roper,EstateandKitchenAidbrand names. In Mexico, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,Acros,KitchenAidandSupermaticbrand names. We sell some products to
other manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for resale in North America under those manufacturers’ and retailers’ respective brand names.

Whirlpool is a major supplier of a wide range of home appliances to Lowe’s. Lowe’s is a major outlet for ourWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Roper and Gladiatorbrand products. Sales
activity with Lowe’s represented 10%, 9% and 8% of our consolidated net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

In
Latin America, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theConsul, Brastemp, Whirlpool,KitchenAid, MaytagandEslabón de Lujobrand names. We manage appliance sales and distribution in Brazil,
Argentina, Chile and Peru through our Brazilian subsidiary, and in Bolivia, Paraguay and Uruguay through our distributors. We manage appliance sales and distribution in the Caribbean, Central American countries, Venezuela, Colombia, Guatemala and
Ecuador through our Brazilian subsidiary and through distributors.

In Europe, we market and distribute our major home
appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Bauknecht,Ignis,Maytag, Laden,PolarandPrivilegbrand names, and major and portable appliances under theKitchenAid







brand name. In addition to our extensive operations in Western Europe, we have sales subsidiaries in Russia, Ukraine, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria,
Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania, Croatia, Morocco and Turkey, with representative offices in Kazakhstan, Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro. We market and distribute a full line of products under theWhirlpool,KICandIgnisbrand names
in South Africa. Our European operations also market and distribute products under theWhirlpool,BauknechtandIgnisbrand names to distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East.

In Asia, we have organized the marketing and distribution of our major home appliances into five operating groups: (1) China, which
includes mainland China; (2) Hong Kong and Taiwan; (3) India, which includes Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Pakistan; (4) Oceania, which includes Australia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands; and (5) Southeast Asia, which
includes Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines, Korea and Japan. We market and distribute our products in Asia primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,AmanaandJenn-Airbrand names through a combination of direct sales to appliance retailers and chain stores and full-service distributors to a large network of retail stores.

Competition

Competition in the home appliance industry is intense. In
addition to our traditional competitors Electrolux, General Electric and Kenmore, there are expanding foreign competitors such as LG, Bosch Siemens, Samsung and Haier. Moreover, the United States customer base is characterized by large,
sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive prices, products and services. In most major markets throughout the world, 2010 was a challenging year with continued high costs of metals and oil-based materials.
Competition in our markets is based upon a wide variety of factors, including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution and financial incentives. These financial incentives
include cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, salesperson incentives, volume rebates, and terms. We believe that we can best compete in the current environment by focusing on research and development including introducing new innovative
products, building strong brands, enhancing trade customer and consumer value with our product offerings, continuing to expand our global footprint, expanding trade distribution channels, increasing productivity, improving quality, lowering costs,
and taking other efficiency-enhancing measures.

Raw Materials and Purchased Components

We are generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials or purchased components essential to our business. In areas where a
single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment. Some unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier if a prior single supplier
relationship was abruptly interrupted or terminated. While we experienced cost pressure during 2010 in metals and oil-based materials, in some cases, driven by supply constraints that required the qualification and use of alternate materials at
premium cost, we believe such raw materials and components will be available in adequate quantities to meet anticipated future production schedules.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

We consider the trademarks, licenses and
patents we own in the aggregate to be a valuable asset. Whirlpool is the owner of a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries. The most important trademarks to North America areWhirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,KitchenAid,Amana, Estate,Roper,AdmiralandAcros. The most important trademarks to Europe areWhirlpool,BauknechtandIgnis. In Latin America, the most important trademarks
areConsul,BrastempandWhirlpool. The most important trademark to Asia isWhirlpool. We receive royalties from licensing our trademarks to third parties to sell and service certain products bearing theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Jenn-Air, AdmiralandAmanabrand names. We continually apply for and obtain United States and foreign patents. The primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect our designs and technologies.







Research and Development

Expenditures for research and development relating to new and innovative products and the improvement of existing products were approximately $516 million, $489 million and $463 million in 2010, 2009 and
2008, respectively.

Protection of the Environment

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits
with regard to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. Our policy is to comply with all such laws and regulations. Where laws and regulations are less restrictive, we have established and are following our own standards
consistent with our commitment to environmental responsibility.

We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects
with all presently applicable federal, state, local, and other governmental provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries that we have manufacturing operations. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations has not had
a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position. Capital expenditures and expenses for manufacturing operations directly attributable to compliance with these environmental provisions worldwide were approximately $31
million, $29 million and $31 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We estimate that in 2011, environmental capital expenditures and expenses for manufacturing operations will be approximately $34 million. Capital expenditures and expenses
for product related environmental activities were not material in any of the past three years and are not expected to be material in 2011.

The entire major home appliance industry, including Whirlpool, must contend with the adoption of stricter governmental energy and environmental standards. These standards will be phased in over the next
several years and include the general phase-out of ozone depleting chemicals used in refrigeration, energy standards rulemakings for selected major appliances, regulatory restrictions on the materials content specified for use in our products by
some jurisdictions, and mandated recycling of our products at the end of their useful lives. Compliance with these various standards, as they become effective, will require some product redesign. However, we believe, based on our understanding of
the current state of proposed regulations, that we will be able to develop, manufacture, and market products that comply with these regulations.

State and federal environmental protection agencies have notified us of our possible involvement in a number of “Superfund” sites in the United States. However, based upon our evaluation of the
facts and circumstances relating to these sites along with the evaluation of our technical consultants, we do not presently anticipate any material adverse effect upon our earnings, financial condition, or competitive position arising out of the
resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters.

Maytag Acquisition

On
March 31, 2006, we completed our acquisition of Maytag. The aggregate purchase price for Maytag was approximately $1.9 billion, including approximately $848 million of cash and approximately 9.7 million shares of Whirlpool common stock.
Maytag had consolidated net sales for 2005 of approximately $4.9 billion. With the acquisition, Whirlpool added an array of home appliance brands includingMaytag, Jenn-Air, AmanaandAdmiral. We have realized cost savings from all
areas across the value chain including product manufacturing and marketing, global procurement, logistics, infrastructure and support areas, product research and development, and asset utilization. In 2007, we completed the sale of all Maytag
adjacent businesses which were not part of the core appliance business.

Other Information

For information about the challenges and risks associated with our foreign operations, see “Risks Relating to Our Business”
under Item 1A below.







For certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and
domestic operations, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For information on our global restructuring plans,
and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see Notes 10 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For
information on product recalls, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on February 9, 2011, the positions and offices they held
on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:



NameOfficeFirst Becamean
ExecutiveOfficerAgeJeff M. FettigDirector, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer199453Michael A. TodmanDirector and President, Whirlpool International200153Marc R. BitzerPresident, Whirlpool North America200646Bracken DarrellExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Europe200948Jose A. DrummondExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Latin America200846David T. SzczupakExecutive Vice President, Global Product Organization200855Roy W. TemplinExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer200450

Each of the executive
officers named above was elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2011 and until his successor is chosen and qualified or
until his earlier resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for
Mr. Szczupak and Mr. Darrell. Prior to joining Whirlpool in July of 2008, Mr. Szczupak for the previous two years served as Chief Operating Officer of Dura Automotive Systems, Inc., and before joining Dura in 2006, worked for Ford
Motor Company for 22 years in various leadership roles. Mr. Darrell, prior to joining Whirlpool in September 2008, for the previous six years held various executive positions with The Procter & Gamble Company, the most recent being
President of Braun, a Procter & Gamble division.

Available Information

Financial results and investor information (including Whirlpool’s Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at
Whirlpool’s website:www.whirlpoolcorp.com— click on “Investors” and then click on “SEC Filings.” Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our
website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.







