ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Whirlpool Corporation, the world’s leading global manufacturer and marketer of major home appliances, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware as the successor to a business that traces its origin to 1898. Whirlpool manufactures products in 14 countries and markets products in nearly every country around the world under brand names such asWhirlpool,KitchenAid,Maytag,Consul,Brastemp,Amana,Bauknecht,Jenn-AirandIndesit.Whirlpool’s reportable segments consist of North America, Latin America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia.As ofDecember 31, 2014, Whirlpool had approximately100,000employees.

As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, “Whirlpool,” "the Company," “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Products and Regions

Whirlpool manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances and related products. Our principal products are laundry appliances, refrigerators and freezers, cooking appliances, dishwashers, mixers and other portable household appliances. We also produce hermetic compressors for refrigeration systems.

The following table provides the percentage of net sales for each class of products which accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales over the last three years:

201420132012Laundry Appliances27%29%30%Refrigerators and Freezers28%29%30%Cooking Appliances18%18%17%Other27%24%23%Net Sales100%100%100%

In North America, Whirlpool markets and distributes major home appliances and portable appliances under a variety of brand names. In the United States, we market and distribute products primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Jenn-Air,Amana,Roper,Admiral,AffreshandGladiatorbrand names primarily to retailers, distributors and builders. In Canada, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theInglis,Admiral,Whirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,Amana,Roper,EstateandKitchenAidbrand names. In Mexico, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,Acros,KitchenAidandSupermaticbrand names. We sell some products to other manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for resale in North America under those manufacturers’ and retailers’ respective brand names.

In Latin America, we market and distribute our major and small home appliances primarily under theConsul,Brastemp,WhirlpoolandKitchenAidbrand names. We manage sales and distribution through our local entities in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia and Guatemala. We also serve the countries of Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Venezuela, the Caribbean and Central America countries, where we manage appliances sales and distribution through our accredited distributors.

In EMEA, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under theWhirlpool,Bauknecht,Ignis,Maytag,Laden,Indesit,Hotpoint(Whirlpool ownership of theHotpointbrand in EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with theHotpointbrand sold in the Americas),Hotpoint-AristonandPrivilegbrand names, and major and portable appliances under theKitchenAidbrand name. In addition to our operations in Western and Eastern Europe, Turkey and Russia, we have sales subsidiaries in Morocco and Dubai. We market and distribute a full line of products under theWhirlpool,KICandIgnisbrand names in South Africa. Our European operations also market and distribute products under theWhirlpool,BauknechtandIgnisbrand names to distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East. With the acquisition of Indesit Company S.p.A. ("Indesit"), we expect efficiencies in R&D, capital spending and value chain costs, as well as operational scale with increased volume and the ability to more effectively integrate our product platforms across a larger European market position.
















In Asia, we have organized the marketing and distribution of our major home appliances into five operating groups: (1) mainland China; (2) Hong Kong and Taiwan; (3) India, which includes Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Pakistan; (4) Oceania, which includes Australia, New Zealand and Pacific Islands; and (5) Southeast Asia, which includes Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Philippines, Korea, Myanmar and Japan. We market and distribute our products in Asia primarily under theWhirlpool,Maytag,KitchenAid,Amana,Bauknecht,Jenn-Air, andDiquabrand names through a combination of direct sales to appliance retailers and chain stores and through full-service distributors to a large network of retail stores. With the acquisition of Hefei Rongshida Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., or Hefei Sanyo, which we have since renamed Whirlpool China Co., Ltd., our operations in China now have expanded distribution to over 30,000 distribution points and significant capacity in a complementary low cost manufacturing base.

Competition

Competition in the major home appliance industry is intense, including competitors such as Arcelik, Bosch Siemens, Electrolux, General Electric, Panasonic, Haier, Kenmore, LG, Mabe and Samsung, many of which are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprint. Moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. Competition in our business is based upon a wide variety of factors, including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution and financial incentives. These financial incentives include cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, salesperson incentives, volume rebates and terms. We believe that we can best compete in the current environment by focusing on introducing new and innovative products, building strong brands, enhancing trade customer and consumer value with our product offerings, continuing to expand our regional footprint, expanding trade distribution channels, increasing productivity, improving quality, lowering costs, and taking other efficiency-enhancing measures.

Raw Materials and Purchased Components

We are generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials or purchased components essential to our business. In areas where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment. Some unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier if a prior single supplier relationship were abruptly interrupted or terminated. Supply constraints due to environmental impacts such as hurricanes and floods have required the qualification and use of alternate materials, some of which were at premium costs. We believe such raw materials and components will be available in adequate quantities to meet forecasted production schedules.

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

We consider the trademarks, licenses and patents we own, in the aggregate, to be a valuable asset. Whirlpool is the owner of a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries. The most important trademarks to North America areWhirlpool,Maytag,Jenn-Air,KitchenAid,AmanaandAcros. The most important trademarks to Latin America areConsul,Brastemp,WhirlpoolandKitchenAid. The most important trademarks to EMEA areWhirlpool,KitchenAid, Bauknecht, Indesit, Hotpoint(Whirlpool ownership of theHotpointbrand in EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with theHotpointbrand sold in the Americas), Hotpoint-AristonandIgnis. The most important trademarks to Asia areWhirlpool, Royalstar and Diqua. We receive royalties from licensing our trademarks to third parties to sell and service certain products bearing theWhirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid,andAmanabrand names. We continually apply for and obtain United States and foreign patents. The primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect our designs and technologies.

Research and Development

Expenditures for research and development relating to new and innovative products and the improvement of existing products were approximately$563 million,$582 millionand$553 millionin2014,2013and2012, respectively.

Protection of the Environment

Our manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect or enhance the environment, many of which require federal, state, or other governmental licenses and permits with regard to wastewater discharges, air emissions, and hazardous waste management. Our policy is to comply with all such laws and regulations. Where laws and regulations are less restrictive, we have established and are following our own standards, consistent with our commitment to environmental responsibility.










We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with presently applicable governmental provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries in which we have manufacturing operations. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations has not had a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position during2014and are not expected to be material in2015.

The entire major home appliance industry, including Whirlpool, must contend with the adoption of stricter governmental energy and environmental standards. These standards were phased-in over the past several years and include the general phase-out of ozone-depleting chemicals used in refrigeration, energy standards rulemakings for selected major appliances, regulatory restrictions on the materials content specified for use in our products by some jurisdictions and mandated recycling of our products at the end of their useful lives. Compliance with these various standards, as they become effective, will require some product redesign. However, we believe, based on our understanding of the current state of proposed regulations, that we will be able to develop, manufacture, and market products that comply with these regulations.

State and federal environmental protection agencies have notified us of our possible involvement in a number of “Superfund” sites in the United States. However, based upon our evaluation of the facts and circumstances relating to these sites along with the evaluation of our technical consultants, we do not presently anticipate any material adverse effect upon our earnings, financial condition, or competitive position arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters.

Other Information

For information about the challenges and risks associated with our foreign operations, see “Risks Relating to Our Business” under Item 1A.

For certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Note14to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see Note11to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Hefei SanyoAcquisition

OnAugust 12, 2013, Whirlpool's wholly-owned subsidiary, Whirlpool (China) Investment Co., Ltd., (“Whirlpool China”), reached agreements to acquire a51%equity stake in a leading home appliances manufacturer,Hefei Sanyo, a joint stock company whose shares are listed and traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange. This transaction was completed onOctober 24, 2014.Hefei Sanyohas been renamed to "Whirlpool China Co., Ltd." With this acquisition, Whirlpool adds an established and broad distribution network within the Chinese appliance market and reinforces our commitment to growth in this region. Whirlpool will gain manufacturing scale and a competitive cost structure in the city of Hefei and we believe we will realize strong synergies through our extensive technical, marketing and product development in combination withHefei Sanyo’s sales execution and operational strengths.

The aggregate purchase price was RMB3.4 billion(approximately$551 millionat the dates of purchase). The Company funded the total consideration for the shares with cash on hand. The cash paid for the private placement portion of the transaction is considered restricted cash, which will beused to fund capital and technical resources to enhance Hefei Sanyo’s research and development and working capital.Further discussion of this transaction can be found in Note2of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

IndesitAcquisition

OnDecember 3, 2014, Whirlpool purchased all remaining shares ofIndesit(aside from a minority interest that was purchased in the third quarter of 2014) andIndesitdelisted from the Electronic Stock Market organized and managed by Borsa Italiana S.p.A. Total consideration paid for Indesit was$1.4 billionin aggregate net of cash acquired. The Company funded the aggregate purchase price for the shares constituting a majority interest that we purchased in October 2014 through borrowings under our credit facility, and repaid a portion of such borrowings through the issuance of an aggregate principal amount of $650 million in senior notes on November 4, 2014. We funded the aggregate purchase price for the tender offer and remaining shares through borrowings under our credit facility and through borrowings under our commercial paper programs, and intend to repay such borrowings in the future through public debt financing.

This transaction builds Whirlpool’s market position within Europe, and we believe will enable sustainable growth given the complementary market positions, product offerings and distribution channels of Whirlpool andIndesitthroughout Europe. Further discussion of this transaction can be found in Note2of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.










Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on February 16, 2015, the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:

NameOfficeFirst Becamean ExecutiveOfficerAgeJeff M. FettigDirector, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer199457Michael A. TodmanDirector and Vice Chairman200157Marc R. BitzerVice Chairman200650Esther Berrozpe GalindoExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool EMEA201345João C. BregaExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Latin America201251Joseph T. LiotineExecutive Vice President and President, Whirlpool North America201442David T. SzczupakExecutive Vice President, Global Product Organization200859Larry M. VenturelliExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer201254

The executive officers named above were elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in2015and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years.

Available Information

Financial results and investor information (including Whirlpool’s Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at Whirlpool’s website:investors.whirlpoolcorp.com/sec.cfm. Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.












