ITEM 1A.—RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other
information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with evaluating the Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be
immaterial may also have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-
looking statements. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations — Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”





Risks Related to Our Business

Disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise
additional financing. Should general economic conditions not improve, if we are unable to obtain
sufficient funding or applicable government approvals such that completion of our suspended
projects is not probable, or should management decide to abandon certain projects, all or a
portion of our investment to date in our suspended projects could be lost.

Severe disruptions in the commercial credit markets in the last few years have resulted in a
tightening of credit markets worldwide. Liquidity in the global credit markets was severely
contracted by these market disruptions, making it difficult and costly to obtain new lines of
credit or to refinance existing debt. The effect of these disruptions was widespread and difficult
to quantify. While economic conditions have recently improved, that trend may not continue and the
extent of the current economic improvement is unknown. Any future disruptions in the commercial
credit markets may impact liquidity in the global credit market as greatly, or even more, than in
recent years.

Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a
result of downturns in the economy.

Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of
luxury amenities we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the
corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary
consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as perceived or actual
general economic conditions; the current housing crisis and the credit crisis; high energy, fuel
and food costs; the increased cost of travel; the potential for bank failures; the weakened job
market; perceived or actual disposable consumer income and wealth; fears of recession and changes
in consumer confidence in the economy; or fears of war and future acts of terrorism. These factors
could reduce consumer demand for the luxury amenities and leisure activities we offer, thus
imposing practical limits on pricing and harming our operations.

There are significant risks associated with our planned construction projects, which could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from these planned
facilities.

Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as our Cotai Strip projects, Sands
Bethlehem and the Las Vegas Condo Tower, entail significant risks. Construction activity requires
us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which may be uncertain.
Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events outside of our
control or, in certain cases, our contractors’ control, such as shortages of materials or skilled
labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather
interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction materials or
equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining any of the
requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental or
regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the construction
or opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and features. In
addition, the number of ongoing projects and their locations throughout the world present
unique challenges and risks to our management structure. If our management is unable to
successfully manage our worldwide construction projects, it could have an adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.





Historically, we have not entered into a fixed-price or guaranteed maximum price contract with
a single construction manager or general contractor. As a result, we rely heavily upon our in-house
development and construction team to coordinate the work of the various trade contractors and
manage construction costs, which put more of the risk of cost-overruns on us, but allows us greater
flexibility. If we are unable to manage costs or we are unable to raise capital required, we may
not be able to open or complete these projects, which may have an adverse impact on our business
and prospects for growth.

The anticipated costs and completion dates for our projects are based on budgets, designs,
development and construction documents and schedule estimates that we have prepared with the
assistance of architects and other construction development consultants and that are subject to
change as the design, development and construction documents are finalized and as actual
construction work is performed. A failure to complete our projects on budget or on schedule may
have an adverse effect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Due to the
suspension of certain of our development projects, the estimated costs to complete and open these
projects is currently not determinable and therefore may have an adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows. See also “— Risks Associated with Our
International Operations — We are required to build and open our Cotai Strip developments on parcel 3  by April 2013 and on parcels 5 and 6 by May 2014. Unless we meet these deadlines or
obtain extensions, we may lose our land concessions for parcel 3 or parcels 5 and 6, which would
prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land concessions.”

The failure to obtain the necessary financing, or satisfy these funding conditions, could have
an adverse effect on our ability to construct our development projects.

Because we are currently dependent primarily upon our properties in three markets for all of our
cash flow, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties or
that operates in more markets.

We currently do not have material operations other than our Las Vegas, Macau and Singapore
properties. As a result, we are primarily dependent upon these properties for all of our cash.

Given that our operations are currently conducted primarily at properties in Las Vegas, Macau
and Singapore and that a large portion of our planned future development is in Macau, we will be
subject to greater degrees of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or that
operates in more markets. The risks to which we will have a greater degree of exposure include the
following:

•local economic and competitive conditions;

•inaccessibility due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access
routes;

•decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or fears concerning air
travel;

•changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and
regulations;

•natural and other disasters, including the risk of typhoons in the South China region or
outbreaks of infectious diseases;

•changes in the availability of water; and

•a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas, Macau or Singapore.







Our substantial debt could impair our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We
will need to incur additional debt to finance our planned construction projects.

We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations. As of December 31,
2010, we had $10.14 billion of long-term debt outstanding. This substantial indebtedness could have
important consequences to us. For example, it could:

•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations;

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital
needs, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions or general corporate
purposes;

•require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the
payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for
our operations and development projects;

•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the
industry in which we operate;

•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt;
and

•subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates as a
significant portion of our debt is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest.

We expect that all of our current projects will be funded
with existing cash balances, cash
flows from operations and available borrowings from our existing credit facilities,
with the exception of those projects currently suspended. We cannot assure you that we will obtain
all the financing required for the construction and opening of our suspended projects on acceptable
terms, if at all.

The terms of our debt instruments may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our
ability to finance additional growth, respond to changes or take some actions that may otherwise
be in our best interests.

Our current debt instruments contain, and any future debt instruments likely will contain, a
number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us,
including restrictions on our ability to:

•incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit support;

•incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations;

•dispose of assets;

•make certain acquisitions;

•pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted payments, such as
purchasing equity interests, repurchasing junior indebtedness or making investments in third
parties;

•enter into sale and leaseback transactions;

•engage in any new businesses;

•issue preferred stock; and

•enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates.

In addition, our U.S., Macau and Singapore credit agreements contain various financial
covenants.
See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — Note 1 — Organization and Business of Company — Development Financing
Strategy” and
“Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements — Note
9 — Long-Term Debt” for further description of these covenants and the potential impact of
noncompliance.





Our indebtedness is secured by a substantial portion of our assets, except for our equity
interests in our subsidiaries.

Subject to applicable laws, including gaming laws, and certain agreed upon exceptions, our
debt is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, except for our equity interests in our
subsidiaries. In the event of a default under our financing agreements, or if we experience
insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the holders of our secured debt instruments
would first be entitled to payment from their collateral security, and only then would holders of
our unsecured debt and equity holders be entitled to payment from our remaining assets.

Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could
suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same
insurance coverage in the future.

Although we have all-risk property insurance for our operating properties covering damage
caused by a casualty loss (such as fire or natural disasters), each policy has certain exclusions.
In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than
the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of
insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty.
In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, loss of income due to
cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or
corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, might not be covered at all under our policies.
Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses.

We also have builder’s
risk insurance for our projects under construction in Macau, Singapore and Pennsylvania. Builder’s risk insurance provides coverage for projects during their construction for
damage caused by a casualty loss. In general, our builder’s risk coverage is subject to the same
exclusions, risks and deficiencies as those described above for our all-risk property coverage. Our
level of builder’s risk insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of
a major casualty.

In addition, although we currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of terrorist acts
with respect to our operating properties and for certain losses that could result from these acts,
our terrorism coverage is subject to the same risks and deficiencies as those described above for
our all-risk property coverage. The lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could
expose us to substantial losses in the event that any damages occur, directly or indirectly, as a
result of terrorist attacks or otherwise, which could have a significant negative impact on our
operations.

In addition to the damage caused to our operating properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer
business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or
harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this
insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event.

We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder’s risk insurance) on an annual basis.
The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or
agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that regional
political tensions, homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any change in
government legislation governing insurance coverage for acts of terrorism could materially
adversely effect available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on available
coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our policy limits), additional exclusions from
coverage or higher deductibles. Among other potential future adverse changes, in the future we may
elect to not, or may not be able to, obtain any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism.

Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum
level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under
these debt instruments or material agreements.





We depend on the continued services of key managers and employees. If we do not retain our key
personnel or attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer.

Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the
services of our senior management team, including Sheldon G. Adelson and our other executive
officers. Mr. Adelson, Michael A. Leven,
Robert G. Goldstein and Kenneth J. Kay have each entered into employment agreements with us;
however, we cannot assure you that any of our executive officers will remain with us. These
agreements are currently scheduled to expire in December 2011 for Messrs. Adelson and Kay, November
2012 for Mr. Leven and December 2012 for Mr. Goldstein. We currently do not have a life insurance
policy on any of the members of the senior management team. The death or loss of the services of
any of our senior managers or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management
personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business.

The interests of our principal stockholder in our business may be different from yours.

Mr. Adelson, his family members and trusts established for the benefit of Mr. Adelson and/or
his family members beneficially own (excluding unexercised warrants to purchase 87.5 million shares
of our common stock) approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2010.
Accordingly, Mr. Adelson exercises significant influence over our business policies and affairs,
including the composition of our Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of our
stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and the
approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership may
also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions
more difficult or impossible without the support of Mr. Adelson. The interests of Mr. Adelson may
conflict with your interests.

We are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our
subsidiaries.

We are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. Our main asset is the
capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct most of our business operations through our direct
and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions
with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and
cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient
earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our subsidiaries’ payments
to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition,
our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of
dividends or other distributions to us. We expect that future debt instruments for the financing of
our other developments, including our Cotai Strip developments, will contain similar restrictions.

Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. Acts of terrorism,
regional political events and developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause
severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting
in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. A substantial number of our
customers for The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo use air travel to come to Las Vegas. Acts of
terrorism may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease
in customer visits to Las Vegas, including our properties. Regional conflicts could have a similar
effect on domestic and international travel. Most of our customers travel to reach our Las Vegas,
Macau and Singapore properties. Only a small amount of our business is and will be generated by
local residents. Management cannot predict the extent to which disruptions in air or other forms of
travel as a result of any further terrorist act, outbreak of hostilities or escalation of war would
adversely effect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming
receivables from our credit players.

We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis. Any such credit we extend is
unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and
high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager lower
amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in win-loss
results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact on cash
flow and earnings in a particular quarter.

During the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 64.2%, 36.9% and 35.2% of our table
games drop at our Las Vegas properties, Macau properties and Marina Bay Sands, respectively, was
from credit-based wagering. We extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial
resources warrant, in the opinion of
management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant impact on
our results of operations if deemed uncollectible.





While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as
a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and
Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit
Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts
is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts
directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment,
judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations.

Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or applicable anti-money laundering regulation
could have a negative impact on us.

We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which
generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to
foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. On February 9, 2011, LVSC
received a subpoena from the SEC requesting that the Company produce documents relating to its
compliance with the FCPA. The Company has also been advised by the Department of Justice that it is
conducting a similar investigation. Any determination that we have violated the FCPA could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition.

We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various
reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or
regulations by any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

A failure to establish and protect our IP rights could have an adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We endeavor to establish and protect our IP rights and our goods and services through
trademarks and service marks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets, domain names, licenses, other
contractual provisions, employee nondisclosure agreements, and confidentiality and
information-security measures and procedures. Our failure to possess, obtain or maintain adequate
protection of our IP rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations. Examples of such a potential failure include: (1) if
one of our marks becomes so well known by the public that its use is deemed generic, we could lose
exclusive rights to such mark or be forced to rebrand; (2) if a third party claims we have
infringed, currently infringe, or could in the future infringe its IP rights, we
may need to cease use of such IP or take other steps; (3) if third parties violate their
obligations to us to maintain confidentiality of our proprietary information or there is a security
breach or lapse, our business may be affected; or (4) if third parties misappropriate or infringe
our IP, our business may be affected.

Conflicts of interest may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also directors
of SCL.

In November 2009, we completed the SCL Offering, wherein our subsidiary, SCL, listed its
ordinary shares on The Main Board of the SEHK. We currently own 70.3%
of the issued and outstanding
ordinary shares of SCL. As a result of SCL having stockholders who are not affiliated with us, we
and certain of our officers and directors who also serve as officers and/or directors of SCL may
have conflicting fiduciary obligations to our stockholders and to the minority stockholders of SCL.
Decisions that could have different implications for us and SCL, including contractual arrangements
that we have entered into or may in the future enter into with SCL may give rise to the appearance
of a potential conflict of interest.

Changes in tax laws and regulations could impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

We are subject to taxation and regulation by various government agencies, primarily in the U.S.
(federal, state and local levels), Singapore and Macau. From time to time, U.S. federal, state,
local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and the application thereof,
which could result in higher taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law or interpretation.
In particular, government agencies may make changes that could reduce the profits that we can effectively
realize from our non-U.S. operations. Like most U.S. companies, our effective tax rate reflects the fact
that income earned and reinvested outside the U.S. is taxed at local rates, which are often lower than U.S.
tax rates. If changes in tax laws and regulations were to significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S.
income, these changes could increase our income tax expense and liability, and therefore, have an adverse
effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition and results of operations.





Risks Associated with Our U.S. Operations

We face significant competition in Las Vegas, which could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, any significant downturn in
the trade show and convention business could have a significant and adverse effect on our mid-week
occupancy rates and business.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses in Las Vegas are highly competitive. We also compete,
to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and Atlantic City, as well as
hotel/casinos and other resort facilities and vacation destinations elsewhere in the United States
and around the world. Many of our competitors are subsidiaries or divisions of large public
companies and have substantial financial and other resources. In addition, various competitors on
the Las Vegas Strip periodically expand and/or renovate their existing facilities. If demand for
hotel rooms does not keep up with the increase in the number of hotel rooms, competitive pressures
may cause reductions in average room rates.

We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands,
including those located in California. While the competitive impact on our operations in Las Vegas
from the continued growth of Native American gaming establishments in California remains uncertain,
the proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in the same region as our Las
Vegas Operating Properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific
areas, including metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract customers. A number of
states have permitted or are considering permitting gaming at “racinos,” on Native American
reservations and through expansion of state lotteries. The current global trend toward
liberalization of gaming restrictions and resulting proliferation of gaming venues could result in
a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas facilities by attracting customers close to
home and away from Las Vegas, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

The Sands Expo Center provides recurring demand for mid-week room nights for business
travelers who attend meetings, trade shows and conventions in Las Vegas. The Sands Expo Center
presently competes with other large convention centers, including convention centers in Las Vegas
and other cities.  To the extent that these competitors are able to
capture a substantially larger portion of the trade show and convention business, there could be a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The loss of our gaming license or our failure to comply with the extensive regulations that govern
our operations in any jurisdiction where we operate could have an adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are subject to extensive regulation
by the Nevada Commission, the Nevada Board and the CCLGLB. The Nevada Gaming Authorities have broad
authority with respect to licensing and registration of our business entities and individuals
investing in or otherwise involved with us.

Although we currently are registered with, and LVSLLC and VCR currently hold gaming licenses
issued by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, these authorities may, among other things, revoke the
gaming license of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered corporation or any
entity registered as a holding company of a corporate licensee for violations of gaming
regulations.

In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may, under certain conditions, revoke the license
or finding of suitability of any officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder or
key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our gaming licenses were revoked for any
reason, the Nevada Gaming Authorities could require the closing of the casinos, which would have a
material adverse effect on our business. In addition, compliance costs associated with gaming laws,
regulations or licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable
to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could
otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.

A similar dynamic exists in all jurisdictions where we operate and a regulatory action against
one of our operating entities in any gaming jurisdiction could impact our operations in other
gaming jurisdictions where we do business. For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory
requirements that have an effect on our business, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and
Licensing.”





Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file an application with,
and be investigated by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and the Nevada Commission may restrict the
ability of a beneficial owner to receive any benefit from our voting securities and may require
the disposition of shares of our voting securities, if a beneficial owner is found to be
unsuitable.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our voting securities will be
required to apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after
the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. Under certain
circumstances, an “institutional investor” as defined under the regulations of the Nevada
Commission, which acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of our
voting securities (subject to certain additional holdings as a result of certain debt
restructurings or stock repurchase programs under the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada
Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability requirement if the institutional investor
holds our voting securities only for investment purposes. In addition, any beneficial owner of our
voting securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the
discretion of the Nevada Commission to file an application for a finding of suitability as such. In
either case, a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing and the applicant must pay all
costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting the investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within
thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Authorities may be found unsuitable.
The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify
the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any
beneficial ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such period of time as
may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to
disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or
to have any other relationship with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed
subsidiaries:

•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through
securities held by that person;

•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or

•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or
her voting securities including, if necessary, purchasing them for cash at fair market
value.

For a more complete description of the Nevada gaming regulatory requirements applicable to
beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing —
State of Nevada.”

Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file a license application
with, and be investigated by, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Police
and other agencies.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of our voting securities will be
required to apply to the PaGCB for licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure
requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by clear and convincing evidence the
applicant’s good character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that holds 5% or more of
our voting securities is required to be licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor,
trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain
circumstances and under the regulations of the PaGCB, an “institutional investor” as defined under
the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%,
of our voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the PaGCB provided the PaGCB grants
a waiver of the licensure requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities,
regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the
PaGCB to file an application for licensure.

Furthermore, a person or a group of persons acting in concert who acquire(s) more than 20% of
our securities, with the exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of original
licensure when the license fee was paid, would trigger a “change in control” (as defined under
applicable law). Such a change in control could require us to re-apply for licensure by the PaGCB
and incur a $50.0 million license fee.

In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified and is not found qualified,
the security holder may be required by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding
the cost of the interest.

For a more complete description of the Pennsylvania gaming regulatory requirements applicable
to beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing
— Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.”





If GGP (or any future owner of The Shoppes at The Palazzo or The Grand Canal Shoppes) breaches any
of its material agreements with us or if we are unable to maintain an acceptable working
relationship with GGP (or any future owner), there could be a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We have entered into agreements with GGP under which, among other things, GGP has agreed to
operate The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo subject to, and in accordance with,
the cooperation agreement. Our agreements with GGP could be adversely affected in ways that could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if
we do not maintain an acceptable working relationship with GGP or its successors. For example, the
cooperation agreement that governs the relationships between The Shoppes at The Palazzo and The
Palazzo and The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Venetian Las Vegas requires that the owners cooperate
in various ways and take various joint actions, which will be more difficult to accomplish,
especially in a cost-effective manner, if the parties do not have an acceptable working
relationship.

There could be similar material adverse consequences to us if GGP breaches any of its
agreements to us, such as its agreement under the cooperation agreement to operate The Grand Canal
Shoppes consistent with the standards of first-class restaurant and retail complexes and the
overall Venetian theme, and its various obligations as our landlord under the leases described
above. Although our agreements with GGP provide us with various remedies in the event of any
breaches by GGP and include various dispute resolution procedures and mechanisms, these remedies,
procedures and mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows if breaches by GGP occur or if we do not maintain an
acceptable working relationship with GGP.

The final purchase price on the sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo could have an adverse effect on
the results of operations or cash flows at our Las Vegas Operating Properties.

Pursuant to the Amended Agreement for the sale of The Shoppes at The Palazzo, a calculation
was to be performed during the third quarter of 2010 (on the 30-month anniversary of the closing
date) to determine whether additional amounts were owed to us. We and GGP have entered into several
additional amendments to the Amended Agreement to defer the time to reach agreement on the final
purchase price as both parties are continuing to work on various matters related to the calculation
of the net operating income of The Shoppes at The Palazzo during the measurement period. The final
calculation of the net operating income may be significantly less than expected at the time the
complex was sold to GGP and therefore the final purchase price may also be significantly less than
expected. (Some of the tenants at The Shoppes at The Palazzo whose sales have been less than
initially expected have asked for
temporary abatements in base rent, to which we and GGP have agreed.) We may be required to
record a loss on the sale in the future depending on the resolution of such matters and the
resulting agreed upon final purchase price.





Risks Associated with Our International Operations

Conducting business in Macau and Singapore has certain political and economic risks which may have
an effect on the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of our Asian operations.

Our operations in Macau include the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons
Macao. We plan to open and operate additional hotels, gaming areas and meeting space within the
Cotai Strip in Macau. We also own and operate the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. Accordingly, our
business development plans, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be
materially and adversely affected by significant political, social and economic developments in
Macau and Singapore, and by changes in policies of the governments or changes in laws and
regulations or their interpretations.  Our operations in Macau and Singapore are also exposed to the risk
of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies based in those countries.
Jurisdictional tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment or different
interpretation and implementation, thereby having an adverse effect on our profitability after tax.
These changes may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations
or cash flows.

As we expect a significant number of consumers to come to our Macau properties from mainland
China, general economic conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact on our
financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes to China’s current restrictions on
travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our
casinos in Macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in the casinos. See “— The
number of visitors to Macau, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to
Macau may be disrupted.”

Current Macau laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most
part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and
regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and operations are in compliance in all
material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macau. These laws and regulations are
complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an
interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, which differs from our
interpretation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows. As Marina Bay Sands is one of two gaming facilities in Singapore
following the government’s adoption of gaming legislation in 2005, the laws and regulations
relating to gaming and their interpretations are untested.

In addition, our activities in Macau and Singapore are subject to administrative review and
approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain all
necessary approvals, which may materially affect our long-term business strategy and operations.
Macau and Singapore laws permit redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions;
however, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues.

During December 2010, we received notice
from the Macau government that our application for a land concession for parcels 7 and 8 was not approved. If we do
not obtain the land concession or do
not receive full reimbursement of our capitalized investment in this project, we would record a charge for all or some portion of our investment in this site and would not be able to build or operate the
planned facilities on this site.

During December 2010, we received notice from the Macau government that our application for a
land concession for parcels 7 and 8 was not approved and we applied to the Chief Executive of Macau
for a review of the decision. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, we filed an appeal with the Court of
Second Instance in Macau, which has yet to issue a decision. Should we win our appeal, it is still
possible for the Chief Executive of Macau to again deny the land concession based upon public
policy considerations. If we do not obtain the land concession or do not receive full reimbursement
of our capitalized investment in this project, we would record a charge for all or some portion of the
$102.1 million in capitalized construction costs, as of December 31, 2010, related to our
development on parcels 7 and 8, and would not be able to build or operate the planned facilities on
this site.





We are required to build and open our
Cotai Strip developments on parcel 3  by April 2013
and on parcels 5 and 6 by May 2014. Unless we meet these deadlines or obtain extensions, we may
lose our land concessions for parcel 3 or parcels 5 and 6, which would prohibit us from operating
any facilities developed under such land concessions.

Our revised development plan may give certain of our hotel managers for our Cotai Strip
developments the right to terminate their agreements with us.

We have entered into agreements with Starwood and Shangri-La to manage hotels on our Cotai
Strip parcels 5 and 6 and for Starwood to brand the serviced luxury apart-hotel units located
thereon. The management agreements with Starwood and Shangri-La impose certain construction and
opening obligations and deadlines on us, and certain past and/or anticipated delays would allow
Starwood and Shangri-La to terminate their respective agreements. We recommenced construction on
parcels 5 and 6 and are negotiating (or undertaking to negotiate) amendments to the management
agreements with Starwood and Shangri-La to provide for new opening timelines. If negotiations are
unsuccessful and Starwood and Shangri-La exercise their rights to terminate their agreements, we
would have to find new managers and brands for these projects, and such measures could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our Macau subconcession can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us,
which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.

The Macau government has the right, after consultation with Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate
our subconcession in the event of VML’s serious non-compliance with its basic obligations under the
subconcession and applicable Macau laws. Upon termination of our subconcession, our casinos and
gaming-related equipment would automatically be transferred to the Macau government without
compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. The loss of
our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macau, which would have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.





Our Singapore concession can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us,
which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.

The Development Agreement between MBS and the STB contains events of default which could
permit the STB to terminate the agreement without compensation to us. If the Development Agreement
is terminated, we could lose our right to operate the Marina Bay Sands and our investment in Marina
Bay Sands could be lost.

For a more complete description of the Singapore gaming regulatory requirements applicable to
beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing —
Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board.”

We will stop generating any revenues from our Macau gaming operations if we cannot secure an
extension of our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macau government exercises its redemption right.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. Unless our subconcession is extended, on
that date, all of VML’s casino premises and gaming-related equipment will automatically
be transferred to the Macau government on that date without compensation to us and we will cease to
generate revenues from such gaming operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macau
government may redeem the subconcession agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice.
In the event the Macau government exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair
compensation or indemnity. The amount of such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on
the amount of gaming and non-gaming revenue generated by The Venetian Macao during the tax year
prior to the redemption multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the
subconcession. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our subconcession
agreement on terms favorable to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our subconcession
is redeemed, the compensation paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future
revenues.

The number of visitors to Macau, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel
to Macau may be disrupted.

Our VIP and mass market gaming patrons typically come from nearby destinations in Asia,
including mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan. Increasingly, a significant number of
gaming patrons come to our casinos from mainland China.

The large investments that we and our competitors are making in the construction of new hotels
and casinos, are based, in part, on projections regarding the number of visitors, and in
particular, visitors from mainland China. As a result, general economic conditions and policies in
China could have a significant impact on our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth
or changes of China’s current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the
number of visitors from mainland China to our casinos in Macau as well as the amounts they are
willing and able to spend while at our properties.

Policies and measures adopted from time to time by the Chinese government include restrictions
imposed on exit visa applicants for travel to Macau by Chinese authorities. Under the measures,
residents of mainland China are restricted to making only one visit every two months instead of one
visit per month. In addition, residents of mainland China visiting Hong Kong may no longer visit
Macau on the same visa, but instead must obtain a separate visa for any visit to Macau. These
developments have, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect
of reducing the number of visitors to Macau from mainland China, which could adversely impact
tourism and the gaming industry in Macau.

Our Macau operations face intense competition, which could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive. Our Macau operations currently
compete with numerous other casinos located in Macau. Our Macau operations will also compete to
some extent with casinos located elsewhere in Asia, including Singapore, Australia, New Zealand and
elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas. In addition, certain countries have legalized, and
others may in the future legalize, casino gaming, including Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand.
The proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia could have a significant and adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.





The Macau and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future,
which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.

We hold a subconcession under one of only three gaming concessions authorized by the Macau
government to operate casinos in Macau. No additional concessions have been granted; however, if
the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through the grant of
additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government to develop an integrated
resort, including a casino. Beginning on January 29, 2009, the
Singapore government will not license another casino for at least ten years. If the Singapore
government were to license additional casinos, we would face additional competition which could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We may not be able to obtain adequate labor to construct our development projects in Macau or
attract and retain professional staff necessary for our existing and future operations in Macau
and Singapore.

The timing of completion of phases I and II of our Cotai Strip integrated resort on parcels 5
and 6, as well as future Cotai Strip integrated resorts, is dependent on our ability to obtain
sufficient construction labor for the project. We are currently working with the Macau government
to obtain adequate labor quotas for parcels 5 and 6 and are progressing on alternative scenarios
for completion of selected portions of phases I and II with the construction labor currently on
site.

Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and
motivate skilled employees once our properties are in operation. In addition, the Macau government
requires us to only hire Macau residents as dealers in our casinos. There is significant
competition in Macau and Singapore for employees with the skills required to perform the services
we offer and competition for these individuals in Macau is likely to increase as we open our
remaining Cotai Strip developments and as other competitors expand their operations. There can be
no assurance that a sufficient number of construction labor and skilled employees will be
available, or that we will be successful in training, retaining and motivating current or future
employees. If we are unable to obtain construction labor or attract, retain and train skilled
employees, our ability to complete our planned development projects in Macau and adequately manage
and staff our existing and planned casino and resort properties in Macau and Singapore could be
impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows.

We are dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of our gaming revenues in
Macau.

Junket operators, who promote gaming and draw high-roller customers to casinos, are
responsible for a significant portion of our gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in gaming in
Macau, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. While we are
undertaking initiatives to strengthen our relationships with our current junket operators, there
can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain, or grow, our relationships with junket
operators. If we are unable to maintain or grow our relationships with junket operators, and if the
junket operators are unable to develop or maintain relationships with our high-roller customers,
our ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered.

In addition, the quality of junket operators is important to our reputation and our ability to
continue to operate in compliance with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our
associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom we are
associated will meet the high standards we insist upon. If a junket operator falls below our
standards, we may suffer reputational harm, as well as worsening relationships with, and possibly
sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations.

Our business could be adversely affected by the limitations of the pataca exchange markets and
restrictions on the export of the renminbi.

Our revenues in Macau are denominated in patacas, the legal currency of Macau, and Hong Kong
dollars. Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you that patacas will continue to be freely
exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the currency market for patacas is relatively small
and undeveloped, our ability to convert
large amounts of patacas into U.S. dollars over a relatively short period may be limited. As a
result, we may experience difficulty in converting patacas into U.S. dollars.





We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi, the legal currency of China.
There are also restrictions on the export of the renminbi outside of mainland China and the amount
of renminbi that can be converted into foreign currencies, including the pataca and Hong Kong
dollar. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from
mainland China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact our gaming
operations.

On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced that the renminbi will no longer be
pegged to the U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and, to a limited extent,
increase in value) against a basket of foreign currencies. The Macau pataca is pegged to the Hong
Kong dollar. Certain Asian countries have publicly asserted their desire to eliminate the peg of
the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Hong Kong
dollar and the Macau pataca will continue to be pegged to the U.S. dollar or that the current peg
rate for these currencies will remain at the same level. The floating of the renminbi and possible
changes to the peg of the Hong Kong dollar may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate
for these currencies. Any change in such exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our
operations and on our ability to make payments on certain of our debt instruments. We do not
currently hedge for foreign currency risk.

Certain Nevada gaming laws apply to our gaming activities and associations in other jurisdictions
where we operate or plan to operate.

Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to our gaming activities and associations in
jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada. We are required to comply with certain reporting
requirements concerning our proposed gaming activities and associations occurring outside the State
of Nevada, including Macau, Singapore and other jurisdictions. We will also be subject to
disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if we:

•knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming
operation;

•fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty
and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;

•engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it
poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to
reflect discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary
to the gaming policies of Nevada;

•engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of
the State of Nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or

•employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who
has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal
unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.

In addition, if the Nevada Board determines that one of our actual or intended activities or
associations in a foreign gaming operation may violate one or more of the foregoing, we can be
required to file an application with the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability of such
activity or association. If the Nevada Commission finds that the activity or association in the
foreign gaming operation is unsuitable or prohibited, we will either be required to terminate the
activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association.
Consequently, should the Nevada Commission find that our gaming activities or associations in Macau
or certain other jurisdictions where we operate are unsuitable, we may be prohibited from
undertaking our planned gaming activities or associations in those jurisdictions.

The gaming authorities in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate, including
in Macau and Singapore, exercise similar powers for purposes of assessing suitability in relation
to our activities in other gaming jurisdictions where we do business.





We may not be able to monetize some of our real estate assets.

Part of our business strategy in Macau relies upon our ability to profitably operate, sell
and/or grant rights of use over certain of our real estate assets once developed, including retail
malls and apart-hotels, and to use the proceeds of these operations and sales to refinance, or
repay, in part our construction loans for these assets, as well as to fund existing and future
development both in Macau and elsewhere. Our ability to monetize these assets will be subject to
market conditions, applicable legislation, the receipt of necessary government approvals and other
factors. If we are unable to profitably operate and/or monetize these real estate assets, we will
have to seek alternative sources of capital to refinance in part our construction loans and for
other investment capital. These alternative sources of capital may not be available on commercially
reasonable terms or at all.

VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers managed by its contractors under
government labor quotas.

The Macau government has granted VML a quota to permit it to hire foreign workers. VML has
effectively assigned the management of this quota to its contractors for the construction of our Cotai Strip projects. VML, however, remains ultimately
liable for all employer obligations relating to these employees, including for payment of wages and
taxes and compliance with labor and workers’ compensation laws. VML requires each contractor to
whom it has assigned the management of part of its labor quota to indemnify VML for any costs or
liabilities VML incurs as a result of such contractor’s failure to fulfill employer obligations.
VML’s agreements with its contractors also contain provisions that permit it to retain some
payments for up to one year after the contractors’ complete work on the projects. We cannot assure
you that VML’s contractors will fulfill their obligations to employees hired under the labor quotas
or to VML under the indemnification agreements, or that the amount of any indemnification payments
received will be sufficient to pay for any obligations VML may owe to employees managed by
contractors under VML’s quotas. Until we make final payments to our contractors, we have offset
rights to collect amounts they may owe us, including amounts owed under the indemnities relating to
employer obligations. After we have made the final payments, it may be more difficult for us to
enforce any unpaid indemnity obligations.

The transportation infrastructure in Macau may need to be expanded to meet increased visitation in
Macau.

Macau is in the process of expanding its transportation infrastructure to service the
increased number of visitors to Macau. If the planned expansions of transportation facilities to
and from Macau are delayed or not completed, and Macau’s transportation infrastructure is
insufficient to meet the demands of an increased volume of visitors to Macau, the desirability of
Macau as a gaming and tourist destination, as well as the results of operations of our Macau
properties, could be negatively impacted.

We are currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming operations in
Macau. This tax exemption expires at the end of 2013.

We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Macau, which exempts us from paying
corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. We will continue to
benefit from this tax exemption through the end of 2013. We cannot assure you that this tax
exemption will be extended beyond the expiration date and we do not expect this tax exemption to
apply to our non-gaming activities.

Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt operations.

Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons. On some occasions, typhoons have caused a
considerable amount of damage to Macau’s infrastructure and economy. In the event of a major
typhoon or other natural disaster in Macau, our business may be severely disrupted and our results
of operations could be adversely affected. Although we have insurance coverage with respect to
these events, we cannot assure you that our coverage will be sufficient to fully indemnify us
against all direct and indirect costs, including loss of business that could result from
substantial damage to, or partial or complete destruction of, our Macau properties or other damage
to the infrastructure or economy of Macau.





An outbreak of highly infectious disease could adversely affect the number of visitors to our
facilities and disrupt our operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Outbreaks of highly infectious diseases, such as the highly contagious form of atypical
pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome (or SARS), avian flu and, more recently, swine
flu, has resulted in a decrease in travel to and from, and economic activity in, affected regions,
including Macau. Potential future outbreaks of highly infectious diseases may adversely affect the
number of visitors to our operating properties and our other properties we are currently
developing. Furthermore, an outbreak might disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and
could generally disrupt our operations. If any of our customers or employees is suspected of having
contracted certain highly contagious diseases, we may be required to quarantine these customers or
employees or the affected areas of our facilities and temporarily suspend part or all of our
operations at affected facilities. Any new outbreak of such a highly infectious disease could have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.



