ITEM 1A. —RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other
information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with evaluating the Company.
Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be
immaterial may also materially and adversely effect our business, financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See
“Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.”

Risks Related to Our Business

Disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to raise additional
financing.
Should general economic conditions not improve, if we are unable to obtain sufficient funding such
that completion of our suspended projects is not probable, or should management decide to abandon
certain projects, all or a portion of our investment to date in our suspended projects could be
lost.

Severe disruptions in the commercial credit markets have resulted in a tightening of credit
markets worldwide. Liquidity in the global credit markets has been severely contracted by these
market disruptions, making it difficult and costly to obtain new lines of credit or to refinance
existing debt. The effects of these disruptions are widespread and difficult to quantify, and it is
impossible to predict when the global credit markets will improve, if at all, or when the credit
contraction will stop.

Our business and financing plan is dependent upon completion of various financings, including
additional financings in Macau and Singapore, as described in “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Given
the state of the current credit environment, it may be difficult to obtain any additional financing
on acceptable terms, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to complete our planned
development projects, and as a consequence, our results of operations and business plans.
 Should general
economic conditions not improve, if we are unable to obtain sufficient funding such that completion
of our suspended projects is not probable, or should management decide to abandon certain projects,
all or a portion of the Company’s investment to date on our suspended projects could be lost and
would result in an impairment charge. In addition, we may be subject to penalties under the
termination clauses in our construction contracts or termination rights under our management
contracts with certain hotel management companies.

Our business is particularly sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending as a
result of downturns in the economy.

Consumer demand for hotel/casino resorts, trade shows and conventions and for the type of
luxury amenities we offer is particularly sensitive to downturns in the economy and the
corresponding impact on discretionary spending on leisure activities. Changes in discretionary
consumer spending or consumer preferences could be driven by factors such as perceived or actual
general economic conditions; the current housing crisis and the credit crisis; high energy, fuel
and food costs; the increased cost of travel; the
potential for bank failures; the weakened job market; perceived or actual disposable consumer
income and wealth; fears of recession and changes in consumer confidence in the economy; or fears
of war and future acts of terrorism. These factors could reduce consumer demand for the luxury
amenities and leisure activities we offer, thus imposing practical limits on pricing and harming
our operations.





The general global economic slowdown has resulted in a decline in tourism and visitors to
Macau and Las Vegas, with Las Vegas also being affected by the current housing crisis. In Macau,
according to government statistics, visitor arrivals to Macau decreased 5.1% and occupancy rates
have decreased 2.9% during 2009 as compared to 2008. Despite the decline in visitors, gaming
revenue increased 9.7% in 2009 as compared to 2008, while it increased 50.2% for the quarter ended
December 31, 2009, as compared to the quarter ended December 31, 2008. In Las Vegas, according to
visitor statistics, occupancy rates across Las Vegas declined by 4.5%, room rates declined by 22.0%
and gaming revenue declined by 9.4% during 2009 as compared to 2008. For the quarter ended
December 31, 2009, occupancy rates across Las Vegas declined by 2.0%, room rates declined by 11.8%
and gaming revenues were unchanged compared to the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The failure of
these recent trends to continue to improve in both Macau and Las Vegas could have an adverse effect
on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

There are significant risks associated with our planned construction projects, which could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows from these planned
facilities.

Our ongoing and future construction projects, such as our Cotai Strip projects, Marina Bay
Sands, Sands Bethlehem and the St. Regis Residences, entail significant risks. Construction
activity requires us to obtain qualified contractors and subcontractors, the availability of which
may be uncertain. Construction projects are subject to cost overruns and delays caused by events
outside of our control or, in certain cases, our contractors’ control, such as shortages of
materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work
stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and unavailability of construction
materials or equipment. Construction, equipment or staffing problems or difficulties in obtaining
any of the requisite materials, licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from governmental
or regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, jeopardize, prevent the
construction or opening of our projects, or otherwise affect the design and features. In addition,
the number of ongoing projects and their locations throughout the world present unique challenges
and risks to our management structure. If our management is unable to successfully manage our
worldwide construction projects, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations or cash flows.

Historically, we have not entered into a fixed-price or guaranteed maximum price contract with
a single construction manager or general contractor. As a result, we rely heavily upon our in-house
development and construction team to coordinate the work of the various trade contractors and
manage construction costs, which put more of the risk of cost-overruns on us but allows us greater
flexibility. If we are unable to manage costs or we are unable to raise capital required, we may
not be able to open or complete these projects, which may have an adverse impact on our business
and prospects for growth.

The anticipated costs and completion dates for our projects are based on budgets, designs,
development and construction documents and schedule estimates that we have prepared with the
assistance of architects and other construction development consultants and that are subject to
change as the design, development and construction documents are finalized and as actual
construction work is performed. A failure to complete our projects on budget or on schedule may
have an adverse effect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Due to the
suspension of certain of our development projects, the estimated costs to complete and open these
projects is currently not determinable and therefore may have an adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows. See also “— Risks Associated with Our International
Operations — We are required to build and open our developments on parcel 3 of the Cotai Strip by
April 2013. Unless we meet this deadline or obtain an extension, we may lose our land concession
for parcel 3, which would prohibit us from operating any facilities developed under such land
concession.”

The failure to obtain the necessary financing, or satisfy these funding conditions, could
adversely effect our ability to construct our development projects.

Because we are currently dependent primarily upon our properties in two markets for all of our
cash flow, we are subject to greater risks than a gaming company with more operating properties or
that operates in more markets.

We currently do not have material operations other than our Las Vegas and Macau properties. As
a result, we are primarily dependent upon these properties for all of our cash flow until we open
our Marina Bay Sands, which is expected to open on April 27, 2010.





Given that our operations are currently conducted primarily at properties in Las Vegas and
Macau and that a large portion of our planned future development is in Macau and Singapore, we will
be subject to greater degrees of risk than a gaming company with more operating properties or that
operates in more markets. The risks to which we will have a greater degree of exposure include the
following:

•local economic and competitive conditions;

•inaccessibility due to inclement weather, road construction or closure of primary access
routes;

•decline in air passenger traffic due to higher ticket costs or fears concerning air
travel;

•changes in local and state governmental laws and regulations, including gaming laws and
regulations;

•natural and other disasters, including the risk of typhoons in the South China region or
outbreaks of infectious diseases;

•changes in the availability of water; and

•a decline in the number of visitors to Las Vegas or Macau or visitation levels in
Singapore are less than expected.

Our substantial debt could impair our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We
will need to incur additional debt to finance our planned construction projects.

We are highly leveraged and have substantial debt service obligations. As of December 31,
2009, we had $11.03 billion of long-term debt outstanding. This substantial indebtedness could have
important consequences to us. For example, it could:

•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations;

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital
needs, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions or general corporate
purposes;

•require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the
payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for
our operations and development projects;

•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the
industry in which we operate;

•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less
debt; and

•subject us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates as a
significant portion of our debt is and will continue to be at variable rates of interest.

We expect that all of our current projects will be funded with existing cash balances, cash
flows from operations and available borrowings from our existing and proposed credit facilities, with the
exception of those projects currently suspended. We cannot assure you that we will obtain all the
financing required for the construction and opening of our suspended projects on acceptable terms,
if at all.

The terms of our debt instruments may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our
ability to finance additional growth, respond to changes or take some actions that may otherwise
be in our best interests.

Our current debt instruments contain, and any future debt instruments likely will contain, a
number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us,
including restrictions on our ability to:

•incur additional debt, including providing guarantees or credit support;

•incur liens securing indebtedness or other obligations;







•dispose of assets;

•make certain acquisitions;

•pay dividends or make distributions and make other restricted payments, such as
purchasing equity interests, repurchasing junior indebtedness or making investments in third
parties;

•enter into sale and leaseback transactions;

•engage in any new businesses;

•issue preferred stock; and

•enter into transactions with our stockholders and our affiliates.

In addition, our U.S., Macau and Singapore credit agreements contain various financial
covenants. See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements — Note 1 — Organization and Business of Company — Development Financing
Strategy” and “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements — Note 8 — Long-Term Debt” for further description of these covenants and the
potential impact of noncompliance.

Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all possible losses that our properties could
suffer. In addition, our insurance costs may increase and we may not be able to obtain the same
insurance coverage in the future.

Although we have all-risk property insurance for our operating properties covering damage
caused by a casualty loss (such as fire or natural disasters), each policy has certain exclusions.
In addition, our property insurance coverage is in an amount that may be significantly less than
the expected replacement cost of rebuilding the facilities if there was a total loss. Our level of
insurance coverage also may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of a major casualty.
In addition, certain casualty events, such as labor strikes, nuclear events, loss of income due to
cancellation of room reservations or conventions due to fear of terrorism, deterioration or
corrosion, insect or animal damage and pollution, might not be covered at all under our policies.
Therefore, certain acts could expose us to substantial uninsured losses.

We also have builder’s risk insurance for our projects under construction in Macau and
Singapore. Builder’s risk insurance provides coverage for projects during their construction for
damage caused by a casualty loss. In general, our builder’s risk coverage is subject to the same
exclusions, risks and deficiencies as those described above for our all-risk property coverage. Our
level of builder’s risk insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses in the event of
a major casualty.

In addition, although we currently have insurance coverage for occurrences of terrorist acts
with respect to our operating properties and for certain losses that could result from these acts,
our terrorism coverage is subject to the same risks and deficiencies as those described above for
our all-risk property coverage. The lack of sufficient insurance for these types of acts could
expose us to substantial losses in the event that any damages occur, directly or indirectly, as a
result of terrorist attacks or otherwise, which could have a significant negative impact on our
operations.

In addition to the damage caused to our operating properties by a casualty loss, we may suffer
business disruption as a result of these events or be subject to claims by third parties injured or
harmed. While we carry business interruption insurance and general liability insurance, this
insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses in any such event.

We renew our insurance policies (other than our builder’s risk insurance) on an annual basis.
The cost of coverage may become so high that we may need to further reduce our policy limits or
agree to certain exclusions from our coverage. Among other factors, it is possible that regional
political tensions, homeland security concerns, other catastrophic events or any change in
government legislation governing insurance coverage for acts of terrorism could materially
adversely effect available insurance coverage and result in increased premiums on available
coverage (which may cause us to elect to reduce our policy limits), additional exclusions from
coverage or higher deductibles. Among other potential future adverse changes, in the future we may
elect to not, or may not be able to, obtain any coverage for losses due to acts of terrorism.





Our debt instruments and other material agreements require us to maintain a certain minimum
level of insurance. Failure to satisfy these requirements could result in an event of default under
these debt instruments or material agreements.

We depend on the continued services of key managers and employees. If we do not retain our key
personnel or attract and retain other highly skilled employees, our business will suffer.

Our ability to maintain our competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the
services of our senior management team, including Sheldon G. Adelson and our other executive
officers. Mr. Adelson, Michael A. Leven, Robert G. Goldstein, Kenneth J. Kay and J. Alberto
Gonzalez-Pita have each entered into employment agreements with us; however, we cannot assure you
that any of our executive officers will remain with us. These agreements are currently scheduled to
expire in December 2010 for Mr. Adelson, March 2011 for Mr. Leven and December 2011 for
Messrs. Goldstein, Kay and Gonzalez-Pita. We currently do not have a life insurance policy on any
of the members of the senior management team. The death or loss of the services of any of our
senior managers or the inability to attract and retain additional senior management personnel could
have a material adverse effect on our business.

We are controlled by a principal stockholder whose interest in our business may be different than
yours.

Mr. Adelson, his family members and trusts established for the benefit of Mr. Adelson and/or
his family members beneficially own (excluding unexercised warrants to purchase 87.5 million shares
of our common stock) approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009.
Accordingly, Mr. Adelson exercises significant influence over our business policies and affairs,
including the composition of our Board of Directors and any action requiring the approval of our
stockholders, including the adoption of amendments to our articles of incorporation and the
approval of a merger or sale of substantially all of our assets. The concentration of ownership may
also delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions
more difficult or impossible without the support of Mr. Adelson. Because Mr. Adelson and trusts for
the benefit of Mr. Adelson and/or his family members own more than 50% of the voting power of our
company, we are considered a controlled company under the NYSE listing standards. As such, the NYSE
corporate governance rules requiring that a majority of our Board of Directors and our entire
compensation committee be independent do not apply to us. As a result, the ability of our
independent directors to influence our business policies and affairs may be reduced. The interests
of Mr. Adelson may conflict with your interests.

We are a parent company and our primary source of cash is and will be distributions from our
subsidiaries.

We are a parent company with limited business operations of our own. Our main asset is the
capital stock of our subsidiaries. We conduct most of our business operations through our direct
and indirect subsidiaries. Accordingly, our primary sources of cash are dividends and distributions
with respect to our ownership interests in our subsidiaries that are derived from the earnings and
cash flow generated by our operating properties. Our subsidiaries might not generate sufficient
earnings and cash flow to pay dividends or distributions in the future. Our subsidiaries’ payments
to us will be contingent upon their earnings and upon other business considerations. In addition,
our subsidiaries’ debt instruments and other agreements limit or prohibit certain payments of
dividends or other distributions to us. We expect that future debt instruments for the financing of
our other developments, including our Cotai Strip developments, will contain similar restrictions.

Our business is sensitive to the willingness of our customers to travel. Acts of terrorism,
regional political events and developments in the conflicts in certain countries could cause
severe disruptions in air travel that reduce the number of visitors to our facilities, resulting
in a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We are dependent on the willingness of our customers to travel. A substantial number of our
customers for The Venetian Las Vegas and The Palazzo use air travel to come to Las Vegas. Acts of
terrorism may severely disrupt domestic and international travel, which would result in a decrease
in customer visits to Las Vegas, including our properties. Regional conflicts could have a similar
effect on domestic and international travel. Most of our customers travel to reach our Las Vegas
and Macau properties and, following its opening, our Singapore property. Only a small amount of our
business is and will be generated by local residents. Management cannot predict the extent to which
disruptions in air or other forms of travel as a result of any further terrorist act, outbreak of
hostilities or escalation of war would adversely effect our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

We extend credit to a large portion of our customers and we may not be able to collect gaming
receivables from our credit players.

We conduct our gaming activities on a credit and cash basis. Any such credit we extend is
unsecured. Table games players typically are extended more credit than slot players, and
high-stakes players typically are extended more credit than patrons who tend to wager
lower amounts. High-end gaming is more volatile than other forms of gaming, and variances in
win-loss results attributable to high-end gaming may have a significant positive or negative impact
on cash flow and earnings in a particular quarter.





During the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 57.5% and 31.4% of our table games drop
at our Las Vegas properties and Macau properties, respectively, was from credit-based wagering. We
extend credit to those customers whose level of play and financial resources warrant, in the
opinion of management, an extension of credit. These large receivables could have a significant
impact on our results of operations if deemed uncollectible.

While gaming debts evidenced by a credit instrument, including what is commonly referred to as
a “marker,” and judgments on gaming debts are enforceable under the current laws of Nevada, and
Nevada judgments on gaming debts are enforceable in all states under the Full Faith and Credit
Clause of the U.S. Constitution, other jurisdictions may determine that enforcement of gaming debts
is against public policy. Although courts of some foreign nations will enforce gaming debts
directly and the assets in the U.S. of foreign debtors may be reached to satisfy a judgment,
judgments on gaming debts from U.S. courts are not binding on the courts of many foreign nations.

Any violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or applicable Anti-Money Laundering Regulation
could have a negative impact on us.

We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which
generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to
foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Any determination that we
have violated the FCPA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We also
deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and
anti-money laundering regulations. Any violation of anti-money laundering laws or regulations by
any of our properties could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

Risks Associated with Our U.S. Operations

We face significant competition in Las Vegas, which could materially adversely effect our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
In addition, any significant downturn in the trade show and convention business could
significantly and adversely affect our mid-week occupancy rates and business.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses in Las Vegas are highly competitive. We also compete,
to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada and Atlantic City, as well as
hotel/casinos and other resort facilities and vacation destinations elsewhere in the United States
and around the world. Many of our competitors are subsidiaries or divisions of large public
companies and have substantial financial and other resources.
In addition, various competitors on the Las Vegas Strip periodically expand and/or renovate their
existing facilities. If demand for hotel rooms does not keep up
with the increase in the number of hotel rooms, competitive pressures may cause reductions in
average room rates.

We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands,
including those located in California. While the competitive impact on our operations in Las Vegas
from the continued growth of Native American gaming establishments in California remains uncertain,
the proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in the same region as our Las
Vegas Operating Properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific
areas, including metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract customers. A number of
states have permitted or are considering permitting gaming at “racinos,” on Native American
reservations and through expansion of state lotteries. The current global trend toward
liberalization of gaming restrictions and resulting proliferation of gaming venues could result in
a decrease in the number of visitors to our Las Vegas facilities by attracting customers close to
home and away from Las Vegas, which could adversely effect our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

The Sands Expo Center provides recurring demand for mid-week room nights for business
travelers who attend meetings, trade shows and conventions in Las Vegas. The Sands Expo Center
presently competes with other large convention centers, including convention centers in Las Vegas
and other cities. Competition will be increasing for the Sands Expo Center as a result of planned
additional convention and meeting facilities, as well as the enhancement or expansion of existing
convention and meeting facilities, in
Las Vegas. To the extent that these competitors are able to capture a substantially larger
portion of the trade show and convention business, there could be a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.





The loss of our gaming license or our failure to comply with the extensive regulations that govern
our operations in any jurisdiction where we operate could have an adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Our gaming operations and the ownership of our securities are subject to extensive regulation
by the Nevada Commission, the Nevada Board and the CCLGLB. The Nevada Gaming Authorities have broad
authority with respect to licensing and registration of our business entities and individuals
investing in or otherwise involved with us.

Although we currently are registered with, and LVSLLC and VCR currently hold gaming licenses
issued by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, these authorities may, among other things, revoke the
gaming license of any corporate entity or the registration of a registered corporation or any
entity registered as a holding company of a corporate licensee for violations of gaming
regulations.

In addition, the Nevada Gaming Authorities may, under certain conditions, revoke the license
or finding of suitability of any officer, director, controlling person, stockholder, noteholder or
key employee of a licensed or registered entity. If our gaming licenses were revoked for any
reason, the Nevada Gaming Authorities could require the closing of the casino, which would have a
material adverse effect on our business. In addition, compliance costs associated with gaming laws,
regulations or licenses are significant. Any change in the laws, regulations or licenses applicable
to our business or gaming licenses could require us to make substantial expenditures or could
otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.

A similar dynamic exists in all jurisdictions where we operate and a regulatory action against
one of our operating entities in any gaming jurisdiction could impact our operations in other
gaming jurisdictions where we do business. For a more complete description of the gaming regulatory
requirements affecting our business, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing.”

Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file an application with,
and be investigated by, the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and the Nevada Commission may restrict the
ability of a beneficial owner to receive any benefit from our voting securities and may require
the disposition of shares of our voting securities, if a beneficial owner is found to be
unsuitable.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10% of our voting securities will be
required to apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after
the Chairman of the Nevada Board mails a written notice requiring the filing. Under certain
circumstances, an “institutional investor” as defined under the regulations of the Nevada
Commission, which acquires beneficial ownership of more than 10%, but not more than 15%, of our
voting securities (subject to certain additional holdings as a result of certain debt
restructurings or stock repurchase programs under the Nevada Act), may apply to the Nevada
Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability requirement if the institutional investor
holds our voting securities only for investment purposes. In addition, any beneficial owner of our
voting securities, regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the
discretion of the Nevada Commission to file an application for a finding of suitability as such. In
either case, a finding of suitability is comparable to licensing and the applicant must pay all
costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting the investigation.

Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within
thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Gaming Authorities may be found unsuitable.
The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify
the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable and who holds, directly or indirectly, any
beneficial ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such period of time as
may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to
disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or
to have any other relationship with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed
subsidiaries:

•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through
securities held by that person;

•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or

•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or
her voting securities including, if necessary, purchasing them for cash at fair market
value.







For a more complete description of the Nevada gaming regulatory requirements applicable to
beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing —
State of Nevada.”

Certain beneficial owners of our voting securities may be required to file a license application
with, and be investigated by, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board, the Pennsylvania State Police
and other agencies.

Any person who acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more of our voting securities will be
required to apply to the PaGCB for licensure, obtain licensure and remain licensed. Licensure
requires, among other things, that the applicant establish by clear and convincing evidence the
applicant’s good character, honesty and integrity. Additionally, any trust that holds 5% or more of
our voting securities is required to be licensed by the PaGCB and each individual who is a grantor,
trustee or beneficiary of the trust is also required to be licensed by the PaGCB. Under certain
circumstances and under the regulations of the PaGCB, an “institutional investor” as defined under
the regulations of the PaGCB, which acquires beneficial ownership of 5% or more, but less than 10%,
of our voting securities, may not be required to be licensed by the PaGCB provided the PaGCB grants
a waiver of the licensure requirement. In addition, any beneficial owner of our voting securities,
regardless of the number of shares beneficially owned, may be required at the discretion of the
PaGCB to file an application for licensure.

Furthermore, a person or a group of persons acting in concert who acquire(s) more than 20% of
our securities, with the exception of the ownership interest of a person at the time of original
licensure when the license fee was paid, would trigger a “change in control” (as defined under
applicable law). Such a change in control could require us to re-apply for licensure by the PaGCB
and incur a $50.0 million license fee.

In the event a security holder is required to be found qualified and is not found qualified,
the security holder may be required by the PaGCB to divest of the interest at a price not exceeding
the cost of the interest.

For a more complete description of the Pennsylvania gaming regulatory requirements applicable
to beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing —
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.”

If the operating results of The Shoppes at The Palazzo continue to be less than we initially
expected, if GGP (or any future owner of The Shoppes at The Palazzo or The Grand Canal Shoppes)
breaches any of its material agreements with us, or if we are unable to maintain an acceptable
working relationship with GGP (or any future owner), there could be a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We have entered into agreements with GGP under which, among other things:

•GGP remains obligated to make payments to us in connection with their purchase of The
Shoppes at The Palazzo, which payments are based on projected and, ultimately, actual net
operating income for The Shoppes at The Palazzo; and

•GGP has agreed to operate The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Shoppes at The Palazzo subject
to, and in accordance with, the cooperation agreement.

If the global economic downturn continues, the net operating income for The Shoppes at The
Palazzo may continue to be significantly worse than expected at the time the complex was sold to
GGP, and therefore the amounts GGP is obligated to pay us may also be significantly less than
expected. (Some of the tenants at The Shoppes at The Palazzo whose sales have been less than
initially expected have already asked for temporary reductions or abatements in base rent, to which
we and GGP have agreed.) Further, as a result of GGP’s publicly disclosed liquidity and leverage
problems, there can be no assurance that GGP will be able to pay us future amounts owed.

In April 2009, GGP and its subsidiary that owns The Shoppes at The Palazzo filed the
Chapter 11 Cases. Additionally, given the economic and market conditions facing retailers on a
national and local level, tenants are facing economic challenges that have effected, and may effect
in the future, the calculation of NOI. See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data —
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 5 — Property and Equipment, Net.”





Our agreements with GGP could be adversely affected in ways that could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows if we do not maintain an
acceptable working relationship with GGP or its successors. For example:

•the Company learned that one tenant filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 7
of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and another tenant has delayed its construction plans, creating
a question as to whether the rent of the latter tenant will be included in the NOI; and

•the cooperation agreement that governs the relationships between The Shoppes at The
Palazzo and The Palazzo and The Grand Canal Shoppes and The Venetian Las Vegas requires that
the owners cooperate in various ways and take various joint actions, which will be more
difficult to accomplish, especially in a cost-effective manner, if the parties do not have
an acceptable working relationship.

There could be similar material adverse consequences to us if GGP breaches any of its
agreements to us, such as its agreement under the cooperation agreement to operate The Grand Canal
Shoppes consistent with the standards of first-class restaurant and retail complexes and the
overall Venetian theme, and its various obligations as our landlord under the leases described
above. Although our agreements with GGP provide us with various remedies in the event of any
breaches by GGP and include various dispute resolution procedures and mechanisms, these remedies,
procedures and mechanisms may be inadequate to prevent a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows if breaches by GGP occur or if we do not maintain an
acceptable working relationship with GGP.

Proposed changes in U.S. tax legislation could impact the Company’s financial condition and
results of operations.

In February 2010, the Obama Administration released its fiscal year 2011 budget which included
proposals for new U.S. tax legislation that would change how U.S. multinational corporations are
taxed on their global income. It is uncertain whether some or all of the proposals will be enacted.
Depending on their content, such proposals, if enacted, could increase our U.S. income tax expense
and liability, and therefore, negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial condition and
results of operations.

Risks Associated with Our International Operations

Conducting business in Macau and Singapore has certain political and economic risks which may
effect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows of our Asian operations.

Our operations in Macau include the Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao and the Four Seasons
Macao. We plan to open and operate additional hotels, gaming areas and meeting space on the Cotai
Strip in Macau. We also plan to own and operate the Marina Bay Sands in Singapore. Accordingly, our
business development plans, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows may be
materially and adversely effected by significant political, social and economic developments in
Macau and Singapore, and by changes in policies of the governments or changes in laws and
regulations or their interpretations. See “Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data —
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 1 — Organization and Business of Company —
Development Financing Strategy.” Our operations in Macau are, and our operations in Singapore will
be, also exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of companies
based in those countries. Jurisdictional tax laws and regulations may also be subject to amendment
or different interpretation and implementation, thereby adversely effecting our profitability after
tax. Further, the percentage of our gross gaming revenues that we must contribute annually to the
Macau authorities is subject to change in 2010. These changes may have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

As we expect a significant number of consumers to come to our Macau properties from mainland
China, general economic conditions and policies in China could have a significant impact on our
financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth or changes of China’s current restrictions on
travel and currency movements could disrupt the number of visitors from mainland China to our
casinos in Macau as well as the amounts they are willing to spend in the casinos. See “— The number
of visitors to Macau, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel to Macau may
be disrupted.”

Current Macau laws and regulations concerning gaming and gaming concessions are, for the most
part, fairly recent and there is little precedent on the interpretation of these laws and
regulations. We believe that our organizational structure and operations are in compliance in all
material respects with all applicable laws and regulations of Macau. These laws and regulations are
complex and a court or an administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an
interpretation of these laws and regulations, or issue regulations, which differs from our
interpretation and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows. As Marina Bay Sands will be one of two gaming facilities in Singapore
following the government’s adoption of gaming legislation in 2005, the laws and regulations
relating to gaming and their interpretations are untested.





In addition, our activities in Macau are, and our operations in Singapore will be, subject to
administrative review and approval by various government agencies. We cannot assure you that we
will be able to obtain all necessary approvals, which may materially affect our long-term business
strategy and operations. Macau and Singapore laws permit redress to the courts with respect to
administrative actions; however, such redress is largely untested in relation to gaming issues.

We are constructing our remaining Cotai Strip projects on land for which we have not yet been
granted concessions. If we do not obtain land concessions, we could forfeit all or a substantial
part of our investment in these sites and would not be able to build or operate the planned
facilities on these sites.

We are required to build and open our developments on parcel 3 of the Cotai Strip by April 2013.
Unless we meet this deadline or obtain an extension, we may lose our land concession for parcel 3,
which would prohibit us from operating any facilities development under such land concession.

Our revised development plan may give certain of our hotel managers for our Cotai Strip
developments the right to terminate their agreements with us.

We have entered into management agreements with Starwood and Shangri-La to manage hotels and
serviced luxury apart-hotel units located within our Cotai Strip development on parcels 5 and 6.
Our management agreements with Starwood and Shangri-La impose certain construction and opening
obligations and deadlines on us, and certain past and/or anticipated delays may represent a default
under the agreements, which would allow Starwood and Shangri-La to terminate their respective
agreements. In connection with receiving commitments for project financing, as well as completion of our SCL Offering,
we are recommencing construction on parcels 5 and 6 and are negotiating
amendments to the management agreements
 with
Starwood and Shangri-La to provide for new opening timelines, which we expect to finalize by the second quarter of 2010.
If negotiations are unsuccessful, Starwood and Shangri-La would have the right to terminate their
agreements with us, which would result in our having to find new managers and brands for these
projects, and which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.





The Macau government can terminate our subconcession under certain circumstances without
compensation to us, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results
of operations or cash flows.

The Macau government has the right, after consultation with Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate
our subconcession in the event of VML’s serious non-compliance with its basic obligations under the
subconcession and applicable Macau laws. Upon termination of our subconcession, our casinos and
gaming-related equipment would automatically be transferred to the Macau government without
compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. The loss of
our subconcession would prohibit us from conducting gaming operations in Macau, which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We will stop generating any revenues from our Macau gaming operations if we cannot secure an
extension of our subconcession in 2022 or if the Macau government exercises its redemption right.

Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. Unless our subconcession is extended, on
that date, all of our casinos and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the
Macau government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these
operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macau government may redeem the subconcession
agreement by providing us at least one year prior notice. In the event the Macau government
exercises this redemption right, we are entitled to fair compensation or indemnity. The amount of
such compensation or indemnity will be determined based on the amount of gaming and non-gaming
revenue, as defined, generated by The Venetian Macao during the tax year prior to the redemption
multiplied by the number of remaining years before expiration of the subconcession. We cannot
assure you that we will be able to renew or extend our subconcession agreement on terms favorable
to us or at all. We also cannot assure you that if our subconcession is redeemed, the compensation
paid will be adequate to compensate us for the loss of future revenues.

The number of visitors to Macau, particularly visitors from mainland China, may decline or travel
to Macau may be disrupted.

Our VIP and mass market gaming patrons typically come from nearby destinations in Asia,
including mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea and Japan. Increasingly, a significant number of
gaming patrons come to our casinos from mainland China.

The large investments that we and our competitors are making in the construction of new hotels
and casinos, are based, in part, on projections regarding the number of visitors, and in
particular, visitors from mainland China. As a result, general economic conditions and policies in
China could have a significant impact on our financial prospects. Any slowdown in economic growth
or changes of China’s current restrictions on travel and currency movements could disrupt the
number of visitors from mainland China to our casinos in Macau as well as the amounts they are
willing and able to spend while at our properties.

Policies and measures adopted from time to time by the Chinese government include restrictions
imposed on exit visa applicants for travel to Macau by Chinese authorities. Under the measures,
residents of mainland China are restricted to making only one visit every two months instead of one
visit per month. In addition, residents of mainland China visiting Hong Kong may no longer visit
Macau on the same visa, but instead must obtain a separate visa for any visit to Macau. These
developments have, and any future policy developments that may be implemented may have, the effect
of reducing the number of visitors to Macau from mainland China, which could adversely impact
tourism and the gaming industry in Macau.

Our Macau operations face intense competition, which could have a material adverse effect on
our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

The hotel, resort and casino businesses are highly competitive. Our Macau operations currently
compete with numerous other casinos located in Macau, including the recent openings of City of
Dreams and L’Arc. Our Macau operations will also compete to some extent with casinos located
elsewhere in Asia, such as Malaysia’s Genting Highlands and in Singapore, as well as gaming venues
in Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere in the world, including Las Vegas. In addition, certain
countries have legalized, and others may in the future legalize, casino gaming, including Hong
Kong, Japan, Taiwan and Thailand. The proliferation of gaming venues in Southeast Asia could
significantly and adversely effect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.





The Macau and Singapore governments could grant additional rights to conduct gaming in the future,
which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.

We hold a subconcession under one of only three gaming concessions authorized by the Macau
government to operate casinos in Macau. The Macau government permits existing concessionaires to
grant subconcessions; however, the Macau government has undertaken contractually not to grant
additional gaming concessions until April 1, 2009. No additional concessions have been granted;
however, if the Macau government were to allow additional competitors to operate in Macau through
the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition, which
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows.

We hold one of two licenses granted by the Singapore government to develop an integrated
resort, including a casino. Under the Exclusivity Period, which began on March 1, 2007, the
Singapore government will not license another casino for at least ten years. If the Singapore
government were to license additional casinos, we would face additional competition which could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We may not be able to attract and retain professional staff necessary for our existing and future
properties in Macau and our operations in Singapore.

Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and
motivate skilled employees. In addition, the Macau government requires us to only hire Macau
residents as dealers in our casinos. There is significant competition in Macau for employees with
the skills required to perform the services we offer and competition for these individuals is
likely to increase as we open our remaining Cotai Strip developments and as other competitors
expand their operations. We expect competition in Singapore for employees with the skills we
require as we develop and open the Marina Bay Sands. There can be no assurance that a sufficient
number of skilled employees will continue to be available, or that we will be successful in
training, retaining and motivating current or future employees. If we are unable to attract, retain
and train skilled employees, our ability to adequately manage and staff our existing and planned
casino and resort properties in Macau and Singapore could be impaired, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We are dependent upon gaming junket operators for a significant portion of our gaming revenues in
Macau.

Junket operators, who promote gaming and draw high-roller customers to casinos, are
responsible for a significant portion of our gaming revenues in Macau. With the rise in gaming in
Macau, the competition for relationships with junket operators has increased. While we are
undertaking initiatives to strengthen our relationships with our current junket operators, there
can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain, or grow, our relationships with junket
operators. If we are unable to maintain or grow our relationships with junket operators, our
ability to grow our gaming revenues will be hampered and we may seek alternative ways to develop
relationships with high-roller customers.

In addition, the quality of junket operators is important to our reputation and our ability to
continue to operate in compliance with our gaming licenses. While we strive for excellence in our
associations with junket operators, we cannot assure you that the junket operators with whom we are
associated will meet the high standards we insist upon. If a junket operator falls below our
standards, we may suffer reputational harm, as well as worsening relationships with, and possibly
sanctions from, gaming regulators with authority over our operations.

Our business could be adversely affected by the limitations of the pataca exchange markets and
restrictions on the export of the renminbi.

Our revenues in Macau are denominated in patacas, the legal currency of Macau, and Hong Kong
dollars. Although currently permitted, we cannot assure you that patacas will continue to be freely
exchangeable into U.S. dollars. Also, because the currency market for patacas is relatively small
and undeveloped, our ability to convert large amounts of patacas into U.S. dollars over a
relatively short period may be limited. As a result, we may experience difficulty in converting
patacas into U.S. dollars.

We are currently prohibited from accepting wagers in renminbi, the legal currency of China.
There are also restrictions on the export of the renminbi outside of
mainland China and the amount of renminbi that can be converted into
foreign currencies, including the pataca and Hong Kong dollar. Restrictions on the export of the renminbi may impede the flow of gaming customers from
mainland China to Macau, inhibit the growth of gaming in Macau and negatively impact our gaming
operations.





On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced that the renminbi will no longer be
pegged to the U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and, to a limited extent,
increase in value) against a basket of foreign currencies. The Macau pataca is pegged to the Hong
Kong dollar. Certain Asian countries have publicly asserted their desire to eliminate the peg of
the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar. As a result, we cannot assure you that the Hong Kong
dollar and the Macau pataca will continue to be pegged to the U.S. dollar or that the current peg
rate for these currencies will remain at the same level. The floating of the renminbi and possible
changes to the peg of the Hong Kong dollar may result in severe fluctuations in the exchange rate
for these currencies. Any change in such exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our
operations and on our ability to make payments on certain of our debt instruments. We do not
currently hedge for foreign currency risk.

Certain Nevada gaming laws apply to our planned gaming activities and associations in other
jurisdictions where we operate or plan to operate.

Certain Nevada gaming laws also apply to our gaming activities and associations in
jurisdictions outside the State of Nevada. We are required to comply with certain reporting
requirements concerning our proposed gaming activities and associations occurring outside the State
of Nevada, including Macau, Singapore and other jurisdictions. We will also be subject to
disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if we:

•knowingly violate any laws of the foreign jurisdiction pertaining to the foreign gaming
operation;

•fail to conduct the foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty
and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations;

•engage in any activity or enter into any association that is unsuitable for us because it
poses an unreasonable threat to the control of gaming in Nevada, reflects or tends to
reflect discredit or disrepute upon the State of Nevada or gaming in Nevada, or is contrary
to the gaming policies of Nevada;

•engage in any activity or enter into any association that interferes with the ability of
the State of Nevada to collect gaming taxes and fees; or

•employ, contract with or associate with any person in the foreign gaming operation who
has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal
unsuitability, or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.

In addition, if the Nevada Board determines that one of our actual or intended activities or
associations in a foreign gaming operation may violate one or more of the foregoing, we can be
required to file an application with the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability of such
activity or association. If the Nevada Commission finds that the activity or association in the
foreign gaming operation is unsuitable or prohibited, we will either be required to terminate the
activity or association, or will be prohibited from undertaking the activity or association.
Consequently, should the Nevada Commission find that our gaming activities or associations in Macau
or certain other jurisdictions where we operate are unsuitable, we may be prohibited from
undertaking our planned gaming activities or associations in those jurisdictions.

The
gaming authorities in other jurisdictions where we operate or plan to
operate, including in Macau and Singapore, exercise similar powers for purposes of assessing suitability in
relation to our activities in other gaming jurisdictions where we do business.

We may not be able to monetize some of our real estate assets.

Part of our business strategy in Macau relies upon our ability to profitably operate, sell
and/or grant rights of use over certain of our real estate assets once developed, including retail
malls and apart-hotels, and to use the proceeds of these operations and sales to refinance, or
repay, in part our construction loans for these assets, as well as to fund existing and future
development both in Macau and elsewhere. Our ability to monetize these assets will be subject to
market conditions, applicable legislation, the receipt of necessary government approvals and other
factors. If we are unable to profitably operate and/or monetize these real estate assets, we will
have to seek alternative sources of capital to refinance in part our construction loans and for
other investment capital. These alternative sources of capital may not be available on commercially
reasonable terms or at all.





VML may have financial and other obligations to foreign workers managed by its contractors under
government labor quotas.

The Macau government has granted VML a quota to permit it to hire foreign workers. VML has
effectively assigned the management of this quota to its contractors for the construction of The
Venetian Macao, Four Seasons Macao and other Cotai Strip projects. VML, however, remains ultimately
liable for all employer obligations relating to these employees, including for payment of wages and
taxes and compliance with labor and workers’ compensation laws. VML requires each contractor to
whom it has assigned the management of part of its labor quota to indemnify VML for any costs or
liabilities VML incurs as a result of such contractor’s failure to fulfill employer obligations.
VML’s agreements with its contractors also contain provisions that permit it to retain some
payments for up to one year after the contractors complete work on the projects. We cannot assure
you that VML’s contractors will fulfill their obligations to employees hired under the labor quotas
or to VML under the indemnification agreements, or that the amount of any indemnification payments
received will be sufficient to pay for any obligations VML may owe to employees managed by
contractors under VML’s quotas. Until we make final payments to our contractors, we have offset
rights to collect amounts they may owe us, including amounts owed under the indemnities relating to
employer obligations. After we have made the final payments, it may be more difficult for us to
enforce any unpaid indemnity obligations.

The transportation infrastructure in Macau may need to be expanded to meet increased visitation in
Macau.

Macau is in the process of expanding its transportation infrastructure to service the
increased number of visitors to Macau. If the planned expansions of transportation facilities to
and from Macau are delayed or not completed, and Macau’s transportation infrastructure is
insufficient to meet the demands of an increased volume of visitors to Macau, the desirability of
Macau as a gaming and tourist destination, as well as the results of operations of our Macau
properties, could be negatively impacted.

We are currently not required to pay corporate income taxes on our casino gaming operations in
Macau. This tax exemption expires at the end of 2013.

We have had the benefit of a corporate tax exemption in Macau, which exempts us from paying
corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games. We will continue to
benefit from this tax exemption through the end of 2013. We cannot assure you that this tax
exemption will be extended beyond the expiration date and we do not expect this tax exemption to
apply to our non-gaming activities.

Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons that may disrupt operations.

Macau is susceptible to severe typhoons. Macau consists of a peninsula and two islands off the
coast of mainland China. On some occasions, typhoons have caused a considerable amount of damage to
Macau’s infrastructure and economy. In the event of a major typhoon or other natural disaster in
Macau, our business may be severely disrupted and our results of operations could be adversely
effected. Although we have insurance coverage with respect to these events, we cannot assure you
that our coverage will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against all direct and indirect costs,
including loss of business, that could result from substantial damage to, or partial or complete
destruction of, our Macau properties or other damage to the infrastructure or economy of Macau.

Our Singapore concession can be terminated under certain circumstances without compensation to us,
which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.

The Development Agreement between MBS and the STB contains events of default which could
permit the STB to terminate the agreement without compensation to us. If the Development Agreement
is terminated, we could lose our right to open and operate the Marina Bay Sands and our investment
in Marina Bay Sands could be lost.

For a more complete description of the Singapore gaming regulatory requirements applicable to
beneficial owners of our voting securities, see “Item 1 — Business — Regulation and Licensing —
Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board.”

An outbreak of highly infectious disease could adversely affect the number of visitors to our
facilities and disrupt our operations, resulting in a material adverse effect on our financial
condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Outbreaks of highly infectious diseases, such as the highly contagious form of atypical
pneumonia known as severe acute respiratory syndrome (or SARS), avian flu and, more recently, swine
flu, has resulted in a decrease in travel to and from, and economic activity in, affected regions,
including Macau. Potential future outbreaks of highly infectious diseases may adversely affect the
number of visitors to our operating properties and our other properties we are currently
developing. Furthermore, an outbreak might disrupt our ability to adequately staff our business and
could generally disrupt our operations. If any of our customers or employees is suspected of having
contracted certain highly contagious diseases, we may be required to quarantine these customers or
employees or the affected areas of our facilities and temporarily suspend part or all of our
operations at affected facilities. Any new
outbreak of such a highly infectious disease could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.







