ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Note: A glossary of
terms used in this Form 10-K appears at the end of this Item 1.

GENERAL

We are a world leading design software and services company, offering customers productive business solutions through powerful technology
products and services. We serve customers in the architecture, engineering and construction; manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment industries. Our sophisticated software products enable our customers to experience their ideas before
they are real by allowing them to create and document their designs and to visualize, simulate and analyze real-world performance early in the design process by creating digital prototypes. These capabilities allow our customers to optimize and
improve their designs, help save time and money, improve quality and foster innovation. Our software products are sold globally, both directly to customers and through a network of resellers and distributors.

Segments

We are
organized into four reportable operating segments:



•Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (“PSEB”), which accounted for 37% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011,



•Architecture, Engineering and Construction (“AEC”), which accounted for 29% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011,



•Manufacturing (“MFG”), which accounted for 24% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011; and,



•Media and Entertainment (“M&E”), which accounted for 10% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011.







A summary of our net revenue and results of operations for our business segments is found
in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Our PSEB, AEC and MFG segments
derive revenue from the sale of licenses for software products and services to customers who design, build, manage or own building, manufacturing and infrastructure projects. The principal software products of these segments include the following:



•general design software, including AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT (horizontal design products), which accounted for 33% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011,



•discipline-specific design software, including AutoCAD-based products (vertical design products), which accounted for 15% of our net revenue in fiscal
2011, and



•model-based design software, including Autodesk Inventor products, Autodesk Revit products, AutoCAD Civil 3D, and Autodesk Moldflow which accounted for
30% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011.

In addition to software products, the PSEB, AEC and MFG segments
offer a range of services including consulting, support and training, largely dedicated to enhancing our ability to sell licenses to our software products.

Our M&E segment derives revenue from the sale of licenses of software products to creative professionals, post-production facilities, and broadcasters for a variety of applications, including feature
films, television programs, commercials, music and corporate videos, interactive game production, web design and interactive web streaming. In addition, our animation products produced by our M&E segment are often used by customers of products
from our other segments for the visualization of their designs.

Corporate Information

We were incorporated in California in April 1982 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 1994. Our principal executive office is
located at 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, California 94903 and the telephone number at that address is (415) 507-5000. Our internet address is www.autodesk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report
on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are
available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of our web site at www.autodesk.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.

PRODUCTS

The principal
product offerings from Autodesk’s different segments are as follows:

PSEB

Our PSEB segment includes our horizontal design product, AutoCAD. Our AutoCAD product is a platform product that underpins our vertical
design product offerings for all the industries we serve. For example, our AEC and MFG segments offer tailored versions of AutoCAD software for the industries they serve. Our AutoCAD product also provides a platform for our developer partners to
build custom solutions for a range of diverse design-oriented markets. PSEB’s revenue primarily includes revenue from sales of licenses of our horizontal design products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT. The segment’s principal product offerings
included the following during fiscal 2011:







·AutoCAD

AutoCAD software, which is our largest revenue-generating
product, is a customizable and extensible computer-aided design (CAD) application for professional design, drafting, detailing, and visualization. AutoCAD software provides digital tools that can be used independently and in conjunction with other
specific applications in fields ranging from construction to manufacturing, civil engineering and process plant design.

·AutoCAD LT

AutoCAD LT software is purpose built for professional drafting and detailing. AutoCAD LT includes
document sharing capability without the need for software customization or certain advanced functionality found in our AutoCAD product. Users can share all design data with team members who use our AutoCAD product or other Autodesk products built on
AutoCAD. AutoCAD LT software is our second largest revenue-generating product.

AEC

Autodesk’s AEC software products help to improve the way building, civil infrastructure, process plant and construction projects are
designed, built and managed. A broad portfolio of solutions enables greater efficiency, accuracy and sustainability across the entire project lifecycle. Autodesk AEC solutions include advanced technology for building information modeling
(“BIM”), AutoCAD-based design and documentation productivity software, sustainable design analysis applications, and collaboration and data management solutions. BIM, an integrated process for building and infrastructure design, analysis,
documentation and construction, uses consistent, coordinated information to improve communication and collaboration across the extended project team. AEC provides a comprehensive portfolio of BIM solutions that help customers deliver projects faster
and more economically, while analyzing environmental impact. The segment’s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal 2011:

·Autodesk Revit

Purpose-built for BIM, the Autodesk Revit products collect information about a building project and allow this information to be
coordinated across all other representations of the project, so that every drawing sheet, 2D and 3D view and schedule is based on internally consistent and complete information from the same underlying building database. The Autodesk Revit products,
including AutoCAD Revit Architecture Suite, AutoCAD Revit MEP Suite and AutoCAD Revit Structure Suite, provide an intuitive sophisticated model-based design and documentation system for architects; mechanical, electrical and plumbing (MEP)
engineers; structural engineers; design-build teams; and other design and building industry professionals.

·AutoCAD Civil 3D

AutoCAD Civil 3D products provide a surveying, design, analysis, and documentation solution for civil engineering, including land development, transportation, and environmental projects. Using a
model-centric approach that automatically updates documentation as design changes are made, AutoCAD Civil 3D products enable civil engineers, designers, drafters, and surveyors to significantly boost productivity and deliver higher-quality designs
and construction documentation faster. With AutoCAD Civil 3D products, the entire project team works from the same consistent, up-to-date model so they stay coordinated throughout all project phases.

·AutoCAD Architecture

Designed for architects and built on the AutoCAD platform, AutoCAD Architecture software
includes powerful Architecture industry-specific tools to gain efficiency and improve coordination.







·AutoCAD Map 3D

AutoCAD Map 3D software provides direct access to
data needed for infrastructure planning, design and management activities. AutoCAD Map 3D software helps professionals working on transportation, land development, water, and power projects to more easily create, manage and analyze design geographic
information system (“GIS”) and asset data.

MFG

Our MFG segment provides manufacturers in automotive and transportation, industrial machinery, consumer products and building products with comprehensive digital prototyping solutions that brings together
design data from all phases of the product development process to develop a single digital model created in Autodesk Inventor software. Our solutions for digital prototyping are scalable, attainable, cost-effective and allow for real-world
simulation, enabling a broad group of manufacturers to realize benefits with minimal disruption to existing workflows. MFG’s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal 2011:

·Autodesk Inventor

Autodesk Inventor software allows manufacturers to go beyond 3D design to digital prototyping by
giving engineers a comprehensive and flexible set of tools for 3D mechanical design, simulation, analysis, tooling, visualization and documentation. With Inventor software, engineers can integrate AutoCAD drawings and model-based design data into a
single digital model, creating a virtual representation of a final product that enables them to validate the form, fit, and function of the product before it is ever built. Digital prototyping with Inventor software enables manufacturers to design,
visualize, and simulate products digitally, helping them to build better products, reduce development costs, and get to market faster.

·AutoCAD Mechanical

AutoCAD Mechanical software is purpose-built to accelerate the mechanical design process. AutoCAD Mechanical software offers users
significant productivity gains and helps save hours of design time by including all the functionality of AutoCAD software, plus comprehensive libraries of standards-based parts and tools for automating common design tasks.

·Autodesk Moldflow

The Autodesk Moldflow family of injection molding simulation software provides tools that help
manufacturers optimize the design of plastic parts and injection molds, and study the injection molding process.

M&E

Our M&E segment is comprised of two product groups: Animation and Creative Finishing. Animation products are sold as software only and
provide tools for digital sculpting, modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing for design visualization, visual effects and games production. Creative Finishing products are primarily sold as turnkey solutions for editing, finishing
and visual effects design, and color grading. Principal product offerings in our M&E segment’s Animation and Creative Finishing product groups included the following during fiscal 2011:

Animation

·Autodesk 3ds Max

Autodesk 3ds Max software provides 3D modeling, animation and rendering solutions that enable
game developers, design visualization professionals and visual effects artists to digitally create realistic images, animations and complex scenes and to digitally communicate abstract or complex mechanical, architectural, engineering and
construction concepts.







·Autodesk Maya

Autodesk Maya software provides 3D modeling,
animation, effects, rendering and compositing solutions that enable film and video artists, game developers and design visualization professionals to digitally create engaging, lifelike images, realistic animations and simulations, and extraordinary
visual effects.

Creative Finishing

·Autodesk Flame, Autodesk Smoke, Autodesk Lustre and
Autodesk Flare

Autodesk Flame software is an interactive real-time design, finishing, grading and visual effects solution
for supervised post-production. Autodesk Smoke software is a non-linear and non-compressed online editing, effects and finishing software application and is used in commercials, music videos, corporate video, film as well as broadcast design
projects. Autodesk Lustre software is a high-performance color grading solution used by artists for creative look development and final color and lighting effects for both film and television. Autodesk Flare software is a software solution that
offers the compositing capabilities of Flame contributing to faster project completion.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND INTRODUCTION

The technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change in computer hardware, operating systems and
software. In addition, our customers’ requirements and preferences rapidly evolve, as do their expectations of the performance of our software. To keep pace with these changes, we maintain a vigorous program of new product development to
address demands in the marketplace for our products. We dedicate considerable technical and financial resources to research and development to further enhance our existing products and to create new products and technologies. Research and
development expenditures were $496.2 million or 25% of fiscal 2011 net revenue, $457.5 million or 27% of fiscal 2010 net revenue and $576.1 million or 25% of fiscal 2009 net revenue. Our software is primarily developed internally; however, we also
use independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. Additionally, we acquire products or technology developed by others by purchasing or licensing products and technology from third parties. We continually
review these investments in an effort to ensure that we are generating sufficient revenue or gaining a competitive advantage to justify their costs.

The majority of our research and product development is performed in the United States, China, Singapore and Canada. However, we employ experienced software developers in many of our other locations.
Translation and localization of our products are performed in a number of local markets, principally Singapore and Switzerland. We generally localize and translate our products into German, French, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Japanese, Korean and
simplified and traditional Chinese.

We plan to continue to manage significant product development operations internationally
over the next several years. We believe that our ability to conduct research and development at various locations throughout the world allows us to optimize product development, lower costs, and integrate local market knowledge into our development
activities. We continually assess the significant costs and challenges, including intellectual property protection, against the benefits of our international development activities.

In addition, our business strategy has historically depended in part on our relationships with a network of over 3,500 third-party
developers who develop and sell their own products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers.

For further discussion regarding risks from our product development and introduction efforts, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”







MARKETING AND SALES

Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions, the Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa
(“EMEA”); and Asia Pacific (“APAC”). Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of
domestic and international sales offices. Fiscal 2011 net revenue in the Americas, EMEA and APAC was $701.5 million, $782.8 million and $467.5 million, respectively. We intend to continue to make our products available in foreign languages. We
believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue may have an adverse effect on our business in
those countries and our overall financial performance. A summary of our financial information by geographic location is found in Note 13, “Segments,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our international operations and sales
subject us to a variety of risks; see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.

We also work directly
with reseller and distributor sales organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers and peripherals manufacturers in cooperative advertising, promotions and trade-show presentations. We employ mass-marketing techniques such as Web
casts, seminars, telemarketing, direct mailings, advertising in business and trade journals and social media. We have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to
the use of our products.

In addition to sales of new software licenses, we generate revenue through our maintenance program
and upgrade pricing options. These choices are available for a majority of our products and offer our customers two alternative means of migrating to the most recent version of our products.

Under the maintenance program, known by our user community as the Autodesk Subscription Program, customers who own a perpetual use
license for the most recent version of the underlying product are able to purchase maintenance that provides them with unspecified upgrades when-and-if-available and are able to download e-Learning courses and receive online support over a one year
or multi-year maintenance service period. Revenue from our maintenance program is reported separately on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and is referred to throughout this document as maintenance revenue.

Upgrade pricing offers customers who are not on our maintenance program an opportunity to purchase upgrades to the most current version
of the same product at current available prices, but only to the extent that they are still on an Autodesk-supported version of our product. An existing customer, whether or not on maintenance, also has the option to upgrade, for a premium fee, to a
different, vertical or model-based design







product, which generally has a higher price; we refer to this as a crossgrade. The cost of a crossgrade is less than the cost of purchasing a new license. During most of fiscal 2011, customers
could upgrade or crossgrade from the three previous software releases at a percentage of a full license. Revenue from upgrades and crossgrades are reported on our Consolidated Statements of Operations in “License and other.”

Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and
reseller networks. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business with any one of our major distributors or large resellers could harm our business; see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.

CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORT

We provide technical support and training to customers through a leveraged support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific needs. Our customers rely primarily on the
resellers and distributors from which they purchased licenses to our products for technical support; however, we do provide certain direct support for some of our customers. We support our resellers and distributors through technical product
training, sales training classes, the Internet and telephone. We also provide online support directly to our customers through our maintenance program. There are also a number of user group forums in which customers are able to share information.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

We offer education programs and specially priced software licensing options tailored for educational institutions, students, and faculty to train the next generation of users. We also offer classroom
support, including standardized curricula developed by educators, instructor development, and a rich assortment of online learning resources. Users are trained on our products at educational institutions, reducing the cost of training for our
customers.

DEVELOPER PROGRAMS

One of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This
approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide marketing, sales, technical support and programming tools to developers who develop add-on
applications for our products. Over 3,500 developers in the Autodesk Developer Network create interoperable products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers.

BACKLOG

We typically
ship products shortly after receipt of an order, which is common in the software industry. Our aggregate backlog is primarily comprised of deferred revenue. Deferred revenue consists primarily of deferred maintenance revenue from our maintenance
program. To a lesser extent, deferred revenue consists of deferred license and other revenue derived from collaborative project management services, consulting services and deferred license sales. Backlog also includes current software license
product orders which have not yet shipped. The category of current software license product orders which we have not yet shipped consists of orders from customers with approved credit status for currently available software products and may include
both orders with current ship dates and orders with ship dates beyond the current fiscal period.

Aggregate backlog was $615.4
million at January 31, 2011, of which $587.9 million was deferred revenue and $27.5 million related to current software license product orders which had not yet shipped at the end of the fiscal year. Aggregate backlog was $542.5 million at
January 31, 2010, of which $516.5 million was deferred revenue and $26.0 million related to current software license product orders which had not yet shipped at the end of the fiscal year. Deferred revenue increased over the prior year
primarily due to an increase in new and renewal maintenance contracts during fiscal 2011.







COMPETITION

The markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid change. We strive to increase our competitive separation by investing in research and development, allowing us to bring new
products to market and create exciting new versions of existing products that offer compelling efficiencies for our customers. We also compete through investments in marketing and sales to more effectively reach new customers and better serve
existing customers.

Our competitors range from large, global, publicly traded companies to small, geographically focused
firms to solutions produced in-house by their users. Our primary global competitors in these segments include Adobe Systems Incorporated, ANSYS, Inc., Bentley Systems, Incorporated, Dassault Systèmes S.A. and its subsidiary Dassault
Systèmes SolidWorks Corp., Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI), Google Inc., Intergraph Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hexagon AB, Nemetschek AG, Parametric Technology Corporation, and Siemens Product Lifecycle
Software, Inc.

Our M&E segment also competes with a wide range of different companies from large, global, publicly-traded
companies to small private entities. Large organizations that produce products that compete in some or all of our markets include Adobe Systems Incorporated, Apple Inc., Avid Technology, Inc., SONY Corporation and Thomson. The media and
entertainment market is highly fragmented with complex interdependencies between many of the larger businesses. As a result, some of our competitors also own subsidiaries that are our customers or our partners in developing or bringing to market
some of our solutions. In addition to traditional competitors in developed economies, we encounter new competitors in emerging economies.

The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing power with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry.
The design software market is characterized by vigorous competition in each of the vertical markets in which we compete, both from existing competitors and by entry of competitors with innovative technologies. Competition is increasingly enhanced by
consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies and the possibility that competitors in one vertical segment may enter other vertical segments that we serve. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have
greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in these industries are likely to continue to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in
price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of risks regarding competition.

We believe that our future results depend largely upon our abilities to better serve customers by offering new products, whether by
internal development or acquisition, and to continue to provide existing product offerings that compete favorably with respect to ease of use, reliability, performance, range of useful features, continuing product enhancements, reputation, price and
training.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSES

We maintain an active program to legally protect our investment in technology through intellectual property rights. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, copyright,
trademark and trade secret protections, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. The nature and extent of legal protection associated with each such intellectual property right depends on, among other things, the type of intellectual
property right and the given jurisdiction in which such right arises. We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business, including each of our segments.

Nonetheless, our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or
challenged. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries where our products are distributed do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. Enforcement of intellectual property rights against alleged infringers
can sometimes lead to costly litigation and counterclaims. Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business.







From time to time, we receive claims alleging infringement of a third party’s
intellectual property rights, including patents. Disputes involving our intellectual property rights or those of another party have in the past and may in the future lead to, among other things, costly litigation or product shipment delays, which
could harm our business.

We retain ownership of software we develop. All software is licensed to users and primarily provided
in object code pursuant to either shrink-wrap, embedded or on-line licenses, or signed license agreements. These agreements contain restrictions on duplication, disclosure and transfer.

We believe that because of the limitations of laws protecting our intellectual property and the rapid, ongoing technological changes in
both the computer hardware and software industries, we must rely principally upon software engineering and marketing skills to maintain and enhance our competitive market position.

While we have recovered some revenue resulting from the unauthorized use of our software products, we are unable to measure the full
extent to which piracy of our software products exists. We believe, however, that software piracy is and can be expected to be a persistent problem that negatively impacts our revenue and financial results.

In addition, through various licensing arrangements, we receive certain rights to intellectual property of others. We expect to maintain
current licensing arrangements and to secure licensing arrangements in the future, as needed and to the extent available on reasonable terms and conditions, to support continued development and sales of our products and services. Some of these
licensing arrangements require or may require royalty payments and other licensing fees. The amount of these payments and fees may depend on various factors, including but not limited to: the structure of royalty payments, offsetting considerations,
if any, and the degree of use of the licensed technology.

See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion
of risks related to protecting our intellectual property.

PRODUCTION AND SUPPLIERS

Production of our PSEB, AEC, MFG and certain M&E software products involves duplication of the software media and, for certain
products, the printing of user manuals. The purchase of media and the transfer of the software programs onto media for distribution to customers are performed by us and by licensed subcontractors. Media for our products such as DVDs and USB flash
drives are available from multiple sources. We offer our maintenance customers an electronic software download option for selected product updates. Customers who choose electronic fulfillment receive the latest version of the software from our
vendor’s secure servers. For certain of our products, user manuals are made available by request only as we work toward reducing our cost of shipping and production as well as the use of natural resources. User manuals and packaging materials
are produced to our specifications by outside sources. Production is either performed in leased facilities operated by us or by independent third-party contractors. To date, we have not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the
production of our software and documentation.

EMPLOYEES

As of January 31, 2011, we employed approximately 6,800 people. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign countries, our employees are
represented by work councils. We have never experienced any work stoppages and believe our employee relations are good. Reliance upon employees in other countries entails various risks that possible government instability or regulation unfavorable
to foreign-owned businesses could negatively impact our business in the future.







BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

Over the past three years, we acquired new technology or supplemented our technology by purchasing businesses focused in specific markets or industries. For the three years ended January 31, 2011,
2010 and 2009, we acquired a number of companies, including the following companies that have a significant impact on our business:



Date of closingCompanyDetailsNovember 2009PlanPlatform Ltd. (“PlanPlatform”)The PlanPlatform acquisition accelerates our software as a service technology platform and provided a design team with knowledge of web-based design applications. PlanPlatform has
been incorporated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to the PSEB segment.January 2009ALGOR, Inc. (“ALGOR”)The ALGOR acquisition enhanced our digital prototyping solutions with new simulation and analysis capabilities such as thermal and fluid flow analysis. ALGOR has been incorporated
into, and the related goodwill was assigned to the MFG segment.November 2008SoftimageThe Softimage acquisition provided technology for the film, television and games markets. Softimage has been incorporated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to the M&E
segment.June 2008Moldflow Corporation (“Moldflow”)Moldflow software solutions are used for the design and engineering of injection-molded plastic parts. The acquisition of Moldflow added simulation and optimization capabilities to
our digital prototyping solution portfolio. Moldflow has been incorporated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to the MFG segment.

GLOSSARY OF TERMS

Horizontal design products—Autodesk’s
AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products, which serve as the platform upon which our vertical design products are based. Our horizontal design products are primarily developed by the PSEB segment. These products include our core design applications and can
be used across a number of industries and disciplines. In the past we have referred to these products as 2D horizontal products. We have modified that reference to more accurately reflect these products’ functionality and general design nature.

Vertical design products—Autodesk’s vertical design software, including AutoCAD Architecture, AutoCAD
Mechanical and AutoCAD Map 3D, are built upon Autodesk’s AutoCAD product and are enhanced with industry or discipline-specific functionality. In the past we have referred to these products as 2D vertical products. We have modified that
reference to more accurately reflect these products’ functionality.

Model-based design
products—Autodesk’s model-based design products, Autodesk Revit products, Autodesk Inventor products, AutoCAD Civil 3D, Moldflow and Autodesk Navisworks products. In the past we have referred to these products as 3D model-based design
products. We have modified that reference to more accurately reflect these products’ functionality and conform it to the descriptions of our other product types, horizontal design products and vertical design products.

BIM (Building Information Modeling)—BIM describes a model-based technology linked with a database of project information, and
is the process of generating and managing information throughout the life cycle of a building. BIM is used as a digital representation of the building process to facilitate exchange and interoperability of information in digital formats.

Digital prototyping—Digital prototyping allows designers, architects and engineers to analyze, simulate and visualize a
design using a digital or virtual model rather than a physical model.







Upgrade and crossgrade—In an upgrade, a customer pays an incremental fee
at currently available prices toward the purchase of a new version of the same product; the license to the previous version of the product is terminated. In a crossgrade, a customer pays an incremental fee at currently available prices toward the
purchase of a different product; the license to the previous product is terminated.

Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal
2012, we will provide new classifications of our product revenue results. The following are the categories that we will report—“Flagship,” “Suites,” and “New and Adjacent.” We will no longer report revenue metrics
on model-based design, horizontal, or vertical products.

Flagship—Autodesk Flagship products are our core
standalone horizontal, vertical and model-based design products. Flagship includes the following products: 3ds Max, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD vertical products, Civil 3D, Inventor products (standalone), Maya, Plant 3D and Revit products
(standalone).

Suites—Autodesk design Suites are a combination of products that target a specific user
objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective. Suites include the following products classes: AutoCAD Design Suites, Educational/Academic Suites, Entertainment Creation Suites, Factory Design
Suites, Inventor Family Suites, Plant Design Suites and Revit Family Suites.

New and Adjacent—Autodesk New
and Adjacent products include Autodesk’s new product offerings as well as products that are not included in Flagship or Suites. New and Adjacent includes the following services and products: Algor products, Alias Design products, Autodesk
Consulting, Buzzsaw, Constructware, Consumer products, Creative Finishing products, Moldflow products, Navisworks, Vault products and all other products.







