ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-K appears at the end of this Item 1.



GENERAL



We are a global leader in design software and services, offering customers productive business solutions through powerful technology products and services. We serve customers in the architecture, engineering and construction; manufacturing; and digital media, consumer, and entertainment industries. Our sophisticated software products enable our customers to experience their ideas before they are real. Customers are able to imagine, design, and create their ideas by visualizing, simulating and analyzing real-world performance early in the design process by creating and manipulating digital prototypes. These capabilities allow our customers to foster innovation, optimize and improve their designs, save time and money, improve quality, communicate intentions, and collaborate with others. Our professional software products are sold globally, both directly to customers and through a network of resellers and distributors.  Additionally, we sell a line of consumer products for digital art, personal design and creativity, and home design.  These products are sold over the Internet and in various digital storefronts, including the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store.



Segments



We report based on four reportable operating segments:



•Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (“AEC”), which accounted for35%of our net revenue in fiscal2015;



•Platform Solutions and Emerging Business (“PSEB”), which accounted for32%of our net revenue in fiscal2015;



•Manufacturing (“MFG”), which accounted for27%of our net revenue in fiscal2015; and



•Media and Entertainment (“M&E”), which accounted for6%of our net revenue in fiscal2015.



2015 Form 10-K  4








A summary of our net revenue and results of operations for our business segments is found in Note13, “Segments,” in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements.



Our AEC, PSEB, and MFG segments derive revenue from the sale of licenses and subscriptions for software products and services to customers who design, build, and own buildings, infrastructures, and manufactured products.  In addition to software products, the AEC, PSEB, and MFG segments offer a range of services, including consulting, support, and training, largely dedicated to enhancing our ability to sell licenses and subscriptions to our software products. Our M&E segment derives revenue from the sale of licenses and subscriptions for software products to creative professionals, post-production facilities, and broadcasters for a variety of applications, including feature films, television programs, commercials, music and corporate videos, interactive game production, web design, and interactive web streaming. In addition, our animation products produced by our M&E segment are often used by customers of products from our other segments for the visualization of their designs.



The principal products and services of these segments include the following:



•Flagship products, which accounted for approximately48%of our net revenue in fiscal2015, are our core standalone horizontal, vertical, and model-based design products including AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD Mechanical, AutoCAD Civil 3D, AutoCAD Map, AutoCAD Architecture, 3ds Max, and Maya.



•Suites, which accounted for approximately36%of our net revenue in fiscal2015, are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective, including Autodesk Building Design Suites, Autodesk Product Design Suites, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suites, and AutoCAD Design Suites.



•New and Adjacent products, which accounted for approximately16%of our net revenue in fiscal2015, are new product offerings as well as products that are not considered flagship or suites, including Moldflow, Alias Design, Autodesk Creative Finishing products, and Vault.



Corporate Information



We were incorporated in California in April 1982 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 1994. Our principal executive office is located at 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, California 94903, and the telephone number at that address is (415) 507-5000. Our internet address is www.autodesk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of our web site at www.autodesk.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The public may also read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330.



PRODUCTS



The principal product offerings from Autodesk’s different segments are as follows:



AEC



Our AEC software products help to improve the way building, civil infrastructure, process plant and construction projects are designed, built, and managed. A broad portfolio of solutions enables greater efficiency, accuracy, and sustainability across the entire project lifecycle. Our AEC solutions include advanced technology for building information modeling (“BIM”), AutoCAD-based design and documentation productivity software, sustainable design analysis applications, collaboration, and project management solutions. BIM, an integrated process for building and infrastructure design, analysis, documentation, and construction, uses consistent, coordinated information to improve communication and collaboration between the extended project team. AEC provides a comprehensive portfolio of BIM solutions that help customers deliver projects faster and more economically, while minimizing environmental impact. The segment’s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal2015:





2015 Form 10-K  5






•Autodesk Building Design Suites



Autodesk Building Design Suites ("BDS") give the power of BIM or CAD, with tools for modeling, visualization, and documentation. With a comprehensive set of tools, BDS gives customers the ability to manage all phases of design and construction. Three editions of BDS are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio.



•Autodesk Revit



Purpose-built for BIM, the Autodesk Revit products collect information about a building project and allow this information to be coordinated across all other representations of the project, so that every drawing sheet, 2D and 3D view and schedule is based on internally consistent and complete information from the same underlying building database. The Autodesk Revit products, including AutoCAD Revit Architecture Suite, AutoCAD Revit MEP Suite, and AutoCAD Revit Structure Suite, provide an intuitive, sophisticated, model-based design and documentation system for architects; mechanical, electrical, and plumbing ("MEP") engineers; structural engineers; design-build teams; and other design and building industry professionals.



•Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suites



The Infrastructure Design Suites are the BIM for Infrastructure design solution that combines intelligent, model-based tools to help the user to gain more accurate, accessible, and actionable insight. With unique access to the Autodesk infrastructure software portfolio, users can benefit throughout the execution and lifecycle of transportation, land, and water projects. Three editions of Infrastructure Design Suites are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio.



•AutoCAD Civil 3D



AutoCAD Civil 3D products provide a surveying, design, analysis, and documentation solution for civil engineering, including land development, transportation, and environmental projects. Using a model-centric approach that automatically updates documentation as design changes are made, AutoCAD Civil 3D products enable civil engineers, designers, drafters, and surveyors to significantly boost productivity and deliver higher-quality designs and construction documentation faster. With AutoCAD Civil 3D products, the entire project team works from the same consistent, up-to-date model so they stay coordinated throughout all project phases.



•AutoCAD Map 3D



AutoCAD Map 3D software provides direct access to data needed for infrastructure planning, design, and management activities. AutoCAD Map 3D software helps professionals working on transportation, land development, water, and power projects to more easily create, manage, and analyze design geographic information system and asset data.



PSEB



Our PSEB segment includes our design product, AutoCAD. Our AutoCAD product is a platform product that underpins our design product offerings for all the industries we serve. For example, our AEC and MFG segments offer tailored versions of AutoCAD software for the industries they serve. Our AutoCAD product also provides a platform for our developer partners to build custom solutions for a range of diverse design-oriented markets. PSEB's revenue primarily includes revenue from sales of licenses of our design products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, as well as the AutoCAD Design Suite and many other design and consumer products. The segment’s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal2015:



•AutoCAD



AutoCAD software, which is our largest revenue-generating product, is a customizable and extensible computer-aided design (CAD) application for professional design, drafting, detailing, and visualization. AutoCAD software provides digital tools that can be used independently and in conjunction with other specific applications in fields ranging from construction to manufacturing, civil engineering, and process plant design.





2015 Form 10-K  6






•AutoCAD LT



AutoCAD LT software is purpose built for professional drafting and detailing. AutoCAD LT includes document sharing capability without the need for software customization or certain advanced functionality found in our AutoCAD product. Users can share all design data with team members who use our AutoCAD product or other Autodesk products built on AutoCAD. AutoCAD LT software is our second largest revenue-generating product.



MFG



Our MFG segment provides manufacturers in automotive and transportation, industrial machinery, consumer products and building products with comprehensive digital prototyping solutions that bring together product data from all phases of the product development through production process to develop a single digital model created in Autodesk Inventor software. Our solutions for digital prototyping are scalable, attainable, cost-effective, and allow for real-world simulation, enabling a broad group of manufacturers to realize benefits with minimal disruption to existing workflows. MFG’s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal2015:



•Autodesk Product Design Suites



Autodesk Product Design Suites ("PDS") is a comprehensive solution for digital prototyping, delivering 3D design, visualization and simulation tools to complete the entire engineering process. The digital prototyping capabilities of PDS can help customers design better products, reduce development costs and get to market faster. Two editions of PDS are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio.



•Autodesk Inventor



Autodesk Inventor allows manufacturers to go beyond 3D design to digital prototyping by giving engineers a comprehensive and flexible set of tools for 3D mechanical design, simulation, analysis, tooling, visualization, and documentation. With Autodesk Inventor, engineers can integrate AutoCAD drawings and model-based design data into a single digital model, creating a virtual representation of a final product that enables them to validate the form, fit, and function of the product before it is ever built.



•AutoCAD Mechanical



AutoCAD Mechanical software is purpose-built to accelerate the mechanical design process. AutoCAD Mechanical software offers users significant productivity gains and helps save hours of design time by including all the functionality of AutoCAD software, in addition to comprehensive libraries of standards-based parts and tools for automating common design tasks.



•Autodesk Moldflow



The Autodesk Moldflow family of injection molding simulation software provides tools that help manufacturers optimize the design of plastic parts and injection molds, and study the injection molding process.



M&E



Our M&E segment consists of two product groups: Animation and Creative Finishing. Animation products are sold as software only and provide tools for digital sculpting, modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing for design visualization, visual effects and games production. Creative Finishing products are primarily sold as turnkey solutions for editing, finishing and visual effects design and color grading. Principal product offerings in our M&E segment’s Animation and Creative Finishing product groups included the following during fiscal2015:



Animation



•Autodesk 3ds Max



Autodesk 3ds Max software provides 3D modeling, animation, and rendering solutions that enable game developers, design visualization professionals and visual effects artists to digitally create realistic images, animations, and complex scenes and to digitally communicate abstract or complex mechanical, architectural, engineering, and construction concepts.





2015 Form 10-K  7






•Autodesk Maya



Autodesk Maya software provides 3D modeling, animation, effects, rendering and compositing solutions that enable film and video artists, game developers, and design visualization professionals to digitally create engaging, lifelike images, realistic animations and simulations, extraordinary visual effects, and full length animated feature films.



Creative Finishing



•Autodesk Flame, Autodesk Smoke, and Autodesk Lustre



Autodesk Flame software is an interactive real-time design, finishing, grading, and visual effects solution for supervised post-production. Autodesk Smoke software is a non-linear and non-compressed online editing, effects, and finishing software application and is used in commercials, music videos, corporate video, film as well as broadcast design projects. Autodesk Lustre software is a high-performance color grading solution used by artists for creative look development and final color and lighting effects for both film and television.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND INTRODUCTION



The technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change in computer hardware, operating systems, and software. In addition, our customers’ requirements and preferences rapidly evolve, as do their expectations of the performance of our software. To keep pace with these changes, we maintain a vigorous program of new product development to address demands in the marketplace for our products.



The software industry is undergoing a transition from the personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing. In fiscal 2015, we continued to successfully implement a strategic transition of our business model announced in fiscal 2014. We accelerated our move to the cloud and expanded our flexible product license offerings. We introduced Desktop Subscription (formerly known as rental) for a broader range of our product portfolio, expanded our new token-based licensing program to more enterprise customers, and continued to expand our industry leading cloud based offerings. These offerings are designed to give our customers even more value and flexibility to use our products, and also to attract new types of customers, such as project-based users and small businesses that have more variable needs. Further, to support our transition, we have discontinued licensing upgrades effective March 6, 2015 and, on February 4, 2015, we also announced that new commercial seats of most standalone software products will be available only by desktop subscription beginning February 1, 2016. Collectively, these measures helped increase many of our performance metrics including billings, deferred revenue, and subscriptions, which will result in more predictable and ratable revenue over time.



We dedicate considerable technical and financial resources to research and development to further enhance our existing products and to create new products and technologies. For example, in fiscal 2015, we announced that we would create Spark,  a 3D printing software platform for developers to facilitate the advancement of 3D printing technology and begin manufacturing and selling Ember, an Autodesk-branded 3D printer.  The Ember 3D printer became available for consumer purchase in February 2015.



Research and development expenditures were $725.2 millionor29%of fiscal2015net revenue, $611.1 millionor27%of fiscal2014net revenue and $600.0 millionor26%of fiscal2013net revenue. Our software is primarily developed internally; however, we also use independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. Additionally, we acquire products or technology developed by others by purchasing or licensing products and technology from third parties. We continually review these investments in an effort to ensure that we are generating sufficient revenue or gaining a competitive advantage to justify their costs.



The majority of our research and product development is performed in the United States, China, Singapore, and Canada. However, we employ experienced software developers in many of our other locations. Translation and localization of our products are performed in a number of local markets, principally Singapore and Switzerland. We generally localize and translate our products into German, French, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Japanese, Korean, and simplified and traditional Chinese.



We plan to continue to manage significant product development operations internationally over the next several years. We believe that our ability to conduct research and development at various locations throughout the world allows us to optimize product development, lower costs, and integrate local market knowledge into our development activities. We continually assess the significant costs and challenges, including intellectual property protection, against the benefits of our international development activities.



2015 Form 10-K  8








In addition, our business and our customers benefit from our relationships with a network of over4,000third-party developers who develop and sell their own products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers.



For further discussion regarding risks from our product development and introduction efforts, seeItem 1A, “Risk Factors.”



MARKETING AND SALES



We license or sell our products and services globally, primarily through indirect channels consisting of distributors and resellers.  To a lesser extent we also transact directly with a select set of customers who are primarily large corporations. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure, where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. We have a network of approximately

2,200

resellers and distributors worldwide. For fiscal


, approximately

83%

of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers, and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. We anticipate that our channel mix will change to support our new business model and plan to proactively work with our channel partners to ensure a smooth transition. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our reseller channel with our business strategies. Sales through our largest distributor, Tech Data Corporation and its affiliates, accounted for

25%

,

24%

, and

23%

of our net revenue for fiscal years


,


, and


, respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between us and Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. No other distributor, reseller, or direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue.



Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions, the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa (“EMEA”), and Asia Pacific (“APAC”). Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of domestic and international sales offices. Fiscal2015net revenue in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC was $898.0 million(36%), $980.0 million(39%), and $634.2 million(25%), respectively. We intend to continue to make our products available in foreign languages. We believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions and currency exchange rates in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. A summary of our financial information by geographic location is found in Note13, “Segments,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks; seeItem 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.



We also work directly with reseller and distributor sales organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers, and peripherals manufacturers in cooperative advertising, promotions, and trade-show presentations. We employ mass-marketing techniques such as webcasts, seminars, telemarketing, direct mailings, sponsorships, advertising in business and trade journals, and social media. We have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products.



In addition to sales of new perpetual use software licenses, we generate revenue through several subscription-based business models.  The largest is our maintenance program, under which customers who own a perpetual use license for the most recent version of the underlying product are able to purchase maintenance that provides them with unspecified upgrades when-and-if-available and are able to download e-Learning courses and receive online support over a one year or multi-year maintenance service period. We also offer more flexible term-based license offerings to our customers.



Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller networks. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business with any one of our major distributors or large resellers could harm our business; seeItem 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.





2015 Form 10-K  9






CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORT



We provide technical support and training to customers through a leveraged support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific needs. Our customers rely primarily on the resellers and distributors from which they purchased licenses to our products for technical support; however, we do provide certain direct support for some of our customers. We support our resellers and distributors through technical product training, sales training classes, the Internet, and telephone. We also provide online support directly to our customers through our maintenance program. There are also a number of user group forums in which customers are able to share information.



EDUCATION, SUSTAINABILITY, AND PHILANTHROPIC PROGRAMS



Education



Our Education initiatives inspire the youth of today to imagine, design, and create a better world by offering free educational licenses of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and educational institutions.



We help fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages and collaborate with educators, institutions, and partners that encourage design learning and further Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) education objectives.  Within the secondary and postsecondary global education markets, our learning content and standards based curriculum enable tomorrow’s workforce to graduate industry-ready, with marketable design skills that are in high demand.   Whether these students are future professional designers or lifelong design hobbyists, our full portfolio of professional-grade and personal design products introduces students and educators at all levels to software that can unleash their creativity.



Sustainability



To help our customers imagine, design, and create a better world, our Sustainability Programs focus our efforts where we can have the greatest impact: providing sustainability solutions, delivering sustainable design learning and training opportunities, expanding access to technology, and leading by example with our sustainable business practices. This benefits our customers, who use our products and services to improve design decisions that have substantial and long-term environmental impacts. Through access to free resources including the Autodesk Sustainability Workshop, Building Performance Analysis Certificate ("BPAC") Program and building design courses, students and professionals are learning how to use design technology and analytics to make better, more sustainable design decisions during the design process.



Philanthropy



The Autodesk Foundation (the "Foundation"), a privately funded 501(c)(3) charity organization established and solely funded by us, leads our philanthropic efforts. The purpose of the Foundation is twofold: to support employees to create a better world at work, at home, and in the community by matching employee’s volunteer time and/or donations to nonprofit organizations; and to support organizations and individuals using design to drive positive social and environmental impact. In the latter case, we use grant funding, software donations, and training to accomplish this goal, selecting the most impactful and innovative organizations around the world, thus, leading to a better future for our planet. On our behalf, the Foundation also administers a discounted software donation program to nonprofit organizations, social and environmental entrepreneurs, and others who are developing design solutions that will shape a more sustainable future.



DEVELOPER PROGRAMS



One of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide marketing, sales, technical support, and programming tools to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. Over4,000developers in the Autodesk Developer Network create interoperable products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers.



COMPETITION



The markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid change. We strive to increase our competitive separation by investing in research and development, allowing us to bring new products to market and create exciting new versions of existing products that offer compelling efficiencies for our customers. We also compete through investments in marketing and sales to more effectively reach new customers and better serve existing customers.



2015 Form 10-K  10








Our competitors include large, global, publicly traded companies; small, geographically focused firms; startup firms; and solutions produced in-house by their users. Our primary global competitors in the PSEB, AEC, and MFG segments include Adobe Systems Incorporated, ANSYS, Inc., AVEVA Group plc, Bentley Systems, Incorporated, Dassault Systèmes S.A. and its subsidiary Dassault Systèmes SolidWorks Corp., Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI), Intergraph Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hexagon AB, MSC Software Corporation, Nemetschek AG, PTC, 3D Systems, Seimens PLM, and Trimble Navigation Limited.



Our M&E segment also competes with a wide range of different companies from large, global, publicly-traded companies to small private entities. Large organizations that produce products that compete in some or all of our markets include Adobe Systems Incorporated, Apple Inc., Avid Technology, Inc., SONY Corporation, and Technicolor, among others. The media and entertainment market is highly fragmented with complex interdependencies between many of the larger businesses. As a result, some of our competitors also own subsidiaries that are our customers or our partners in developing or bringing to market some of our solutions. In addition to traditional competitors in developed economies, we encounter new competitors in emerging economies.



The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing power with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The design software market is characterized by vigorous competition in each of the vertical markets in which we compete, both from existing competitors and by entry of new competitors with innovative technologies. Competition is increasingly enhanced by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies and the possibility that competitors in one vertical segment may enter other vertical segments that we serve. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources than we do. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in these industries are likely to continue to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins, and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. SeeItem 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of risks regarding competition.



We believe that our future results depend largely upon our ability to better serve customers by offering new products, including cloud and mobile computing products, whether by internal development or acquisition, and to continue to provide existing product offerings that compete favorably with respect to ease of use, reliability, performance, range of useful features, continuing product enhancements, reputation, price, and training.



INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSES



We maintain an active program to legally protect our investment in technology through intellectual property rights. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions. The nature and extent of legal protection associated with each such intellectual property right depends on, among other things, the type of intellectual property right and the given jurisdiction in which such right arises. We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business, including each of our segments.



Nonetheless, our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws and enforcement of the laws of various foreign countries where our products are distributed do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. Enforcement of intellectual property rights against alleged infringers can sometimes lead to costly litigation and counterclaims. Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business.



From time to time, we receive claims alleging infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights, including patents. Disputes involving our intellectual property rights or those of another party have in the past and may in the future lead to, among other things, costly litigation or product shipment delays, which could harm our business.



We retain ownership of software we develop.  Desktop software is licensed to users pursuant to ‘click through’ or signed license agreements containing restrictions on duplication, disclosure, and transfer.  Cloud software and associated services are provided to users pursuant to on-line or signed terms of service agreements containing restrictions on access and use.





2015 Form 10-K  11






We believe that because of the limitations of laws protecting our intellectual property and the rapid, ongoing technological changes in both the computer hardware and software industries, we must rely principally upon software engineering and marketing skills to continually maintain and enhance our competitive market position.



While we have recovered some revenue resulting from the unauthorized use of our software products, we are unable to measure the full extent to which piracy of our software products exists. We believe, however, that software piracy is and can be expected to be a persistent problem that negatively impacts our revenue and financial results. We believe that our transition from perpetual use software licenses to a subscription-based business model combined with the change from desktop to cloud-based computing will shift the incentives and means by which software is pirated.



In addition, through various licensing arrangements, we receive certain rights to intellectual property of others. We expect to maintain current licensing arrangements and to secure licensing arrangements in the future, as needed and to the extent available on reasonable terms and conditions, to support continued development and sales of our products and services. Some of these licensing arrangements require or may require royalty payments and other licensing fees. The amount of these payments and fees may depend on various factors, including but not limited to: the structure of royalty payments, offsetting considerations, if any, and the degree of use of the licensed technology.



SeeItem 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of risks related to protecting our intellectual property.



PRODUCTION AND SUPPLIERS



The production of our PSEB, AEC, MFG, and certain M&E software products involves duplication of the software media. The purchase of media and the transfer of the software programs onto media for distribution to customers are performed by us and by licensed subcontractors. Media for our products such as DVDs and USB flash drives are available from multiple sources. For certain products and countries, we offer customers an electronic software download option for both initial product fulfillment as well as product updates for maintenance subscribers. Customers who choose electronic fulfillment receive the latest version of the software from our vendor’s secure servers. For certain cloud-based products, we use a combination of co-located hosting facilities as well as infrastructure-as-a-service providers like Amazon Web Services. Packaging materials are produced to our specifications by outside sources. Production is performed in leased facilities operated by independent third-party contractors. To date, we have not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the production of our software and documentation.



EMPLOYEES



As ofJanuary 31, 2015, we employed approximately8,823people. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. In certain foreign countries, our employees are represented by work councils. We have never experienced any work stoppages and believe our employee relations are good. Reliance upon employees in other countries entails various risks and changes in these foreign countries, such as government instability or regulation unfavorable to foreign-owned businesses, which could negatively impact our business in the future.





2015 Form 10-K  12






ACQUISITIONS



Over the past three years, we acquired new technology or supplemented our technology by purchasing businesses or certain technology related assets focused in specific markets or industries. For the fiscal years endedJanuary 31, 2015,2014, and2013, we acquired a number of companies and certain technology related assets, some of which were accounted for as business combinations.  The following were key acquisitions for fiscal years2015,2014, and2013:







Date of closingCompanyDetails

June 2014Shotgun Software Inc. ("Shotgun")The acquisition of Shotgun provides a cloud-based production management solution that enables digital studios to track, schedule, review, and collaborate on projects and images. Shotgun was integrated, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk's M&E reportable segment.

May 2014Within Technologies Limited ("Within”)The acquisition of Within will accelerate Autodesk’s development of tools and technologies for advanced manufacturing, including 3D printing.  Within was integrated into, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk’s PSEB reportable segment.

February 2014Delcam plc (“Delcam”)The acquisition of Delcam provides Autodesk a range of design, manufacturing and inspection software that enables automated CADCAM solutions for a variety of industries, ranging from aerospace to toys and sports equipment.  Delcam was integrated into, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk's MFG reportable segment.

November 2013Graitec SA (“Graitec”)The acquisition of Graitec (including Graitec’s Advance Steel and Advance Concrete product lines, and associated employees) enhanced Autodesk’s offerings for structural engineering and expanded our portfolio of technology for BIM for structural fabrication and detailing.  Graitec was integrated into Autodesk’s AEC segment.

December 2012PI-VR GmbH ("PI-VR")The PI-VR acquisition brings sophisticated visualization solutions that will strengthen and enhance our expertise in and offerings for automotive visualization.  PI-VR has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the MFG segment.

October 2012Qontext ("Qontext")The Qontext acquisition provides us with an enterprise business and social collaboration platform which extends our reach into design networks via contextual workflows.  This also expands our expertise in cloud and social networking by supplementing existing knowledge in cloud, web, and mobile development. Qontext has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the PSEB segment.

August 2012Socialcam, Inc. ("Socialcam")The Socialcam acquisition strengthens our ability to make our product line more social, and deliver more mobile/web oriented products. In addition, the acquisition integrated with Autodesk 360 to further provide collaboration features to our professional customers. Socialcam has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the PSEB segment.

June 2012Vela Systems, Inc. ("Vela")The Vela acquisition provides a platform to deliver project information to the point of construction. Vela, integrated with Navisworks, augments the model-based data created in Revit, establishing a bi-direction and visual link between model elements and relevant information - streamlining the information management process from design through construction to hand-over and into operations.  In addition, this acquisition delivers model-based construction via mobile and cloud. Vela has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, the AEC segment.



BACKLOG



We typically ship products shortly after receipt of an order, which is common in the software industry. Our backlog consists of current software license product orders which have not yet shipped. The category of current software license product orders which we have not yet shipped consists of orders from customers with approved credit status for currently available software products.



Backlog was $40.4 millionatJanuary 31, 2015compared to $19.7 millionatJanuary 31, 2014. The actual amount of backlog at any particular time may not be a meaningful indicator of future business prospects as this amount is impacted by a number of factors not related to future trends or events such as the order fulfillment process, the method of software delivery or the linearity of our business within the fiscal period.



GLOSSARY OF TERMS



Billings—Amounts billed to customers during the current fiscal period net of any partner incentives or other discounts.





2015 Form 10-K  13






BIM (Building Information Modeling)—BIM describes a model-based technology linked with a database of project information, and is the process of generating and managing information throughout the life cycle of a building. BIM is used as a digital representation of the building process to facilitate exchange and interoperability of information in digital formats.



Constant currency growth rates—We attempt to represent the changes in the underlying business operations by eliminating fluctuations caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as eliminating hedge gains or losses recorded within the current and comparative periods. Our constant currency methodology removes all hedging gains and losses from the calculation.



Digital prototyping—Digital prototyping allows designers, architects and engineers to analyze, simulate, and visualize a design using a digital or virtual model rather than a physical model.



Flagship—Autodesk flagship products are our core design products. Flagship includes the following products: 3ds Max, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD vertical products (such as AutoCAD Architecture and Mechanical), Civil 3D, Inventor products (standalone), Map 3D, Maya, and Revit products (standalone).



License and Other revenue—License and other revenue consists of two components: (1) all forms of product license revenue and (2) other revenue. Product license revenue includes software license revenue from the sale of seat licenses, term-based licenses from our desktop subscription and enterprise offerings, and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed.



Maintenance—Our maintenance program provides our customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue over the term of the agreements, generally between one and three years.



New and Adjacent—Autodesk new and adjacent products include Autodesk's new product offerings as well as products that are not included in flagship or suites. New and adjacent includes the following services and products: Autodesk Alias Design products, Autodesk 360 products, Autodesk Consulting, Autodesk Simulation, Autodesk Simulation Multiphysics, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk CF Design, Autodesk Constructware, Autodesk Consumer products, Autodesk Creative Finishing products, Delcam products, Autodesk Moldflow products, Autodesk Navisworks, Autodesk Scaleform, Autodesk Vault products, and all other products.



Suites—Autodesk design suites are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective. Our current design and creation suites include: AutoCAD Design Suite, Autodesk Building Design Suite, Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, Autodesk Factory Design Suite, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite, Autodesk Plant Design Suite, and Autodesk Product Design Suite.



Subscription revenue—Autodesk subscription revenue consists of three components:  (1) maintenance revenue from our software products; (2) maintenance revenue from our term-based desktop subscription and enterprise offerings; and (3) revenue from our cloud service offerings.



Total Subscriptions—Consists of subscriptions from our maintenance, desktop, cloud service and enterprise license offerings that are active as of the quarter end date.  For certain cloud based and enterprise license offerings, subscriptions represent the monthly average activity reported within the last three months of the quarter end date.  Total subscriptions do not include data from education offerings, consumer product offerings, certain Creative Finishing product offerings, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, and third party products.  Subscriptions acquired with the acquisition of a business are captured once the data conforms to our subscription count methodology and when added, may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation.





2015 Form 10-K  14








