
10-K
CVS FORM 10-K







================================================================================

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    ---------
                                    FORM 10-K
                                    ---------

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                          Commission file number 1-1011
                                 CVS CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
                              --------------------


               Delaware                                05-0494040
               --------                                ----------
    (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
    incorporation or organization)

             One CVS Drive                               02895
       Woonsocket, Rhode Island                          -----
       ------------------------                        (Zip Code)
(Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (401) 765-1500
                                 --------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

      Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:

                                                      Name of each exchange
          Title of each class                         on which registered
          -------------------                         --------------------
Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share             New York Stock Exchange

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: None

                             ----------------------

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock* held by
non-affiliates** of the registrant (without admitting that any person whose
shares are not included in this calculation is an affiliate) on March 17, 1999
was approximately $19,895,631,210, based on the closing price on the New York
Stock Exchange.

As of March 17, 1999, the registrant had 390,601,264 shares of common stock
outstanding.

*    Does not include 5,224,367 outstanding shares of Series One ESOP
     Convertible Preference Stock. As of March 17, 1999, each share of ESOP
     Preference Stock was entitled to 2.3 votes per share on all matters
     submitted to a vote of the holders of common stock, voting with the common
     stock as a single class.
**   Only voting stock held by directors and executive officers is excluded.

                           ---------------------------

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The following documents (or specified parts thereof) are incorporated by
reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K as indicated: CVS Corporation's
1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated by reference into Part II:
Items 5, 6, 7 and 8 and Part IV: Item 14 and CVS Corporation's 1999 Proxy
Statement is incorporated by reference into Part III: Items 10, 11, 12 and 13.

================================================================================





                                









                                                        PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS





- ------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------
Overview of CVS'    CVS Corporation is a leader in the chain drugstore industry
Business            in the United States, with revenues of $15.3 billion in
                    1998. As of December 31, 1998, we were the largest drugstore
                    chain in the nation in terms of store count, operating 4,122
                    stores in 24 states in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest
                    and Southeast regions and in the District of Columbia. Our
                    stores are well positioned and operate in 66 of the top 100
                    drugstore markets in the country. We now hold the number one
                    market share in six of the top ten drugstore markets. We are
                    also among the industry leaders in terms of store
                    productivity and operating profit margin.

                    Pharmacy Operations ~ A primary focus of our operations is
                    our pharmacy business. In 1998, total pharmacy sales
                    increased 17.0% to $8.8 billion, representing 58% of total
                    sales for the year, compared to 55% of total sales in 1997.
                    As of December 31, 1998, we were the largest drugstore chain
                    in the nation in terms of prescriptions filled and pharmacy
                    sales, dispensing over 251 million prescriptions
                    (approximately 10.5% of the U.S. retail prescription
                    market). We believe that our pharmacy operations will
                    continue to represent a critical part of our business and
                    strategy due to favorable trends. These trends include an
                    aging American population, greater responsibility being
                    borne by Americans for their healthcare, an increasing
                    demand for retail formats that provide easy access and
                    convenience, discovery of new and better drug therapies and
                    the need for cost effective healthcare solutions.

                    Our pharmacy business also benefits from an "independent
                    file buy" program, in which we purchase prescription files
                    from independent pharmacies. During 1998, we purchased
                    approximately 350 prescription files, each containing an
                    average weekly prescription count of nearly 560. We believe
                    that independent file buys are productive investments. In
                    many cases, the independent pharmacist will move to CVS,
                    thereby providing continuity in the pharmacist-patient
                    relationship.

                    Front Store Operations ~ In addition to prescription drugs
                    and services, we offer a broad selection of general
                    merchandise, presented in a well-organized fashion, in
                    stores that are designed to be customer-friendly, inviting
                    and easy to shop. Merchandise categories include:
                    over-the-counter drugs, greeting cards, film and
                    photofinishing services, beauty and cosmetics, seasonal
                    merchandise and convenience foods. We also offer over 1,400
                    products under the CVS private label brand, which
                    represented about 11% of our front store sales in 1998. In
                    1998, front store sales, which are generally higher margin
                    than pharmacy sales, increased 3.9% to $6.5 billion,
                    representing 42% of total sales for the year, compared to
                    45% of total sales in 1997.

                    CVS Corporation is a Delaware corporation. Our principal
                    executive offices are located at One CVS Drive, Woonsocket,
                    Rhode Island 02895, telephone (401) 765-1500. As of December
                    31, 1998, CVS and its subsidiaries had about 97,000
                    employees.

Strategic           In November 1997, we completed the final phase of our
Restructuring       comprehensive strategic restructuring program, first
Program             announced in October 1995 and subsequently refined in May
                    1996 and June 1997. The strategic restructuring program
                    included: (i) the sale of Marshalls, Kay-Bee Toys, Wilsons,
                    This End Up and Bob's Stores, (ii) the spin-off of Footstar,
                    Inc., which included Meldisco, Footaction and Thom McAn,
                    (iii) the initial and secondary public offerings of Linens
                    `n Things and (iv) the elimination of certain corporate
                    overhead costs.

                    For more information about our strategic restructuring
                    program, see Note 4 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial
                    Statements" on page 30 of our 1998 Annual Report to
                    Shareholders that is incorporated by reference into Item 8
                    "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."







Merger with         On May 29, 1997, we completed a merger with Revco D.S. Inc.,
Revco D.S., Inc.    pursuant to which 120.6 million shares of CVS common stock
                    were exchanged for all the outstanding common stock of
                    Revco. We also converted Revco's stock options into options
                    to purchase 6.6 million shares of CVS common stock. The
                    merger of CVS and Revco was a tax-free reorganization that
                    we treated as a pooling of interests for accounting
                    purposes. Accordingly, we have restated our historical
                    consolidated financial statements and footnotes to include
                    Revco as if it had always been owned by CVS.

                    The merger with Revco was a milestone event for our company
                    in that it more than doubled our revenues and made us the
                    nation's number one drugstore retailer in terms of store
                    count. The merger brought us into high-growth, contiguous
                    markets in the Mid-Atlantic, Southeast and Midwest regions
                    of the United States.

Merger with         On March 31, 1998, we completed a merger with Arbor Drugs,
Arbor Drugs, Inc.   Inc., pursuant to which 37.8 million shares of CVS common
                    stock were exchanged for all the outstanding common stock of
                    Arbor. We also converted Arbor's stock options into options
                    to purchase 5.3 million shares of CVS common stock. The
                    merger of CVS and Arbor was also a tax-free reorganization
                    that we treated as a pooling of interests for accounting
                    purposes. Accordingly, we have restated our historical
                    consolidated financial statements and footnotes to include
                    Arbor as if it had always been owned by CVS.

                    The merger with Arbor made us the market share leader in
                    metropolitan Detroit, the nation's fourth largest retail
                    drugstore market and strengthened our position as the
                    nation's top drugstore retailer in terms of store count and
                    retail prescriptions dispensed.

PharmaCare          In order to provide patients with the best possible care at
                    the lowest cost, we follow an integrated healthcare approach
                    that brings together industry participants such as
                    physicians, pharmaceutical companies, managed care providers
                    and pharmacies. Our primary efforts in this area include the
                    operation and expansion of PharmaCare, our prescription
                    benefit management subsidiary, and the creation of strategic
                    alliances with healthcare partners.

                    PharmaCare provides a full range of prescription benefit
                    management services to managed care and other organizations.
                    These services include plan design and administration,
                    formulary management, mail order pharmacy services, claims
                    processing and generic substitution. In December 1997,
                    PharmaCare strengthened its services network by merging with
                    Revco's prescription benefit management subsidiary, Rx
                    Connections, and assuming Revco's mail order pharmacy
                    operations. At the end of 1998, PharmaCare managed
                    healthcare services for about 6 million people through a
                    preferred national pharmacy network of over 40,000
                    pharmacies. In addition, PharmaCare plays an increasing role
                    in healthcare management through integrated partnerships
                    with several large managed care providers.

                    One feature that sets PharmaCare apart from other
                    prescription benefit management providers is its proprietary
                    Clinical Information Management System ("CIMS"). CIMS is a
                    unique communication system that links physicians, patients
                    and pharmacists to facilitate clinical management. It is a
                    leading formulary management tool for directing utilization
                    to the most clinically appropriate and cost-effective
                    medications. More than 30,000 physicians are currently using
                    CIMS, which began with only 500 physicians in 1994.

Relationships with  The growth in managed care has substantially increased the
Managed Care        use of prescription drugs. Managed care providers have (i)
Providers           made the cost of prescription drugs more affordable to a
                    greater number of people and (ii) supported prescription
                    drug therapy as an alternative to more expensive forms of
                    treatment, such as surgery. Payments by third party
                    providers under prescription drug plans represented 84% of
                    total pharmacy sales in 1998, compared to 81% in 1997. 







                    In a typical third party payment plan, we contract with a
                    third party payor (such as an insurance company, a
                    prescription benefit management company, a governmental
                    agency, a private employer, a health maintenance
                    organization or other managed care provider) that agrees to
                    pay for all or a portion of a customer's eligible
                    prescription purchases in exchange for reduced prescription
                    rates. Although third party payment plans provide a high
                    volume of prescription drug sales, these sales typically
                    generate lower gross margins than other sales due to the
                    cost containment efforts of third party payors and the
                    increasing competition among pharmacies for this business.

                    The cost containment efforts and increased competition has
                    also caused a continued decline of gross margins on third
                    party sales. To address this trend, we have dropped a number
                    of third party programs that fell below our minimum
                    profitability standards. In the event this trend continues
                    and we elect to drop additional programs and/or decide not
                    to participate in future programs that fall below our
                    minimum profitability standards, we may not be able to
                    sustain our current rate of sales growth.

CVS Stores          We are the nation's largest chain drugstore company based on
                    store count, operating 4,122 stores in 24 states and the
                    District of Columbia as of December 31, 1998. The majority
                    of our existing stores range in size from approximately
                    8,000 to 10,000 square feet, although most new stores are
                    based on our 10,125 square foot freestanding prototype,
                    which typically includes a drive-thru pharmacy.

                    As of December 31, 1998, 23% of our stores were freestanding
                    as opposed to being located in strip shopping center sites.
                    Over 700 CVS stores were operated on an extended hour or
                    24-hour basis and 900 stores offered one-hour photo service.
                    We also operated 360 stores with drive-thru pharmacies, and
                    plan to add over 400 more in 1999. During 1998, we opened
                    382 new stores, including 198 relocations, and in 1999 we
                    expect to open approximately 440 new stores, including about
                    300 relocations. Net selling space for our 4,122 stores was
                    30.6 million square feet at the end of 1998.

                    The following is a breakdown by state of the locations of
                    CVS stores at December 31, 1998:


Store Development   The addition of new stores has played, and will continue to
                    play, a major role in our continued growth. As we open new
                    stores, we maintain our objective of securing a strong
                    position in each market that our stores serve. Our strong
                    market positions provide us with several important
                    advantages, including (i) an ability to save on advertising
                    and distribution costs and (ii) an ability to attract
                    managed care providers, who want to provide their members
                    with convenient access to pharmacy services. 







                    In addition, we are actively seeking to relocate many of our
                    strip shopping center locations to freestanding sites. We
                    expect that relocations of existing shopping center stores
                    to freestanding locations will account for about two-thirds
                    of store openings over the next several years. Because of
                    their more convenient locations and larger size, relocated
                    stores have typically realized significant improvements in
                    customer count and revenues, driven largely by increased
                    sales of higher margin front store merchandise. We believe
                    our relocation program offers a significant opportunity for
                    future growth as approximately 23% of our existing stores
                    are freestanding. We currently expect to have approximately
                    35% of our stores in freestanding locations by the end of
                    1999. Our long-term goal is to have 70-80% of our stores
                    located in freestanding sites. We cannot, however, guarantee
                    that future store relocations will achieve similar results
                    as those historically achieved. See "Cautionary Statement
                    Concerning Forward-Looking Statements" below.

                    We also have an active remodeling and remerchandising
                    program which seeks to remodel 20% of our existing stores
                    and remerchandise another 20% each year. During 1998, we
                    also completed the process of converting all 1,900 retained
                    Revco stores into the CVS store format, converted Arbor
                    stores to CVS' accounting and store systems and closed
                    Arbor's Troy, Michigan corporate headquarters facility.

                    We believe that continuing to grow our store base and
                    locating stores in desirable geographic markets are
                    essential components to competing effectively in the current
                    managed care environment. As a result, we believe that our
                    store development program is an important part of our
                    ability to maintain our leadership position in the chain
                    drugstore industry.

Information Systems We have invested significantly in information systems to
                    enable us to deliver an exceptional level of customer
                    service while lowering costs and increasing operating
                    efficiency. Our client-server based systems permit rapid and
                    flexible system development to meet changing business needs,
                    while our scaleable technical architecture enables us to
                    efficiently expand our network to accommodate new stores.

                    Pharmacy Systems ~ The Rx2000 computer system enables our
                    pharmacists to fill prescriptions more efficiently, giving
                    the pharmacists more time to spend with customers. The
                    system facilitates the management of third party healthcare
                    plans and enables us to provide managed care providers with
                    a level of information which we believe is unmatched by our
                    competitors. By analyzing the data captured by the Rx2000
                    computer system, we and our managed care partners are able
                    to evaluate treatment outcomes with an eye toward improving
                    care and containing costs.

                    We also continue to make significant progress on our next
                    generation Rx2000 Pharmacy Delivery System, which will
                    reengineer the way we fill prescriptions. The project
                    includes integrated workflow improvements and automated
                    pill-counting machines in high volume stores.

                    During 1997, we implemented Rapid Rx Refill, which enables
                    customers to order prescription refills 24 hours a day using
                    a touch-tone telephone. In just over 18 months after its
                    debut, Rapid Rx Refill now accounts for approximately 50% of
                    refills.

                    Overall, these initiatives are expected to continue to
                    enhance pharmacy productivity, lower the costs to fill
                    prescriptions and improve service by enabling our
                    pharmacists to spend more time with customers.







                    Front Store Systems ~ Our point-of-sale scanning technology
                    has enabled us to develop an advanced retail data warehouse
                    of information. We use this information to quickly analyze
                    data on a store-by-store basis to develop targeted marketing
                    and merchandising strategies. We can also analyze the impact
                    of pricing, promotion and mix on a category's sales and
                    profitability, enabling us to develop tactical merchandising
                    plans for each category by market. We believe that effective
                    category management increases customer satisfaction and that
                    our category management approach has been a primary factor
                    in front store comparable sales gains and improved gross
                    margins.

                    We are also beginning the final phase of a multi-year supply
                    chain initiative which will transform the way we receive,
                    distribute and sell merchandise. Our supply chain
                    initiatives will more effectively link our stores and
                    distribution centers with suppliers to speed the delivery of
                    merchandise to our stores in a manner that both reduces
                    out-of-stock positions and lowers our investment in
                    inventory. The first two phases focused on improving
                    category management and maximizing gross profit through
                    price elasticity and promotional allocations. The final
                    phase will help us to more effectively tailor our product
                    mix in specific markets. We have already begun to experience
                    tangible benefits from our supply chain initiatives and we
                    expect to continue to do so.

Relationships with  We centrally purchase most of our merchandise, including
Suppliers           prescription drugs, directly from manufacturers. This
                    purchasing strategy allows us to take advantage of the
                    promotional and volume discount programs that certain
                    manufacturers offer to retailers. During 1998, about 85% of
                    the merchandise purchased by us was received by one of our
                    distribution centers for redistribution to our stores. The
                    balance of our store merchandise is shipped directly to our
                    stores from manufacturers and distributors at prices
                    negotiated at the corporate level. We believe that the loss
                    of any one supplier or group of suppliers under common
                    control would not materially affect our business.

Customer Service    We strive to provide the highest levels of service to our
                    customers and partners. As a result, we devote considerable
                    time and attention to people, systems and service standards.
                    We emphasize attracting and training friendly and helpful
                    associates to work in our stores and throughout our
                    organization. Each CVS store receives a formal customer
                    service evaluation twice per year, based on a mystery
                    shopper program, customer letters and calls, and market
                    research. Our priority on customer service extends into the
                    managed care portion of our business as well. In every
                    market, a Managed Care Service Team ensures that managed
                    care partners receive high levels of service. Our
                    pharmacists consistently rank among the best in the industry
                    on measurements of trust, relationship-building and
                    accessibility. This high level of service and expertise has
                    played a key role in the growth of our pharmacy operations.

Government          Our pharmacies and pharmacists must be licensed by the
Regulation          appropriate state boards of pharmacy. Our pharmacies and
                    distribution centers are also registered with the Federal
                    Drug Enforcement Administration. Because of these licensing
                    and registration requirements, we must comply with various
                    statutes, rules and regulations, a violation of which could
                    result in a suspension or revocation of these licenses or
                    registrations. Under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
                    of 1990, our pharmacists are required to offer counseling,
                    without charge, to customers covered by Medicare about
                    medication, dosage, delivery system, potential side effects
                    and other information deemed significant by our pharmacists.
                    Our pharmacists routinely offer such counseling to all
                    customers.

                    We also market products under various trademarks and
                    tradenames which have been registered in the United States.
                    Our rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they
                    are used or registered.







Competition         The retail drugstore business is highly competitive. We
                    believe that we compete principally on the basis of: (i)
                    store location and convenience, (ii) customer service and
                    satisfaction, (iii) product selection and variety and (iv)
                    price. We experience active competition not only from
                    independent and other chain drugstores, but also from health
                    maintenance organizations, hospitals, mail order
                    organizations, supermarkets, discount drugstores and
                    discount general merchandisers. The deep discount drug
                    segment has grown significantly over the past several years
                    as drug chains, and food, discount and specialty retailers
                    have entered the business. Major retail companies now
                    operate deep discount drugstores in the most competitive
                    retailing markets. "Combo" stores, which consist of grocery,
                    drugstore and several other operations under the same roof,
                    have also grown significantly over the past several years as
                    consumers have become more attracted to one-stop shopping.
                    Retail mass merchandisers with prescription departments have
                    also grown in popularity.

Cautionary          In this report and in the documents incorporated by
Statement Concern-  reference (as well as in other public filings, press
ing Forward-        releases and oral statements made by Company management), we
Looking Statements  make forward-looking statements about future events that
                    have not yet happened. These statements are subject to risks
                    and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include
                    information concerning: 


                    o    our future results of operations, cost savings and
                         synergies following the Revco and Arbor mergers;

                    o    our ability to elevate the performance level of Revco
                         stores following the Revco merger;

                    o    our ability to continue to achieve significant sales
                         growth;

                    o    our belief that we can continue to improve operating
                         performance by relocating existing in-line stores to
                         freestanding locations;

                    o    our ability to continue to reduce selling, general and
                         administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales;
                         and

                    o    the ability of the Company and our key vendors and
                         suppliers to successfully manage issues presented by
                         the Year 2000.

                    In addition, statements that include the words "believes",
                    "expects", "anticipates", "intends", "estimates" or similar
                    expressions are forward-looking statements. For all of these
                    statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for
                    forward-looking statements contained in the Private
                    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

                    You should understand that the following important factors,
                    in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report and
                    in the documents which are incorporated by reference (and in
                    our other public filings, press releases and oral statements
                    made by Company management), could affect the future results
                    of CVS and could cause those results to differ materially
                    from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:

                    What Factors Could Affect the Outcome of Our Forward-Looking
                    Statements?

                    Industry and Market Factors

                    o    changes in economic conditions generally or in the
                         markets served by CVS;

                    o    future federal and/or state regulatory and legislative
                         actions affecting CVS and/or the chain drugstore
                         industry;

                    o    consumer preferences and spending patterns;







                    o    competition from other drugstore chains, from
                         alternative distribution channels such as supermarkets,
                         membership clubs, mail order companies and internet
                         companies (e-commerce) and from other third party
                         plans; and

                    o    the continued efforts of health maintenance
                         organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy
                         benefit management companies and other third party
                         payors to reduce prescription drug costs.

                    Operating Factors

                    o    our ability to combine the businesses of CVS, Revco and
                         Arbor and maintain current operating performance levels
                         during the integration period(s) and the challenges
                         inherent in diverting the Company's management focus
                         and resources from other strategic opportunities and
                         from operational matters for an extended period of time
                         during the integration process(es);

                    o    our ability to implement new computer systems and
                         technologies;

                    o    our ability to continue to secure suitable new store
                         locations on favorable lease terms as we seek to open
                         new stores and relocate a portion of our existing store
                         base to freestanding locations;

                    o    the creditworthiness of the purchasers of former
                         businesses whose store leases are guaranteed by CVS as
                         described under Item 2. "Properties" below;

                    o    our ability to continue to purchase inventory on
                         favorable terms;

                    o    our ability to attract, hire and retain suitable
                         pharmacists and management personnel;

                    o    our ability to establish effective promotional and
                         pricing strategies in the different geographic markets
                         in which we operate; and

                    o    our relationships with suppliers.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

We lease most of our stores under long-term leases that vary as to rental
amounts and payments, expiration dates, renewal options and other rental
provisions. We do not think that any individual store lease is significant in
relation to our overall business. For additional information on the amount of
our rental obligations for retail store leases, see Note 6 of "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements" on page 30 of our 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders that is incorporated by reference into Item 8 "Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data."

Our stores are supported by 10 distribution centers located in Rhode Island, New
Jersey, Virginia, Indiana, Alabama, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, North Carolina,
South Carolina and Michigan, which contain an aggregate of approximately
5,400,000 square feet. In addition, we lease additional space near our
distribution centers to handle certain distribution needs.

We own our corporate headquarters, located in three buildings in Woonsocket,
Rhode Island, which contain an aggregate of approximately 345,000 square feet.
Additionally, a fourth headquarters building, expected to contain approximately
207,000 square feet, is currently under construction on a site adjacent to our
existing corporate headquarters. We also lease approximately 352,000 square feet
in seven office buildings in Rhode Island and Massachusetts.

In addition, in connection with certain business dispositions completed between
1991 and 1997, we continue to guarantee lease obligations for approximately
1,600 former stores. We are indemnified for these guarantee obligations by the
respective purchasers. These guarantees generally remain in effect for the
initial lease term and any extension thereof pursuant to a renewal option
provided for in the lease prior to the time of the disposition. Assuming that
each respective purchaser became insolvent, an event which we believe to be
highly unlikely, management estimates that it could settle these obligations for
approximately $1.1 billion as of December 31, 1998.







ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

From time to time, the Company and its subsidiaries are involved in the
assertion of claims and in litigation incidental to the normal course of
business. In the opinion of management and our independent counsel, we do not
believe that any existing claims or litigation will have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or future
cash flows.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the year ended December 31, 1998.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following is an unnumbered Item in Part I of this report.



In each case, the individual's term of office extends to the date of the board
of directors meeting following the next annual meeting of CVS stockholders. In
addition to the office(s) which they hold in CVS Corporation and CVS Pharmacy,
Inc. as shown above, each of the individuals listed holds various offices in
certain CVS subsidiaries.







                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this item is included in our 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders on page 38 under the caption "Quarterly Financial Information," and
is incorporated into this report by reference.

Since October 16, 1996, the common stock of the Company has been listed on the
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CVS." As of February 22, 1999, the
record date for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, there were 10,500 CVS
stockholders of record. On May 13, 1998, the Company's stockholders approved an
increase in the number of authorized common shares from 300 million to one
billion. Also on that date, the Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one
common stock split, which was effected by the issuance of one additional share
of common stock for each share of common stock outstanding on May 25, 1998. All
share and per share amounts were restated to reflect the effect of the stock
split.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information required by this item is included in our 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders on page 39 under the caption "Five-Year Financial Summary," and is
incorporated into this report by reference.


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

Except for as set forth in the following paragraph, the information required by
this item is included in our 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders on pages 14
through 19 under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations," and is incorporated into this report by
reference.

Recent Development:
On February 11, 1999, we sold 5.50% unsecured senior notes due February 15, 2004
in the aggregate principal amount of $300 million in a private placement.
Proceeds from the notes were used to repay outstanding commercial paper.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We have not entered into any transactions using derivative financial instruments
or derivative commodity instruments and we do not believe that there is any
material market risk exposure with respect to other financial instruments (such
as fixed and variable rate borrowings) which would require disclosure under this
Item.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this item is included in our 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders on pages 20 through 38, and is incorporated into this report by
reference.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

No events have occurred which would require disclosure under this Item.







                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this item, with the exception of the information
relating to our executive officers, which is presented in Part I under
"Executive Officers of the Registrant", appears in our 1999 Proxy Statement on
pages 4 through 6 and page 27 under the captions Item 1: "Biographies of our
Board Nominees" and Item 5: "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
Compliance" and is incorporated into this report by reference.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this item appears in our 1999 Proxy Statement on
pages 7, 8 and 10 through 21 under the captions Item 1: "Director Compensation",
"Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation", "Compensation
Committee Report on Executive Compensation", "Summary Compensation Table",
"Stock Options", "Stock Performance Graph" and "Certain Executive Arrangements"
and is incorporated into this report by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this item appears in our 1999 Proxy Statement on
pages 8 through 10 under the captions Item 1: "Share Ownership of Directors and
Certain Executive Officers" and "Share Ownership of Principal Stockholders" and
is incorporated into this report by reference.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this item appears in our 1999 Proxy Statement on
page 21 under the caption Item 1: "Transactions with Directors and Officers" and
is incorporated into this report by reference.









                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

A.   Financial Statements, Schedules and Exhibits

1.   Financial Statements

The following appear in our 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders at the pages
indicated below and are incorporated into Part II of this report by reference:



2.   Schedules

The following schedule appears on page 17 of this report.

Schedule  II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

We did not include other financial statement schedules because they are not
applicable or the information is included in the financial statements or related
notes.

3.   Exhibits

Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are hereby incorporated by reference to
exhibits or appendices previously filed by the Registrant as indicated in
brackets following the description of the exhibit.










B.   Reports on Form 8-K

On February 9, 1999, the Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K in
connection with CVS' announcement that it privately placed $300 million of 5.50%
unsecured senior notes due 2004 as described in Item 7 above.

On February 11, 1999, the Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K in
connection with CVS' announcement that effective April 14, 1999, Stanley P.
Goldstein, Chairman of the Board of Directors, will retire as chairman although
he will remain a Director. In connection with the retirement, Thomas M. Ryan,
currently President and Chief Executive Officer, will be named Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer and Charles C. Conaway, currently
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will be named President
and Chief Operating Officer.


                       WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION

CVS files annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other
information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). You may read
and copy any reports, statements or other information that we file at the SEC's
public reference rooms in Washington, D.C., New York, New York and Chicago,
Illinois. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the
public reference rooms. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from
commercial document retrieval services and at the web site maintained by the SEC
at "http://www.sec.gov."

The SEC allows us to "incorporate by reference", which means that we can
disclose important information to you by referring you to other documents that
we file with the SEC. The information incorporated by reference is legally
considered to be a part of this report.

We incorporate by reference into Part II (Items 5, 6, 7 and 8) and Part IV (Item
14) specified portions of our 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders. We also
incorporate by reference into Part III (Items 10, 11, 12 and 13) specified
portions of our Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
scheduled to be held on April 14, 1999.

If you are a shareholder, we may have sent you some of the documents
incorporated by reference, but you can obtain any of them through us or the SEC.
Documents incorporated by reference are available from us without charge,
excluding all exhibits unless we have specifically incorporated by reference an
exhibit in this report. Shareholders may obtain documents incorporated by
reference in this report by requesting them in writing or by telephone from:


                                 CVS Corporation
                               Investor Relations
                        670 White Plains Road - Suite 210
                               Scarsdale, NY 10583
                            Telephone: (800) 201-0938







                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


Board of Directors and Shareholders
CVS Corporation:

     Under date of January 27, 1999, we reported on the consolidated balance
sheets of CVS Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, as
contained in the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders. These consolidated
financial statements and our report thereon are incorporated by reference in the
annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended 1998. In connection with
our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also
audited the consolidated financial statement schedule as listed in the
accompanying index. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

     In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

/s/ KPMG LLP
- ------------
KPMG LLP

Providence, Rhode Island
January 27, 1999








                                 CVS CORPORATION
                Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts



(1)  1996 includes a deduction of $21.2 million that relates to the actual
     write-off of certain receivables of former operating businesses that were
     retained by the Company subsequent to the sale of the related operating
     businesses.










                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form
10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                                CVS CORPORATION

Date:  March 25, 1999                           By:  /s/ CHARLES C. CONAWAY
                                                    -----------------------
                                                    Charles C. Conaway
                                                    Executive Vice President and
                                                    Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.










                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


3.2        By-Laws of the Registrant, as amended and restated [Filed
           electronically with SEC only].

10.11(xv)  Form of Collateral Assignment and Executive Life Insurance Agreement
           between Registrant and each of Messrs. Ryan, Conaway, Nelson and
           Merlo [Filed electronically with SEC only].

13         Portions of the 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders of CVS
           Corporation which are specifically designated in this Form 10-K as
           being incorporated by reference. [Filed electronically with SEC
           only].

21         List of Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23         Consent of Independent Auditors.

27         Financial Data Schedule [Filed electronically with SEC only].












