
10-K405
10-K405



- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C. 20549
                           ----------------------

                                  FORM 10-K

                           ----------------------
(Mark One)

/X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997

/ / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

               For the transition period from        to
 
                       Commission file number 1-1011
 
                               CVS CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                          -----------------------

              Delaware                            05-0494040
    (State or other jurisdiction               (I.R.S. Employer
  of incorporation or organization)           Identification No.)

          One CVS Drive
      Woonsocket, Rhode Island                       02895
(Address of principal executive offices)           (Zip Code)

    Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (401) 765-1500 

    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:

  Title of each class                Name of each exchange on which registered
- -----------------------              -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value
  $.01 per share                                New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: None
 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]
 
    The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock* held by
non-affiliates** of the registrant (without admitting that any person whose
shares are not included in such calculation is an affiliate) on March 2, 1998
was approximately $12,669,785,088, based on the last sale price as reported by
the New York Stock Exchange.
 
    As of March 2, 1998, the registrant had 172,557,470 shares of Common 
Stock outstanding.
 
- ---------
 
*   Does not include 5,324,504 outstanding shares of Series One ESOP 
    Convertible Preference Stock ("ESOP Preference Stock"). As of 
    March 2, 1998, each share of ESOP Preference Stock is entitled to 1.2 votes 
    per share on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common 
    Stock.

**  Only voting stock held by directors and executive officers is excluded.



                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
    The following documents (or parts thereof) are incorporated by reference 
into this Annual Report on Form 10-K: certain information required in Part 
II, Items 6, 7 and 8; and Part IV, Item 14 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K 
is incorporated from the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the 
year ended December 31, 1997; certain information required in Part III, Items 
10, 11, 12 and 13 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated by 
reference to the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of 
Stockholders, to be held on May 13, 1998.


                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

    GENERAL

    CVS Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("CVS" or the "Company"), is a
leader in the chain drugstore industry in the United States, with over $12.7
billion in revenue in 1997. Additionally, as of December 31, 1997, the Company
operated 3,888 stores in 24 states in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and
Southeast regions and in the District of Columbia, making CVS one of the largest
drugstore chains in the nation in terms of store count. The Company's stores are
well positioned, operating in 48 of the top 100 drugstore markets in the
country. CVS commands the number one or two share position in approximately 80%
of these markets. CVS also is among the industry leaders in terms of store
productivity and operating profit margin.
 
    A primary focus of the Company's operations is its pharmacy business, which
represented approximately 54% of total sales for the year. In 1997, the Company
dispensed over 225 million prescriptions, making it the largest drugstore chain
in the United States in terms of prescriptions filled and pharmacy sales. The
Company believes that its pharmacy operations will continue to represent a
critical part of its business and strategy due to favorable trends, including an
aging American population, greater responsibility being borne by Americans for
their healthcare, an increasing demand for retail formats that provide easy
access and convenience, discovery of new and better drug therapies, and the need
for cost effective healthcare solutions.
 
    In addition to prescription drugs and services, the Company offers a broad
selection of general merchandise, presented in a well-organized fashion, in
stores that are designed to be warm, inviting and easy to shop. Merchandise
categories include, among other things, over-the-counter drugs, greeting cards,
film and photo-finishing services, beauty and cosmetics, seasonal merchandise
and convenience foods. The Company also offers over 1,300 products under the CVS
private label brand, which accounted for approximately 11% of the Company's
front store sales in 1997. Total front store sales, which are generally higher
margin than pharmacy sales, represented approximately 46% of total sales for the
year.
 
    The Company's principal executive offices are located at One CVS Drive,
Woonsocket, Rhode Island 02895, telephone (401) 765-1500. As of December 31,
1997, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 90,000 employees.
 
    CVS STRATEGIC RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM
 
    In October 1995, the Board of Directors approved a comprehensive
restructuring plan that was the product of a strategic review initiated in 1994.
The purpose of the restructuring plan was, among other things, to enhance
stockholder value by transforming Melville Corporation ("Melville") from a
diversified retailer with a wide range of specialty retail businesses into an
industry-focused retail healthcare company, CVS. The restructuring plan
included, among other things:
 
    (i) the continued operation of CVS (which would include CVS and, initially,
Linens 'n Things and Bob's Stores);
 
    (ii) the disposal of Marshalls, Kay-Bee Toys, Wilsons and This End Up;
 
    (iii) the spinoff of Footstar, Inc. (the holding company for Meldisco,
Footaction and Thom McAn); and
 
    (iv) the elimination of certain corporate overhead costs.
 
    In May 1996, the Board of Directors approved further refinements to the 
restructuring plan. The refinements included: (i) a formal plan to separate 
Linens 'n Things and Bob's Stores from CVS; and (ii) a formal plan to convert 
80 to 100 Thom McAn stores to the Footaction format and to sell or close the 
remaining Thom McAn stores, and thereby exit the Thom McAn business by 
mid-1997.
 
    On November 20, 1996, following shareholder approval, CVS, a newly-formed
Delaware corporation, became the new holding company for Melville (which is a
New York corporation) and its subsidiaries. This was accomplished by merging a



special purpose subsidiary of CVS with and into Melville, with Melville
surviving such merger and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of CVS.
 
    For more information regarding the Company's strategic restructuring 
program, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


    ACQUISITION OF REVCO D.S., INC.
 
    On May 29, 1997, CVS completed its acquisition of Revco D.S., Inc. ("Revco")
pursuant to a stock-for-stock merger that was tax free to Revco's stockholders.
The merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests.
 
    The merger resulted in CVS becoming one of the largest chain drugstore 
companies in the United States based on store count, with approximately 4,000 
stores in 24 states and the District of Columbia. Pursuant to a consent 
decree with the Federal Trade Commission entered into in connection with the 
merger, the Company divested 120 Revco stores during 1997, primarily in the 
Tidewater area of Virginia.
 
    In the merger, each outstanding share of Revco common stock was exchanged
for 0.8842 of a share of CVS common stock, resulting in CVS issuing an aggregate
of approximately 60.3 million shares of its common stock. In addition,
outstanding Revco stock options were converted at the same exchange ratio into
options to purchase approximately 3.3 million shares of CVS common stock.
 
    AGREEMENT TO ACQUIRE ARBOR DRUGS, INC.
 
    On February 8, 1998, CVS entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with
Arbor Drugs, Inc. ("Arbor"). Under the terms of the merger agreement, subject to
satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions, CVS will acquire Arbor in
an exchange of stock that is expected to be accounted for as a pooling of
interests, and to be tax free to Arbor stockholders. If the merger is completed,
Arbor stockholders will receive, for each Arbor share, 0.3182 of a share of 
CVS common stock, resulting in CVS issuing an aggregate of approximately 18.9 
million shares of its common stock.  In addition, outstanding Arbor stock 
options will be converted at the same exchange ratio into options to purchase 
approximately 2.6 million shares of CVS common stock.
 
    Arbor is the leading drugstore chain in southeastern Michigan in terms of
store count and sales volume. The merger would strengthen CVS' position as one
of the nation's leading chain drugstore companies by bringing CVS into a
high-growth, contiguous geographic market where CVS has no existing presence.
 
    The merger is subject to approval by Arbor's shareholders, expiration of 
the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust 
Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and certain other customary closing 
conditions. Subject to satisfying these conditions, management expects to 
complete the merger on or about March 31, 1998.
 

    PHARMACY OPERATIONS AND MANAGED CARE
 
    In 1997, pharmacy sales increased 23.6% to $6.9 billion, representing
approximately 54% of total sales for the year, compared to pharmacy sales of
$5.6 billion in 1996, representing approximately 51% of total sales for such
year. CVS pharmacies fill an average of about 1,200 prescriptions per store per
week, which is significantly higher than the average community pharmacy. The
Company believes that its pharmacy operations will continue to represent a
critical part of its business and strategy due to favorable trends, including an
aging American population, greater responsibility being borne by Americans for
their healthcare, an increasing demand for retail formats that provide easy
access and convenience, discovery of new and better drug therapies, and the need
for cost effective healthcare solutions.
 
    During fiscal 1997, approximately 80% of pharmacy sales were attributable 
to payments by third party providers under prescription drug plans, as 
compared to approximately 76% in 1996. The growth in managed care has 
substantially increased the use of prescription drugs as managed care 
providers have (i) made the cost of prescription drugs more affordable to a 
greater number of people and (ii) supported prescription drug therapy as an 
alternative to more expensive forms of treatment, such as surgery. In a 
typical third party payment plan, the Company has a contract with a third 
party payor, such as an insurance company, a prescription benefit management 



company, a governmental agency, a private employer, a health maintenance 
organization or other managed care provider, which agrees to pay for all or a 
portion of a customer's eligible prescription purchases in exchange for 
reduced prescription rates. Although third party payment plans provide a high 
volume of prescription drug sales, such sales typically generate lower gross 
margins than other prescription drug sales due to the cost containment 
efforts of these large third party payors and the increasing competition 
among pharmacies for this business. During 1997, the top 5 third party 
providers accounted for approximately 36% of pharmacy sales. Any significant 
loss of third party provider business could have a material adverse affect on 
the Company's business and results of operations.
 
    CVS' experience in providing solutions to managed care providers, and its 
existing store base which affords easy access and convenience to consumers, 
are factors that should contribute to the Company's continued ability to 
attract and maintain third party business. In addition, the Company's RX2000 
pharmacy computer system facilitates the management of third party healthcare 
plans and enables CVS to provide managed care providers with a level of 
information which the Company believes is unmatched by competitors. By 
analyzing this data, CVS and its managed care partners are able to evaluate 
treatment outcomes with an eye toward improving care and containing costs. 
The Company's emphasis on customer service extends from the expert advice and 
service that individual customers receive from CVS pharmacists to the managed 
care portion of the Company's business, where Managed Care Service Teams are 
responsible for ensuring the high level of service that CVS' managed care 
partners receive.
 
    The Company's pharmacy business also continues to benefit from an
"independent file buy" program, in which CVS purchases prescription files from
one or more independent pharmacies. During 1997, CVS purchased 190 prescription
files, containing an average weekly prescription count of nearly 500, from
independent pharmacies. The Company believes that independent file buys are
productive investments. In many cases, the independent pharmacist will move to
CVS, thereby providing continuity in the pharmacist-patient relationship.
 
    PHARMACARE AND STRATEGIC HEALTHCARE ALLIANCES
 
    CVS is committed to being part of an integrated healthcare approach that
brings together industry participants such as physicians, pharmaceutical
companies, managed care providers and pharmacies in order to provide patients
with the best possible care at the lowest cost. The Company's efforts to date
have primarily concentrated on two main areas: (i) the operation and expansion
of PharmaCare, the Company's prescription benefit management subsidiary and (ii)
the creation of strategic alliances with healthcare partners.
 
    PharmaCare provides managed care providers a full range of prescription
benefit management services, including plan design and administration, formulary
management, claims processing and generic substitution, with a focus on
providing integrated solutions to the delivery of healthcare. In the three and a
half years since it was established, PharmaCare has grown considerably and, at
the end of 1997, managed healthcare services for more than 5 million people
through a preferred national pharmacy network of approximately 40,000
pharmacies. In December 1997, PharmaCare merged with Revco's prescription
benefit management subsidiary, called Rx Connections, and also assumed Revco's
mail order pharmacy operations, thereby strengthening and broadening
PharmaCare's services network.
 
    One of the features that sets PharmaCare apart from other prescription
benefit management providers is its proprietary Clinical Information Management
System ("CIMS"). CIMS enables CVS pharmacists to work more efficiently with
physicians by facilitating communication and information-sharing, with the
objective of improving patient care and reducing costs. Approximately 20,000
physicians are currently using CIMS, which began with only 500 physicians in
1994. In addition, PharmaCare plays an increasing role in healthcare management
through integrated partnerships with several large managed care providers.
 
    CVS also pursues strategic alliances with healthcare partners to develop
products and services that create new opportunities for revenue and profit
growth. For example, CVS has entered into a joint venture, called CVS Health
Connection, with Pfizer Health Solutions, Inc., a subsidiary of Pfizer, Inc.
Through this partnership, community health screening centers are established in
CVS store settings. The first CVS Health Connection center opened in September
1997 in a New Bedford, Massachusetts CVS store. Harvard Pilgrim Healthcare, one
of the nation's largest and most progressive HMOs, has contracted to offer
health screening services through this center to its members.


    FRONT STORE OPERATIONS
 
    In 1997, front store sales increased 8.8% to $5.8 billion, representing
approximately 46% of total sales for the year, compared to front store sales of
$5.3 billion in 1996, representing approximately 49% of total sales for such
year. The Company's front store merchandising strategies are designed to improve
customer satisfaction, selection and convenience, and establish CVS stores as a
destination for a growing number of front store merchandise categories, such as
greeting cards, photo-finishing, beauty, seasonal merchandise and
over-the-counter drugs. The Company's 10,125 square-foot freestanding prototype
stores have helped to enable the Company to improve store layout, convenience
and selection through the addition of product categories and the enhancement of
assortments within product categories. In addition, over the past several years,
the Company has made significant investments in systems and technology to more
effectively respond to customer needs, manage inventory and control costs.
 
    Through its point-of-sale scanning technology, the Company has developed an
advanced retail data warehouse of information that has enabled CVS to adopt a
category management approach to front end merchandising. Through category
management, CVS works in partnership with major suppliers to refine and tailor
assortments within product categories to the specific purchasing preferences of
customers within each market. Category management enables the Company to analyze
the impact of pricing, promotion and mix on a category's sales and profitability
and develop tactical merchandising plans for each category by market. Among CVS'
key destination categories are over-the-counter drugs, greeting cards, film and
photo-finishing services, beauty and cosmetics and convenience foods.
 
    The Company believes that effective category management increases 
customer satisfaction and that its category management approach has been a 
primary factor in its front store comparable sales gains and improved gross 
margins. In addition, the Company believes that its ability to satisfy 
customers through category management will be enhanced through its 
implementation of supply chain management. Supply chain management is 
designed to more effectively link CVS' stores and distribution centers with 
suppliers to speed the delivery of merchandise to CVS stores in a manner that 
both reduces out-of-stock positions and lowers the Company's investment in 
inventory. The Company expects to see tangible benefits of its supply chain 
management project beginning in 1998.
 
CVS STORES
 
    At December 31, 1997, the Company operated 3,888 stores in 24 states in the
Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Southeast regions and the District of
Columbia, making CVS one of the nation's largest chain drugstore companies based
on store count. CVS stores, which are located primarily in "strip" shopping
centers or in freestanding units, generally range in size from approximately
8,000 to 10,000 square feet, with an average store size of approximately 9,000
square feet. The Company has extended store hours in many locations and, at the
end of 1997, approximately 160 of its stores were operated on a 24-hour basis.
The following is a breakdown by state of the locations of the Company's stores
at the end of 1997:
 

 
    To support growth in its existing stores, the Company has in place an active
remodeling and remerchandising program, which seeks to remodel 20% of the
Company's existing stores each year and to remerchandise another 20% each year.
In addition, as described more fully below, the Company is actively seeking to
relocate many of its strip center locations to freestanding sites. During 1997,



the Company opened 287 new stores, including 116 relocations, and in 1998 
expects to open approximately 300 new stores, including approximately 150 
relocations. During 1997, the Company also began the process of converting 
all retained Revco stores into the CVS store format. The conversion process 
consists of three elements: converting the Revco point-of-sale and pharmacy 
computer systems to CVS' systems, revising the Revco planograms to reflect 
the CVS merchandise mix, and remodeling the Revco stores to the "look and 
feel" of a CVS store. The conversion of Revco's systems has been completed 
and the revision of planograms is expected to be completed during the first 
half of 1998. Approximately 500 Revco stores had been remodeled into the CVS 
"look and feel" as of December 31, 1997, and the Company expects to complete 
the Revco store remodeling project by the end of 1998.
 
    The addition of new stores has played, and will continue to play, a major 
role in the Company's continued growth. As new stores have been opened, the 
Company has maintained its objective of securing strong positions in each 
market that its stores serve. This provides the Company several important 
advantages, including an ability to save on advertising and distribution 
costs. It is also an important consideration for managed care providers, who 
want to provide their members with convenient access to pharmacy services. 
Management anticipates that most of the planned store openings will be based 
on CVS' 10,125 square foot freestanding prototype, which includes a 
drive-thru pharmacy. New sites will be selected based on convenience, with an 
emphasis on freestanding locations at traffic controlled intersections.
 
    Management expects that relocations of existing in-line strip center 
stores to freestanding locations will account for approximately 50% of store 
openings over the next several years. Historically, as a result of their more 
convenient locations and larger size, relocated stores have typically 
realized significant improvement in customer count and revenues, driven 
largely by increased sales of higher margin front store merchandise. 
Management expects this trend to continue, however there can be no assurance 
that similar improvements will be achieved in each geographic market in which 
the Company operates. See "Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking 
Statements" below. Freestanding locations require properties of approximately 
1 1/4 acres to support parking for 40-60 cars. As a result, site selection is 
also an important aspect of the Company's relocation program.
 
    The Company believes that achieving a critical mass in terms of store count
and locating stores in desirable geographic markets is essential to competing
effectively in the context of the current managed care environment described
more fully above. As a result, management believes that the Company's store
development program is an important element of its ability to maintain its
leadership position in the chain drugstore industry.
 
    INFORMATION SYSTEMS
 
    CVS has made significant investments in information systems to enable the
Company to deliver an exceptional level of customer service, while lowering
costs and increasing operating efficiency. The Company's client-server based
systems permit rapid and flexible system development to meet changing business
needs, enabling the integration of CVS systems with those of other healthcare
providers, including many of the Company's managed care customers. With a
scaleable technical architecture, CVS can efficiently expand its network and add
stores.
 
    In the Company's pharmacy business, the RX2000 computer system enables CVS
pharmacists to manage their prescription filling duties more efficiently, giving
them more time to spend with customers. The RX2000 system, which includes one of
the largest data warehouses in the country, facilitates the management of third
party healthcare plans and provides a warehouse of pharmacy data that can be
analyzed by both CVS and its managed care customers for a variety of healthcare-
and business-related applications. In addition, during 1997 the Company
implemented CVS Rapid Refill, an interactive voice response system that enables
customers to place refill orders by telephone 24 hours a day.
 
    In the front store business, the Company has developed an advanced "Retail
Data Warehouse" that enables a quick analysis of point-of-sale ("POS") data on a
store-by-store basis to develop targeted marketing and merchandising strategies.
The Company has also implemented a "Field Management System" that uses POS data
to identify areas to improve operational execution on a store-by-store basis. In
addition, the Company is in the process of a major supply chain initiative to
reengineer its entire warehouse and merchandising network, which is intended to
enable the more efficient and effective control of merchandise flow to CVS
stores.


    SUPPLIERS
 
    The Company centrally purchases most of its merchandise, including
prescription drugs, directly from manufacturers, allowing it to take advantage
of the promotional and volume discount programs that certain manufacturers offer
to retailers. During 1997, approximately 85% of the merchandise purchased
by the Company was received at one of the Company's distribution centers for
redistribution to its stores. The balance of store merchandise is shipped
directly to CVS stores from manufacturers and distributors at prices negotiated
at the corporate level. 


The Company believes that the loss of any one supplier or group of suppliers 
under common control would not have a material effect on its business.
 
    CUSTOMER SERVICE
 
    CVS strives to provide the highest levels of service to its customers and
partners. As a result, the Company devotes considerable time and attention to
people, systems and high service standards. The Company places an emphasis on
attracting and training friendly and helpful associates to work both in CVS
stores and throughout the CVS organization. Each CVS store receives a formal
customer service evaluation twice per year, based on a mystery shopper program,
customer letters and calls, and market research. CVS' priority on customer
service extends into the managed care portion of its business as well. In every
market, a Managed Care Service Team is responsible for ensuring that managed
care partners are receiving high levels of service. CVS pharmacists consistently
rank at the top of the industry on measurements of trust, relationship-building
and accessibility. This high level of service and expertise has played a key
role in enabling the growth of CVS' pharmacy operations.
 
    REGULATION
 
    The Company's pharmacies and pharmacists are required to be licensed by the
appropriate state boards of pharmacy. The Company's pharmacies and its
distribution centers are also registered with the Federal Drug Enforcement
Agency. By virtue of these licensing and registration requirements, the Company
is required to comply with various statutes, rules and regulations, a violation
of which could result in a suspension or revocation of such licenses or
registrations. Under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, the
Company's pharmacists are required to offer counseling, without charge, to
customers covered by Medicare about medication, dosage, delivery system,
potential side effects, and other information deemed significant by such
pharmacists. The Company's pharmacists in fact routinely offer such counseling
to consumers.
 
    COMPETITION
 
    The retail drugstore business is highly competitive. The Company believes
that it competes principally on the basis of: (i) store location and
convenience, (ii) customer service and satisfaction, (iii) product selection and
variety and (iv) price. The Company experiences active competition not only from
independent and other chain drugstores, but also from health maintenance
organizations, hospitals, mail order organizations, supermarkets, discount
drugstores and discount general merchandisers. The deep discount drug segment
has experienced significant growth over the past several years as drug chains,
food, discount and specialty retailers have entered the business. Major retail
companies now operate deep discount drugstores in the most competitive retailing
markets. "Combo" stores, which consist of grocery, drugstore and several other
operations under the same roof, have also experienced significant growth over
the past several years as consumers have become more attracted to one-stop
shopping. Retail mass merchandisers with prescription departments have also
grown in popularity. The Company is among the nation's largest chain drugstores,
in terms of both store count and annual sales volume.
 
    CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
    This report (as well as other public filings, press releases and discussions
with Company management) contains and incorporates by reference certain
forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
Forward-looking statements include the information concerning future results of
operations, cost savings and synergies of the Company following the Revco merger
and the Arbor acquisition; the information concerning the Company's ability to
continue to achieve significant sales growth; the information concerning the



ability of the Company to elevate the performance level of Revco stores 
following the Revco merger; the information concerning the Company's belief 
that it can continue to improve operating performance by relocating existing 
in-line stores to freestanding locations; and the information concerning the 
Company's ability to continue to reduce selling, general and administrative 
expenses as a percentage of net sales; as well as those preceded by, followed 
by or that otherwise include the words "believes", "expects", "anticipates", 
"intends", "estimates" or similar expressions. For those statements, we claim 
the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in 
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand 
that the following important factors, in addition to those discussed 
elsewhere in this report and in the documents which are incorporated by 
reference, and in our other public filings, press releases and discussions 
with Company management, could affect the future results of CVS and could 
cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the 
forward-looking statements: materially adverse changes in economic conditions 
in the markets served by the Company; future regulatory and legislative 
actions affecting the Company and/or the chain-drug industry; competition 
from other drugstore chains, from alternative distribution channels such as 
supermarkets, membership clubs, other retailers and mail order companies and 
from other third party plans; and the continued efforts of health maintenance 
organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit management 
companies and other third party payors to reduce prescription drug costs. The 
forward looking statements referred to above are also subject to 
uncertainties and assumptions relating to the operations and results of 
operations of the Company following the Revco merger and the Arbor 
acquisition, including: risks relating to the Company's ability to combine 
the businesses of CVS, Revco and Arbor and maintain current operating 
performance levels during the integration period(s) and the challenges 
inherent in diverting the Company's management focus and resources from other 
strategic opportunities and from operational matters for an extended period 
of time during the integration process(es); the Company's ability to continue 
to secure suitable new store locations on favorable lease terms as it seeks 
to open new stores and relocate a portion of its existing store base to 
freestanding locations; the Company's ability to continue to purchase 
inventory on favorable terms; the Company's ability to attract, hire and 
retain suitable pharmacists and management personnel; the ability of the 
Company and its key vendors to successfully manage Year 2000 issues; 
relationships with suppliers; and the impact of inflation.
 
ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
 
    Most CVS stores are occupied pursuant to long-term leases that vary as to
rental amounts and payments, expiration dates, renewal options and other rental
provisions. The Company does not deem any individual store lease to be
significant in relation to its overall business. For information as to the
amount of the Company's rental obligations for retail store leases, see Note 9
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
    The Company owns its corporate headquarters, located in two buildings in
Woonsocket, Rhode Island which contain an aggregate of approximately 312,000
square feet. Additionally, the Company recently announced plans to begin
construction of a third headquarters building, expected to contain in excess of
200,000 square feet, on a site adjacent to its corporate headquarters. The
Company also owns distribution centers located in Rhode Island, New Jersey,
Virginia, Indiana, Alabama, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, North Carolina and South
Carolina, which contain an aggregate of approximately 4,944,000 square feet, and
leases additional space near its distribution centers which contain an aggregate
of approximately 1,189,000 square feet. In addition, the Company owns an office
building located in Woonsocket, Rhode Island which contains approximately 33,000
square feet. The Company also leases approximately 41,000 square feet in an
office building in Lincoln, Rhode Island and four "satellite" store support
buildings located in Rhode Island and Massachusetts which contain an aggregate
of approximately 146,000 square feet. The Company also owns Revco's former
corporate headquarters, located in Twinsburg, Ohio, which contains approximately
108,000 square feet, and leases an additional 151,000 square feet in Twinsburg
formerly used for Revco store support. All of the Company's Twinsburg facilities
are expected to be consolidated or closed in 1998.
 
    In addition, in connection with certain dispositions of divisions 
completed between 1991 and 1997, CVS continues to guaranty certain lease 
obligations for store leases that had been entered into and guaranteed by the 
Company prior to the time of disposition for approximately 2,000 former 
stores. The Company is indemnified for these guarantee obligations by the 
respective purchasers. These guarantees generally remain in effect for the 
initial lease term and any extension thereof pursuant to a renewal option 
provided for in the lease prior to the time of the disposition. See Note 8 of 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    From time to time the Company and its subsidiaries are involved in the
assertion of claims and in litigation incidental to the normal course of
business. Management does not believe that any existing claims or litigation
will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or
results of operations of the Company.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the year ended December 31, 1997.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The following is included as an unnumbered item in Part I of this Report.
 

 
    In each case the term of office extends to the date of the board of
directors meeting following the next annual meeting of stockholders of the
Company. In addition to the office(s) which they hold in CVS
 


Corporation and CVS Pharmacy, Inc. as shown above, each of the individuals
listed holds various offices in certain CVS subsidiaries. Previous positions and
responsibilities held by each of the above officers over the past five years are
indicated below:
 
    CHARLES C. CONAWAY, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
of CVS Corporation since July 1996; Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since February 1995; from September 
1992 to February 1995, Senior Vice President--Pharmacy of CVS Pharmacy, Inc.; 
director of Linens 'n Things, Inc.
 
    STANLEY P. GOLDSTEIN, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
of CVS Corporation since January 1987; director of Bell Atlantic Corporation, 
Linens 'n Things, Inc. and Footstar, Inc. Additionally, the Company recently 
announced that Mr. Goldstein will step down as Chief Executive Officer of CVS 
Corporation effective May 13, 1998, at the time of the Company's Annual 
Meeting of Stockholders. He will be succeeded as Chief Executive Officer by 
Thomas M. Ryan (see below). Mr. Goldstein will remain Chairman of the Board.
 
    ROSEMARY MEDE, Vice President of CVS Corporation and Senior Vice 
President--Human Resources of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since October 1997; from 
December 1995 to September 1997, Vice President/General Manager of Business 
Services, Becton Dickinson & Co.; from 1988 to November 1995, held various 
management positions in human resources, Becton Dickinson & Co.
 
    LARRY J. MERLO, Vice President of CVS Corporation since October 1996; 
Senior Vice President--Stores of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since January 1994; from 
March 1993 to December 1993, Area Vice President of CVS Pharmacy, Inc.; from 
March 1991 to March 1993, Area Vice President of Peoples Drug Stores, Inc.
 
    DANIEL C. NELSON, Vice President of CVS Corporation since October 1996; 
Executive Vice President--Marketing of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since September 
1993; from June 1990 to September 1993, Senior Vice President of Dominicks 
Finer Foods, Inc.
 
    THOMAS M. RYAN, Vice Chairman of the Board and Chief Operating Officer of 
CVS Corporation since October 1996; President and Chief Executive Officer of 
CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since January 1994; from January 1990 to January 1994, 
Executive Vice President--Stores of CVS Pharmacy, Inc.; director of Fleet 
Financial Group and Reebok International Ltd. Additionally, the Company 
recently announced that Mr. Ryan has been elected President and Chief 
Executive Officer of CVS Corporation effective May 13, 1998, at the time of 
the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
    DOUGLAS A. SGARRO, Vice President of CVS Corporation and Senior Vice 
President--Administration and Chief Legal Officer of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since 
September 1997; from January 1993 to August 1997, partner in the New York 
City office of the law firm of Brown & Wood LLP; from September 1984 to 
December 1992, associate in the New York City office of Brown & Wood LLP.
 
    LARRY D. SOLBERG, Vice President of CVS Corporation since October 1996; 
Senior Vice President--Finance and Controller of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since 
March 1996; Vice President and Controller of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from October 
1994 to March 1996; from September 1993 to October 1994, Senior Vice 
President of PIMMS Corp.; prior to September 1993, various offices with 
National Car Rental Corp., most recently as Executive Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
    The number of holders of the Company's Common Stock, based upon the number
of record holders according to the records of the Company's transfer agent, was
approximately 10,200 as of December 31, 1997. The Company's Common Stock is
listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), under the ticker symbol "CVS."
The following table sets forth, for the calendar quarters indicated, the
reported high and low sale prices of the Company's Common Stock as reported on 
the NYSE Composite Transaction Tape, and the cash dividends declared by the 
Company per share of Common Stock.

 

 

 
- ------------------------
On March 2, 1998, the closing sale price of the Common Stock as reported by the
New York Stock Exchange was $73 9/16.


(1) On October 12, 1996, the Company completed the distribution of 100% of the
    common stock of Footstar, Inc. ("Footstar"), formerly a wholly owned
    subsidiary of the Company, in the form of a stock dividend to the Company's
    stockholders. The stock prices shown in the table are actual trading prices
    and do not reflect any adjustments for the when issued price of Footstar
    prior to October 16, 1996 (the date on which Footstar common stock commenced
    trading regular way on the NYSE).
 
UNREGISTERED SALES OF SECURITIES
 
    The Company did not sell any equity securities during the period covered by
this Annual Report on Form 10-K that were not registered under the Securities
Act of 1933.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
    The information required by this item is included in the Registrant's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1997 on page 66 and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
    The information required by this item is included in the Registrant's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1997 on pages 36 through
44 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
    Management does not believe that there is any material market risk exposure
with respect to derivative or other financial instruments which would require
disclosure under this Item.
 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
    The information required by this item is included in the Registrant's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1997 on pages 46 through
65, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
  FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
    During the Registrant's two most recent fiscal years and subsequent interim
period, no event occurred which would require disclosure under this Item.
 




                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The information required by this item, with the exception of the 
information relating to executive officers of the Registrant (which is 
presented under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I, 
Item 4, above), is included in the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1998 
Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the captions "Directors" and "Section 
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" and is incorporated herein 
by reference.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
    The information required by this item is included in the Registrant's Proxy
Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption
"Executive Compensation" and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
    The information required by this item is included in the Registrant's Proxy
Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the captions "Share
Ownership Information of Directors and Named Executive Officers" and "Share
Ownership Information of Certain Principal Stockholders" and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
    The information required by this item is included in the Registrant's Proxy
Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption "Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions" and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    ITEM 14(A) THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS ARE FILED AS PART OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT 
      ON FORM 10-K.
 
    Item 14(a)(1) and (2) The consolidated financial statements of CVS 
Corporation incorporated herein by reference to the Annual Report to 
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1997 and the related 
consolidated financial statement schedule are listed in the Index to 
Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page 16 hereof. Other 
financial statement schedules have not been included because they are not 
applicable or the information is included in the financial statements or 
notes thereto.
 

ITEM 14(A)(3) EXHIBITS
 
    The following is a list of exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
 


ITEM 14(B) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    During the quarter ended December 31, 1997, the Company filed did not file
any Reports on Form 8-K.


                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Annual Report on Form
10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                CVS CORPORATION

DATE: March 30 , 1998               BY: /S/ Stanley P. Goldstein 
                                    --------------------------------------
                                    Stanley P. Goldstein,
                                    Chairman of the Board and 
                                    Chief Executive Officer

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
          SIGNATURE                          TITLE                   DATE
- ------------------------------  -----------------------------  ----------------
 
 
                                Chairman of the Board,
   /s/ STANLEY P. GOLDSTEIN       Chief Executive Officer
- ------------------------------    and Director (Principal      March 30, 1998
     Stanley P. Goldstein         Executive Officer)
 
                                Executive Vice President
    /s/ CHARLES C. CONAWAY        and Chief Financial
- ------------------------------    Officer (Principal           March 30, 1998
      Charles C. Conaway          Financial Officer)
 
     /s/ LARRY D. SOLBERG       Vice President (Principal
- ------------------------------    Accounting Officer)          March 30, 1998
       Larry D. Solberg
 
    /s/ ALLAN J. BLOOSTEIN      Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
      Allan J. Bloostein
 
     /s/ W. DON CORNWELL        Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
       W. Don Cornwell
 
    /s/ THOMAS P. GERRITY       Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
      Thomas P. Gerrity
 
     /s/ WILLIAM H. JOYCE       Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
       William H. Joyce
 
   /s/ TERRY R. LAUTENBACH      Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
     Terry R. Lautenbach




          SIGNATURE                        TITLE                    DATE
- ------------------------------  ---------------------------  -------------------

 
     /s/ TERRENCE MURRAY        Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
       Terrence Murray
 
    /s/ SHELI Z. ROSENBERG      Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
      Sheli Z. Rosenberg
 

      /s/ THOMAS M. RYAN        Vice Chairman, Chief
- ------------------------------    Operating Officer and        March 30, 1998
        Thomas M. Ryan            Director
 
    /s/ IVAN G. SEIDENBERG      Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
      Ivan G. Seidenberg
 
  /s/ PATRICIA CARRY STEWART    Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
    Patricia Carry Stewart
 
    /s/ THOMAS O. THORSEN       Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
      Thomas O. Thorsen
 
 /s/ M. CABELL WOODWARD, JR.    Director
- ------------------------------                                 March 30, 1998
   M. Cabell Woodward, Jr.



                    CVS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
 
    The consolidated financial statements of CVS Corporation together with the
report on such consolidated financial statements of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP dated
February 9, 1998 which appear on the pages listed below of the Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1997, are incorporated by reference
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 

 



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
of CVS Corporation:
 
    Under date of February 9, 1998, we reported on the consolidated balance 
sheets of CVS Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, 
and related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and 
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 
1997, as contained in the 1997 annual report to shareholders. These 
consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are incorporated by 
reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 1997. In connection 
with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we 
also audited the related consolidated financial statement schedule as listed 
in the accompanying index. This financial statement schedule is the 
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
    In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.


/s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
- ---------------------------- 
KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

Providence, Rhode Island
February 9, 1998
                                     F-1

                                                                   SCHEDULE II
 
                                CVS CORPORATION
 
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 

 
- ------------------------
 
(1) 1995 includes a charge of $21.3 million that relates to certain receivables
    of former operating businesses that were retained by the Company subsequent
    to the sale of the related operating businesses.
 
(2) 1996 includes a deduction of $21.2 million that relates to the actual
    write-off of the receivables discussed in Note (1) above.
 
(3) 1997 amounts are consistent with the historical results of the Company's
    continuing operations.
 
                                      S-1

