
10-K405
CVS CORPORATION



 
================================================================================
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                            ------------------------
(MARK ONE)
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
[  ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                     TO
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-1011
 
                                CVS CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
                        (FORMERLY MELVILLE CORPORATION)
                            ------------------------
 

 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (401) 765-1500
 
      SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT:
 

 

   SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT: NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  Yes [X]  No [ ]
 
     The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock* held by
non-affiliates** of the registrant (without admitting that any person whose
shares are not included in such calculation is an affiliate) on March 1, 1997
was $4,944,270,225, based on the last sale price as reported by the New York
Stock Exchange.
 
     As of March 1, 1997, the registrant had 107,158,665 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.
 
- ---------------
*  Does not include 5,526,677 outstanding shares of Series One ESOP Convertible
   Preference Stock ("ESOP Preference Stock"). As of March 1, 1997, each share
   of ESOP Preference Stock is entitled to approximately 1.2 vote(s) per share
   on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock.
** Only stock held by directors and officers is excluded.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1996: Part
II, Items 6, 7 and 8; and Part IV, Item 14.
================================================================================

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
  General
 
     CVS Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("CVS" or the "Company"), is a
leader in the chain drug industry with over $5.5 billion in revenue in 1996. As
of December 31, 1996, the Company operated 1,408 stores, in 14 states and the
District of Columbia, most of which have pharmacies. In addition to prescription
drugs and services, CVS stores offer a broad selection of health and beauty
aids, greeting cards, photo processing services, cosmetics, convenience foods,
private label and seasonal items. In 1996, pharmacy sales increased 18.4% to
$2.4 billion, representing 43.9% of total sales for the year, while
higher-margin front store sales increased 9.3% to $3.1 billion, representing
56.1% of total sales for the year. CVS pharmacies fill an average of about 1,200
prescriptions a week, which is significantly higher than the average community
pharmacy. Total sales of $573 per square foot place CVS among the top performers
in the chain drug industry.
 
     The Company's principal executive offices are located at One CVS Drive,
Woonsocket, Rhode Island 02895.
 
  Strategic Restructuring Plan
 
     In October 1995, the Board of Directors of CVS approved a comprehensive
restructuring plan that was the product of a strategic review initiated in 1994.
The restructuring plan included, among other things, (i) the continued operation
of CVS (which includes CVS and, initially, the Linens 'n Things and Bob's
divisions), (ii) the disposition of the Marshalls, Kay-Bee Toys, Wilsons and
This End Up divisions (collectively, the "Dispositions"), (iii) the spin-off of
Footstar, Inc. ("Footstar"), which includes the Meldisco, Footaction and Thom
McAn divisions, and (iv) the elimination of significant corporate overhead
costs. Subsequently, in May 1996, the Board of Directors approved further
refinements to the restructuring plan, which included, among other things, a
formal plan to separate the Linens 'n Things and Bob's divisions from CVS. The
Dispositions were completed during 1995 and 1996. The Company completed the
spin-off of Footstar in October 1996 and, in December 1996, completed the
initial public offering of 67.5% of the shares of common stock of Linens 'n
Things, Inc. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information about the Company's restructuring program.
 
     The Company's stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol "CVS" on October 16, 1996 and, on November 20, 1996, Melville's corporate
name was officially changed to CVS Corporation. As used in this Form 10-K,
unless the context indicates otherwise, "CVS" or the "Company" shall mean and
include Melville with respect to periods prior to November 20, 1996.
 
  Agreement to Acquire Revco D.S., Inc.
 
     On February 6, 1997, CVS signed a definitive merger agreement to acquire
Revco D.S., Inc. ("Revco") in a stock-for-stock merger valued at approximately
$2.8 billion. CVS will also assume approximately $900 million of existing Revco
debt as part of this transaction.
 
     The combination of CVS and Revco, which has been approved by the Boards of
Directors of both companies, will bring together two of the leading companies in
the chain-drug industry to create the nation's largest chain drugstore company
based on store count, with approximately 4,000 locations in 24 states and the
District of Columbia. The combination will bring the combined company into
high-growth, contiguous markets in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast and
Midwest regions; and the combined enterprise is expected to rank second in
annual retail drugstore revenues in 1997.
 
     Under the terms of the merger agreement, CVS will combine with Revco in an
exchange of stock that is expected to qualify for treatment as a pooling of
interests transaction, tax free to Revco shareholders. If the merger is
completed, for each share of Revco common stock held, Revco shareholders will
receive the sum of (i) 0.4692 shares of CVS common stock and (ii) the number of
shares of CVS common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $20 by the
average closing price of CVS common stock during ten trading days
 

 
randomly selected out of the twenty trading days ending on the fifth trading day
preceding the closing date (collectively, the "Exchange Ratio"), provided that,
under no circumstances will the Exchange Ratio exceed 1.0097 or be less than
0.8837.
 
     The transaction is subject to approval by the shareholders of both
companies, expiration of the applicable waiting period under the
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and certain
other customary closing conditions. If all the closing conditions have been met,
it is expected that the transaction will be completed by mid-year 1997.
 
  Products and Operations
 
     A key focus of the Company's business is its pharmacy operations. The
Company believes that its pharmacy operations will continue to represent a
significant portion of its sales and profits due to (i) the demographic trend
toward an aging population, (ii) the continued development of new pharmaceutical
products and services, (iii) the Company's ability to attract and maintain third
party provider business and (iv) the continued shift toward payment for
prescriptions by third party providers. The Company also offers a broad
selection of general merchandise, presented in a well-organized fashion, in
stores that are designed to be warm, inviting and easy to shop. Major year-round
product lines include health and beauty aids, cosmetics, greeting cards, photo
processing services, books and magazines, convenience foods and household items.
The Company also features private label and seasonal items. The Company offers
over 1,100 products under the CVS brand private label, accounting for 11% of the
Company's front store sales. By providing high quality at an excellent price,
sales of CVS brand name products have grown at an annual rate of over 15%.
 
     The Company's merchandising effort is driven by a highly successful
category management approach, which affords the ability to refine and tailor
store merchandise selection market-by-market, based on local demographics. In
addition, the Company emphasizes the creation of key destination categories,
such as greeting cards, film and photofinishing, beauty and cosmetics,
convenience foods, private label and seasonal merchandise. These product areas
are managed so as to differentiate CVS in the marketplace and to take advantage
of the potential each destination category has to offer. To further support
growth in existing stores, the Company has in place an active remodel and
remerchandise program, which seeks to remodel 20% of the Company's existing
stores each year and to remerchandise another 20% each year. The Company has
also extended store hours in many locations, and, at the end of 1996, operated
approximately 100 24-hour stores.
 
     The Company centrally purchases most of its merchandise, including
prescription drugs, directly from manufacturers, allowing it to take advantage
of the promotional and volume discount programs that certain manufacturers offer
to retailers. During 1996, approximately 84% of the merchandise purchased by the
Company was received at one of the Company's four distribution centers for
redistribution to its stores. The balance of store merchandise is shipped
directly to CVS stores from manufacturers and distributors at prices negotiated
at the corporate level. The Company's largest supplier accounted for
approximately 6.5% of total merchandise purchased in 1996. The Company believes
that the loss of any one supplier or group of suppliers under common control
would not have a material effect on its business.
 
     In the Company's pharmacy business, its "RX2000" computer system enables
CVS pharmacists to manage their prescription filling duties more efficiently,
giving them more time to spend with customers. The RX2000 system, which includes
one of the largest data warehouses in the country, facilitates the management of
third party healthcare plans and provides a warehouse of pharmacy data that can
be analyzed by both CVS and its managed care customers for a variety of
healthcare- and business-related applications. In addition, the Company is
currently implementing an Interactive Voice Response system that enables
customers to place refill orders by telephone.
 
     In the front store business, the Company has developed an advanced "Retail
Data Warehouse" that enables a quick analysis of point-of-sale ("POS") data on a
store-by-store basis to develop targeted marketing and merchandising strategies.
The Company has also implemented a "Field Management System" that uses POS data
to identify areas to improve operational execution on a store-by-store basis. In
addition, the Company is in the process of reengineering its entire warehouse
and merchandising network, in order to enable the more efficient and effective
control of merchandise flow to CVS stores.
 

 
     The Company's business normally generates higher revenues during the
holiday season in its fourth fiscal quarter. In each of the fiscal years ended
1996 and 1995, the fourth quarter accounted for approximately 28.0% of the
Company's net sales.
 
  CVS Stores
 
     At December 31, 1996, the Company operated 1,408 stores, in 14 states and
the District of Columbia. CVS stores are considered "destination" stores and are
located primarily in "strip" shopping centers or are freestanding units. CVS
stores generally range in size from approximately 8,000 to 10,000 square feet,
with an average store size of approximately 9,000 square feet. The prototype new
store size is 75' x 135' (or 10,125 square feet), with growth programs directed
toward freestanding locations at traffic controlled intersections. The following
is a breakdown by state of the locations of the 1,408 Company operated stores at
the end of 1996:
 

 
     The Company believes that significant opportunities exist to increase its
presence in many existing markets, as well as to enter new geographic areas. The
Company intends to build on its existing base of stores in the Northeast and
Mid-Atlantic. The Company also intends to expand its base by entering
fast-growing markets in contiguous states through acquisition opportunities as
well as new store openings, through both self-development and landlord-built
projects.
 
     During 1996, the Company opened 98 new stores, including 23 relocations.
During 1997, the Company expects to open approximately 150 new stores, including
approximately 50 relocations. This planned expansion would contribute an
additional 5% in square footage, as most new stores will be approximately 10,000
square feet in size. Many new stores have drive-through pharmacies. Sites are
selected based on convenience, with an emphasis on free-standing locations.
 
     The addition of new stores has played, and will continue to play, a major
role in the Company's continued growth. As new stores have been opened, the
Company has maintained its objective of securing strong positions in each market
that its stores serve. This provides the Company several important advantages,
including an ability to save on advertising and distribution costs. It is also
an important consideration for managed care providers, who want to provide their
members with convenient access to pharmacy services.
 
     The Company's efforts to open new stores are complemented by an active
store relocation and renovation program that is aimed at making CVS' store base
as productive as possible. The Company aggressively pursues opportunities to
relocate select strip center stores to freestanding locations. Plans for 1997
include approximately 50 relocations. Freestanding locations require properties
of approximately 1 1/4 acres to support parking for 40-60 cars. Site selection
is also an important aspect of the Company's relocation program. As stores are
relocated to free-standing or more convenient locations, the Company has often
been able to achieve a 20-25% increase in sales.
 
     If the proposed merger with Revco is completed, the transaction is expected
to create the nation's largest chain drugstore company based on store count,
with approximately 4,000 locations in 24 states and the District of Columbia.
The combination will bring the combined company into high-growth, contiguous
markets in the Northeast, Mid-Atlantic, Southeast and Midwest regions; and the
combined enterprise is expected to rank second in annual retail drugstore
revenues in 1997.
 

 
     The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated below, certain
information concerning CVS store growth:
 

 
  Pharmacy Sales and Managed Care
 
     In 1996, pharmacy sales increased 18.4% to $2.4 billion, representing 43.9%
of total sales for the year. Pharmacy sales in 1995 and 1994 were $2.0 billion
and $1.7 billion, representing 42.0% and 40.4% of total sales for such years.
CVS pharmacies fill an average of about 1,200 prescriptions per store per week,
which is significantly higher than the average community pharmacy. Growth in
pharmacy sales is primarily driven by (i) the Company's ability to succeed in
the rapidly-growing managed care arena, (ii) the purchase of prescription files
from independent pharmacies and (iii) favorable trends, including an aging
American population, greater demand for retail formats that provide easy access
and convenience, the continued discovery and development of new drug therapies
and a need for cost-effective healthcare solutions.
 
     During fiscal 1996, 81.8% of pharmacy sales were attributable to payments
by third party providers under prescription drug plans, as compared to 76.1% in
1995 and 69.1% in 1994. The shift toward payment for prescriptions by third
party providers is likely to continue, as consumers move from fee-for-service
indemnity plans to managed care plans with preferred providers. In a typical
third party payment plan, the Company has a contract with a third party payor,
such as an insurance company, a prescription benefit management company, a
governmental agency, a private employer, a health maintenance organization or
other managed care provider, which agrees to pay for all or a portion of a
customer's eligible prescription purchases in exchange for reduced prescription
rates. Although third party payment plans provide a high volume of prescription
drug sales, such sales typically generate lower gross margins than other
prescription drug sales due to the cost containment efforts of these large third
party payors and the increasing competition among pharmacies for this business.
 
     CVS' experience in providing solutions to managed care providers, and its
existing store base which affords easy access and convenience to consumers, are
factors that should contribute to the Company's continued ability to attract and
maintain third party business. In addition, the Company's RX2000 pharmacy
computer system facilitates the management of third party healthcare plans and
enables CVS to provide managed care providers with a level of information
unmatched by competitors. By analyzing this data, CVS and its managed care
partners are able to evaluate treatment outcomes with an eye toward improving
care and containing costs. The Company's emphasis on customer service extends
from the expert advice and service that individual customers receive from CVS
pharmacists into the managed care portion of the Company's business, where
Managed Care Service Teams are responsible for insuring the high level of
service that CVS' managed care partners receive. During 1996, the top 5
providers accounted for approximately 41% of pharmacy sales. Any significant
loss of third party provider business could have a material adverse affect on
the Company's business and results of operations.
 
     The Company's pharmacy business also continues to benefit from an
"independent file buy" program, in which CVS purchases prescription files from
one or more independent pharmacies. During 1996, CVS purchased 114 prescription
files, containing an average weekly prescription count of approximately 400,
from independent pharmacies, and the Company plans to purchase a similar number
of prescription files during 1997. The Company believes that independent file
buys are productive investments. In many cases, the independent pharmacist will
move to CVS, thereby providing continuity in the pharmacist-patient
relationship.
 

 
  Pharmacare
 
     CVS is committed to being part of an integrated healthcare approach that
brings together industry participants such as physicians, pharmaceutical
companies, managed care providers and pharmacies in order to provide patients
with the best possible care at the lowest cost. The Company's efforts to date
have primarily concentrated on two main areas: (i) the operation and expansion
of Pharmacare, the Company's prescription benefit management subsidiary and (ii)
the creation of strategic alliances with healthcare partners.
 
     Pharmacare, founded in 1994, provides managed care providers a full range
of prescription benefit management services including plan design and
administration, formulary management, claims processing and generic
substitution, with a focus on providing integrated solutions to the delivery of
healthcare. In the two and a half years since it was established, Pharmacare has
grown considerably and, at the end of 1996, managed healthcare services for more
than one million people through a preferred national pharmacy network of
approximately 37,500 pharmacies.
 
     One of the features that sets Pharmacare apart from other prescription
benefit management providers is its proprietary Clinical Information Management
System ("CIMS"). CIMS enables CVS pharmacists to work more efficiently with
physicians by facilitating communication and information-sharing, with the
objective of improving patient care and reducing costs. More than 10,000
physicians are currently using CIMS. In addition, Pharmacare plays an increasing
role in healthcare management through integrated partnerships with several large
managed care providers.
 
     CVS is also pursuing strategic alliances with healthcare partners to
develop products and services that will create new opportunities for revenue and
profit growth. In December 1995, CVS announced its first such alliance, a joint
venture with Pfizer Health Solutions, Inc., a subsidiary of Pfizer, Inc., called
HealthCare Market Research ("HCMR"). This partnership, will draw upon Pfizer's
expertise in research and disease management and the wealth of information
residing in CVS' pharmacy data warehouse. HCMR plans to develop
information-based products to help managed care organizations and employers
achieve better health outcomes and cost efficiencies. One goal is to provide
clients with economic comparisons of various pharmaceutical care programs to
help them select care management strategies for particular patients and disease
types, with the objective of improving treatment and managing costs.
 
  Information Systems
 
     CVS has made significant investments in information systems to enable the
Company to deliver an exceptional level of customer service, while lowering
costs and increasing operating efficiency. The Company's client-server based
system permits rapid and flexible system development to meet changing business
needs, enabling the integration of CVS systems with those of other healthcare
providers, including many of the Company's managed care customers. With a
scaleable technical architecture, CVS can efficiently expand its network and add
stores.
 
     In the Company's pharmacy business, the RX2000 computer system enables CVS
pharmacists to manage their prescription filling duties more efficiently, giving
them more time to spend with customers. The RX2000 system facilitates the
management of third party healthcare plans and provides a warehouse of pharmacy
data that can be analyzed by both CVS and its managed care customers for a
variety of healthcare-and business-related applications. In addition, the
Company is currently implementing an Interactive Voice Response system that
enables customers to place refill orders by telephone.
 
     In the front store business, the Company has developed an advanced "Retail
Data Warehouse" that enables a quick analysis of point-of-sale ("POS") data on a
store-by-store basis to develop targeted marketing and merchandising strategies.
The Company has also implemented a "Field Management System" that uses POS data
to identify areas to improve operational execution on a store-by-store basis. In
addition, the Company is in the process of a major supply chain initiative to
reengineer its entire warehouse and merchandising network, which is intended to
enable the more efficient and effective control of merchandise flow to CVS
stores.
 

 
  Customer Service
 
     CVS strives to provide the highest levels of service to its customers and
partners. As a result, the Company devotes considerable time and attention to
people, systems and high service standards. The Company places an emphasis on
attracting friendly and helpful associates to work both in CVS stores and
throughout the CVS organization. The Company continuously provides training and
educational programs, and invests in the tools associates need to do their jobs
effectively. The Company measures results continuously, to identify and correct
any problems quickly. Each CVS store receives a formal customer service
evaluation twice per year, based on a mystery shopper program, customer letters
and calls, and market research. In addition, feedback received through customer
letters and calls is provided on a more informal basis every month. CVS'
priority on customer service extends into the managed care portion of its
business as well. In every market, a Managed Care Service Team is responsible
for insuring that managed care partners are receiving high levels of service.
These teams have the ability to bring in additional corporate support as
necessary to meet our partners' needs. CVS pharmacists consistently rank at the
top of the industry on measurements of trust, relationship-building and
accessibility. This high level of service and expertise has played a key role in
enabling growth in pharmacy operations year after year.
 
  Regulation
 
     The Company's pharmacies and pharmacists are required to be licensed by the
appropriate state boards of pharmacy. The Company's pharmacies and its
distribution centers are also registered with the Federal Drug Enforcement
Agency. By virtue of these licensing and registration requirements, the Company
is required to comply with various statutes, rules and regulations, a violation
of which could result in a suspension or revocation of such licenses or
registrations. Under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, the
Company's pharmacists are required to offer counseling, without charge, to
customers covered by Medicare about medication, dosage, delivery system,
potential side effects, and other information deemed significant by such
pharmacists. The Company's pharmacists in fact routinely offer such counseling
to consumers.
 
  Competition
 
     The retail drugstore business is highly competitive. The Company believes
that it competes principally on the basis of: (i) store location and
convenience, (ii) customer service and satisfaction, (iii) product selection and
variety and (iv) price. The Company experiences active competition not only from
independent and other chain drugstores, but also from health maintenance
organizations, hospitals, mail order organizations, supermarkets, discount
drugstores and discount general merchandisers. Among major drug chains, some
competitors have greater financial resources than the Company and have used such
resources, in some instances, to improve their competitive position through
modernized store systems, aggressive remodeling, new store openings and
acquisitions. The deep discount drug segment has experienced significant growth
over the past several years as drug chains, food, discount and specialty
retailers have entered the business. Major retail companies now operate deep
discount drugstores in the most competitive retailing markets. "Combo" stores,
which consist of grocery, drugstore and several other operations under the same
roof, have also experienced significant growth over the past several years as
consumers have become more attracted to one-stop shopping. Retail mass
merchandisers with prescription departments have also grown in popularity. The
Company believes, based on publicly available information, that, as of December
31, 1996, it ranked 5th on a store-count basis and 6th on an annual sales-volume
basis among chain drugstores.
 
ITEM 2.  DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY
 
     Most CVS stores are occupied pursuant to long term leases that vary as to
rental amounts and payments, expiration dates, renewal options and other rental
provisions. The Company does not deem any individual store lease to be
significant in relation to its overall business. For information as to the
amount of the Company's rental obligations for retail store leases, see Note 12
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     The Company owns its corporate headquarters located in Woonsocket, Rhode
Island, which contains approximately 272,000 square feet. The Company also owns
and operates four distribution centers, located in
 

 
Woonsocket, Rhode Island, North Smithfield, Rhode Island, Lumberton, New Jersey
and Fredericksburg Virginia, which contain an aggregate of approximately
2,445,000 square feet. In addition, the Company owns a store support building
located in Woonsocket, Rhode Island which contains approximately 114,000 square
feet, and an office building located in Woonsocket, Rhode Island which contains
approximately 33,000 square feet. The Company also leases approximately 41,000
square feet in an office building in Lincoln, Rhode Island and three "satellite"
store support buildings which contain an aggregate of approximately 120,000
square feet.
 
     In addition, in connection with certain dispositions completed between 1991
and 1996, CVS continues to guaranty the lease obligations for approximately
2,600 former stores. The Company is indemnified for these obligations by the
respective purchasers. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     From time to time the Company and its subsidiaries are involved in the
assertion of claims and in litigation incidental to the normal course of
business. In the opinion of management, no existing claims or litigation will
have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition or
results of operations of the Company.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     On November 19, 1996, at a special meeting of the stockholders of Melville
Corporation, the Melville stockholders approved a proposal (the "Proposal") to
incorporate a new holding company in Delaware resulting in Melville stockholders
owning shares of such new Delaware holding company named "CVS Corporation" and,
in connection therewith, to effect the amendments to the holding company's
charter and bylaws, all as more fully described in the Proxy Statement of the
predecessor corporation, Melville Corporation, on Schedule 14A dated October 7,
1996 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission. The Proposal was approved by
a vote of 85,999,993 shares in favor of the Proposal, 1,163,842 shares opposed
to the Proposal (none of which were broker non-votes deemed to be votes against
the Proposal) and 302,969 shares abstaining from voting.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The following is included as an unnumbered item in Part I of this Report.
 

 
     In each case the term of office extends to the date of the board of
directors meeting following the next annual meeting of shareholders of the
Company. In addition to the office(s) which they hold in the Company as shown
above, each of the individuals listed (with the exception of Mr. Goldstein)
holds various offices in certain CVS subsidiaries. Previous positions and
responsibilities held by each of the above officers with the
 

 
Company and for each of the above officers who have not held the same office(s)
with the same responsibilities for more than the past five years, are indicated
below:
 
     Charles C. Conaway, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
CVS since July 1996; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of CVS
Pharmacy, Inc. since February 1995; from September 1992 to February 1995, Senior
Vice President -- Pharmacy of the CVS Pharmacy, Inc.; from August 1989 to
September 1992, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and a director
of Reliable Drug Stores, Inc.; director of Linens 'n Things, Inc.
 
     Stanley P. Goldstein, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
CVS since January 1987; director of NYNEX Corporation, Linens 'n Things, Inc.
and Footstar.
 
     Aldwin Jolly, Vice President of CVS since October 1996; Senior Vice
President -- Human Resources of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since April 1992; from
September 1986 to April 1992, President of Corporate Investments, International.
 
     Larry J. Merlo, Vice President of CVS since October 1996; Senior Vice
President -- Stores of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since January 1994; from March 1993 to
December 1993, Area Vice President of CVS Pharmacy, Inc.; from March 1991 to
March 1993, Area Vice President of Peoples Drug Stores, Inc.
 
     Daniel C. Nelson, Vice President of CVS since October 1996; Executive Vice
President -- Marketing of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since September 1993; from June
1990 to September 1993, Senior Vice President of Dominicks Finer Foods, Inc.
 
     Thomas M. Ryan, Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of CVS since
October 1996; President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since
January 1994; from January 1990 to January 1994, Executive Vice
President -- Stores of CVS Pharmacy, Inc.; director of Citizens Bank.
 
     Larry Solberg, Vice President of CVS since October 1996; Senior Vice
President -- Finance and Controller of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since March 1996; Vice
President and Controller of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from October 1994 to March 1996;
from September 1993 to October 1994, Senior Vice President of PIMMS Corp.; prior
to September 1993, various offices with National Car Rental Corp., most recently
as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     The number of holders of the Company's Common Stock, based upon the number
of record holders, was approximately 5,700 as of December 31, 1996. The
Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), under
the ticker symbol "CVS." The following table sets forth, for the calendar
quarters indicated, the reported high and low sale prices of CVS Common Stock as
reported on the NYSE Composite Transaction Tape, based on published financial
sources, and the cash dividends declared on the CVS Common Stock.
 

 
- ---------------
(1) On October 12, 1996, CVS completed the distribution of 100% of the common
    stock of Footstar to CVS' stockholders. The CVS stock prices shown in the
    table are actual CVS trading prices and do not reflect any adjustments for
    the when-issued price of Footstar prior to October 16, 1996 (the date on
    which Footstar common stock commenced trading regular way on the NYSE).
 
UNREGISTERED SALES OF SECURITIES
 
     The Company did not sell any equity securities during the period covered by
this Annual Report on Form 10-K that were not registered under the Securities
Act of 1933.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The information required by this item is included in the Company's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1996 on page 53 and is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     The information required by this item is included in the Company's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1996 on pages 28 through
33 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The information required by this item is included in the Company's Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1996 on pages 34 through
52, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     During the Company's two most recent fiscal years and subsequent interim
period, no event occurred which would require disclosure under this item.
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     (a) Executive Officers -- See "Executive Officers of the Registrant"
appearing in Part I above.
 
     (b) Directors -- The following individuals currently serve as directors of
                      CVS. Mr. Jordan and Mr. Rosenthal are current directors
                      who are not standing for re-election at the next meeting
                      of stockholders of CVS. Each individual's age is indicated
                      in parentheses alongside such individual's name.
 
     Allan J. Bloostein, (67), a director since 1989, is the President of Allan
J. Bloostein Associates, a consulting firm; retired Vice Chairman and director
of May Department Stores; director of Taubman Centers Inc.; trustee or director
of various Smith Barney investment portfolios.
 
     W. Don Cornwell, (49), a director since 1994, is the Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer of Granite Broadcasting Corporation, a group
broadcasting company.
 
     Thomas P. Gerrity, (55), a director since 1995, is the Dean of The Wharton
School of the University of Pennsylvania; director of Digital Equipment
Corporation, the Federal National Mortgage Association, Reliance Group Holdings,
Inc., Sun Company, Inc. and Union Carbide Corporation; trustee of the MAS Funds.
 
     Stanley P. Goldstein, (62), a director since 1984, has been Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer since January 1987; director of NYNEX
Corporation, Linens 'n Things, Inc. and Footstar.
 
     Michael H. Jordan, (60), a director since 1984, is the Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer of Westinghouse Electric Corporation; from
August 1992 to June 1993, Principal of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc., a private
investment firm; prior to August, 1992, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
PepsiCo International Food and Beverages; director of Aetna Life & Casualty
Company, Dell Computer Corporation, Nukote, Inc. and Rhone-Poulenc Rorer Inc.
 
     William H. Joyce, (61), a director since 1994, is the Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer of Union Carbide Corporation, a leading producer of
chemicals and polymers; from January 1993 to January 1996, President, Chief
Operating Officer and director of Union Carbide Corporation; from December 1991
to January 1993, Executive Vice President of Union Carbide Corporation; director
of Reynolds Metals Company.
 
     Terry R. Lautenbach, (58), a director since 1991, is a retired Senior Vice
President of IBM Corporation, a multinational advanced information technology
company; director of Air Products and Chemicals Inc., Varian Associates, Inc.
and Footstar; trustee of Loomis-Sayles Mutual Funds.
 
     Terrence Murray, (57), a director since 1996, is the Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer of Fleet Financial Group; director of A.T. Cross
Company and Allmerica Financial Corporation.
 
     Harvey Rosenthal, (54), a director since 1994; prior to October 1996,
President and Chief Operating Officer of Melville Corporation; prior to January,
1994, Vice President of CVS and President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS
Pharmacy, Inc.
 
     Thomas M. Ryan, (44), a director since 1996; Vice Chairman and Chief
Operating Officer of CVS since October 1996; President and Chief Executive
Officer of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since January 1994; from January 1990 to January
1994, Executive Vice President Stores of CVS Pharmacy, Inc.; director of
Citizen's Bank.
 
     Ivan G. Seidenberg, (50), a director since 1993, is the Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer of NYNEX Corporation, a worldwide
communications company; from January 1995 to April 1995, President, Chief
Executive Officer and director of NYNEX Corporation; from February 1994 to
January 1995, President, Chief Operating Officer and Vice Chairman of NYNEX
Corporation; from April 1991 to
 

 
February 1994, Vice Chairman, Telecommunications Group, NYNEX Corporation;
director of American Home Products Corporation, Viacom Inc. and Allied Signal
Inc.
 
     Patricia Carry Stewart, (68), a director since 1989, is a retired Vice
President of The Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, a charitable foundation;
director of Bankers Trust New York Corporation.
 
     M. Cabell Woodward, Jr., (68), a director since 1982, is a retired Vice
Chairman, Chief Financial Officer and director of ITT Corporation, a diversified
multinational corporation; director of The Black & Decker Corporation and
Footstar; trustee of a management investment company sponsored by PaineWebber.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  Summary Compensation Table
 
     The following table summarizes all compensation awarded to, earned by or
paid to the five named executive officers for all services rendered to CVS and
its subsidiaries for the periods indicated.
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Includes a deferred bonus in the amount of $1,500,000 payable to each of
    Messrs. Ryan and Conaway in 1999 in recognition of their work in
    successfully implementing CVS' restructuring.
 
(2) Options outstanding have been adjusted to account for the spin-off of
    Footstar on October 12, 1996. Options granted in 1996 become exercisable as
    follows: one-half of the grant becomes exercisable in three annual
    installments beginning on the second anniversary of the grant date and the
    remaining one-half of the grant becomes exercisable after seven years of
    continued future employment, subject to accelerated vesting of 50% if the
    trading value of CVS Common Stock reaches $43.2950 and the other 50% if the
    trading value reaches $47.6245.
 
(3) Restricted stock granted in 1996 is forfeitable if the recipient ceases to
    be employed by CVS during the three-year restriction period, subject to
    accelerated vesting in certain events. All restricted stock disclosed in
    this table and currently outstanding reflect awards of either (i)
    performance-based restricted stock which is contingent upon meeting one year
    performance objectives and subject to a three-year holding period from the
    date of grant or (ii) restricted stock that vests over either a three or
    four year period based on continuing employment. Based on the number of
    shares of restricted stock earned at the end of a period, dividends are paid
    at the same rate as paid to all shareholders from the date of the award. On
    December 31, 1996, Mr. Goldstein had a right to receive, in the aggregate,
    9,177 restricted shares having
 

 
    a market value on December 31, 1996 of $378,551. Mr. Ryan had a right to
    receive, in the aggregate, 33,044 restricted shares having a market value on
    December 31, 1996 of $1,363,065. Mr. Conaway had a right to receive, in the
    aggregate, 17,960 restricted shares having a market value on December 31,
    1996 of $740,850. Mr. Nelson had a right to receive, in the aggregate,
    18,545 restricted shares having a market value on December 31, 1996 of
    $764,981. Mr. Merlo had a right to receive, in the aggregate, 6,419
    restricted shares having a market value on December 31, 1996 of $264,784.
 
(4) Represents performance shares granted for the 1992-1994 performance cycle
    based on the market value on December 31, 1994 of $30.31. These units were
    earned at the end of the performance cycle based on pre-established
    financial performance objectives with respect to earnings per share, growth
    and return on equity.
 
(5) For 1996, includes $3,000, $6,167, $6,167, $5,375 and $6,000 contributed
    under CVS' 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan for Mr. Goldstein, Mr. Ryan, Mr.
    Conaway, Mr. Nelson and Mr. Merlo, respectively; 56.127 ESOP shares based on
    an assumed market value of $53.45 per share (total value of $3,000)
    contributed under the CVS ESOP for each of the named executives; and $14,040
    paid as premiums on life insurance on behalf of Mr. Goldstein.
 
  Option Grants in Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 1996
 
     The following table summarizes activity relating to stock options awarded
to the named executive officers in the last fiscal year.
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) The number of shares granted and the exercise price per share has been
    adjusted to account for the spin-off of Footstar on October 12, 1996. These
    options become exercisable as follows: one-half of the grant becomes
    exercisable in three annual installments beginning on the second anniversary
    of the grant date and one-half of the grant becomes exercisable after seven
    years of continued future employment, subject to accelerated vesting of 50%
    if the trading value of the CVS Common Stock reaches $43.2950 and the other
    50% if the trading value reaches $47.6245. The exercise prices are equal to
    the fair market value of CVS Common Stock on the grant date.
 
(2) Based on options to purchase 1,108,673 shares granted to all employees
    during 1996.
 
(3) The hypothetical present values on the grant date are calculated under the
    modified Black Scholes Model, which is a mathematical formula used to value
    options traded on stock exchanges. This formula considers a number of
    factors in hypothesizing an option's present value. Factors used to value
    options granted which expire 5/14/2006 include the stock's expected
    volatility rate (20.7%), risk free rate of return (6.58%), projected
    dividend yield (1.1%), projected time of exercise (7 years) and projected
    risk of forfeiture rate for vesting period (5% per annum). There is no
    assurance that the hypothetical present value of the stock options reflected
    in this table will be realized.
 

 
  Aggregated Option Exercises in Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 1996 and
Year-end Option Values
 
     The following table summarizes stock option exercise activity for the named
executive officers during the last fiscal year and the fiscal year-end values of
unexercised options.
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Options outstanding have been adjusted to account for the spin-off of
    Footstar on October 12, 1996.
 
(2) The value of unexercised in-the-money options at fiscal year-end assumes a
    fair market value of CVS Common Stock of $41.25, the average of the high and
    low sale prices of the CVS Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock
    Exchange on December 31, 1996. The actual before-tax amount, if any,
    realized upon the exercise of a stock option will depend upon the market
    price of the CVS Common Stock at the time the stock option is exercised.
    There is no assurance that the value of unexercised in-the-money stock
    options reflected in this table will be realized.
 
  Income Continuation Policy
 
     In January 1987, the CVS Board of Directors adopted and in May 1988
amended, the Income Continuation Policy for Select Senior Executives of CVS (the
"Income Continuation Policy"), which provides that in the event of a change in
control, as defined in the Income Continuation Policy, and subsequent
termination of employment by CVS other than for cause, or by the executive with
good reason (as defined in the Income Continuation Policy), within 24 months of
a change in control, the Chief Executive Officer and other current named
executive officers in the Summary Compensation Table will be entitled to receive
from CVS a single sum payment equal to three times the sum of annual base pay
plus their full normal annual incentive compensation award immediately prior to
such termination of employment. In addition, upon such a termination of
employment, each covered executive will be entitled to remain a participant in
all employee welfare benefit plans maintained by CVS at the time of such
termination of employment for a period of 24 months after such termination of
employment (or if such participation is not possible under the terms of any such
plan, each such executive shall be provided with benefits which are comparable
to the coverage provided by such plan). The Income Continuation Policy also
provides that in the event of a change in control each covered executive shall
be fully vested in all shares previously awarded to the executive under CVS'
Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan and any successor plan thereto without regard to
any restrictions previously imposed under the terms of such plan and entitled to
exercise any stock options on CVS Common Stock (whether or not otherwise
exercisable). In addition, upon termination of employment each outstanding
option shall remain exercisable until the earlier of six months after such
termination, provided such exercise does not violate the terms of the plan under
which such option was granted, or the expiration of the option period specified
in such plan. The Income Continuation Policy also provides that if payments
under such policy or the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan described below
are subject to the "golden parachute" excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code
(which deals with certain payments contingent on a change in control), CVS will
make an additional payment to the covered executive in respect of such tax.
 
  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
 
     CVS maintains a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Select Senior
Management of CVS (the "Supplemental Retirement Plan"). The Supplemental
Retirement Plan is designed to increase the retirement
 

 
benefits of selected executive employees. In connection with CVS' restructuring
during 1996, the Supplemental Retirement Plan was amended to create a new
benefit formula (the "New Benefit Formula"). Under the New Benefit Formula,
executives selected for participation (including Messrs. Ryan, Conaway, Nelson
and Merlo) will receive an annual benefit commencing on the later of age 55 or
retirement, equal to 1.6% of a three-year average of final compensation (as
defined) for each year of service (including credited years of service under the
Supplemental Retirement Plan prior to amendment) up to 30 years, or a maximum
benefit of 48% of final compensation, with no offset for any amounts provided by
CVS' qualified plans, social security or other retirement benefits. Except in
the event of a change in control (as defined in the plan) or as provided in the
employment agreements referred to below, no benefits are payable to an eligible
executive unless he or she terminates employment after attaining age 55 or after
five years of credited service under the plan. The following table shows the
approximate amounts of annual retirement income that would be payable under the
New Benefit Formula to executives covered by it based on various assumptions as
to compensation and years of service, assuming benefits are computed under a
straight life annuity formula and retirement after attaining age 55 or with five
years of service:
 
            ESTIMATED ANNUAL RETIREMENT BENEFITS BASED ON SERVICE OF
 

 
     Final compensation for purposes of the New Benefit Formula is the average
of the executive's three highest years of annual salary and bonus out of the
last ten years of service. For this purpose, salary and bonus are the amounts
shown in the Salary and Bonus column of the Summary Compensation Table. The
estimated credited years of benefit service for Messrs. Ryan, Conaway, Nelson
and Merlo as of December 31, 1996 were 21, 4, 3 and 18 years, respectively.
Enhanced benefits are payable in a lump sum upon termination of employment
following a change in control.
 
     The benefit formula in place prior to amendment of the Supplemental
Retirement Plan (the "Prior Benefit Formula") continues to apply to Mr.
Goldstein and certain other executives who have terminated employment with a
vested benefit. The Prior Benefit Formula provides that executive officers with
at least 10 years of credited service will receive upon retirement at or after
age 60 an annual benefit equal to 50% of final compensation less any amounts
provided by other retirement programs of CVS or programs of other companies (but
without deduction for social security). In the case of retirement on or after
age 55 but before age 60, a reduced benefit is provided. Except in the event of
a change in control (as defined in the plan) or as provided in the employment
agreements referred to below, no benefits are payable to an eligible executive
who terminates employment prior to age 55 or prior to completing 10 years of
credited service.
 
     Under the Prior Benefit Formula, Mr. Goldstein is currently entitled to
retire with an annual benefit of $768,000, computed under a straight life
annuity formula. Final compensation for purposes of the Prior Benefit Formula is
the executive's final year of salary plus targeted annual incentive bonus for
his or her final year. In the event of a change in control, benefits will be
payable under the Prior Benefit Formula upon subsequent termination of
employment on a lump sum basis.
 
     Benefits under the New Benefit Formula and the Prior Benefit Formula are
generally payable in annual installments for the life of the executive, but
joint and survivor forms of payment of equivalent actuarial value may be
elected.
 

 
  CVS Employment Agreements
 
     In December 1996, the CVS Board approved that CVS enter into employment
agreements (each referred to below as a "CVS Employment Agreement" and
collectively as the "CVS Employment Agreements") with Messrs. Ryan, Conaway,
Nelson, Merlo and one other executive officer relating to their employment with
CVS. CVS has entered into a CVS Employment Agreement with certain of these
officers and expects that the remaining unexecuted employment agreements will be
entered into within a reasonable period after the date of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. The CVS Employment Agreements supersede the Income Continuation
Policy (referred to above) as it relates to such executives.
 
     The period of employment under the CVS Employment Agreements extends
initially for three years, subject to automatic one-year extensions at the end
of the initial term unless either party gives notice of non-renewal at least 180
days prior to expiration of the term. The CVS Employment Agreements generally
provide for payment of an annual base salary, subject to review for increase at
the discretion of the Compensation Committee. Base salaries are currently
$725,000, $500,000, $450,000 and $350,000 for Messrs. Ryan, Conaway, Nelson and
Merlo, respectively. The CVS Employment Agreements also generally provide for
(i) continued payment of base salary, target cash bonuses, and other benefits
for 36 months in the case of Mr. Ryan and for 24 months in the case of other
named executive officers (or a lump sum equal to three times salary plus target
bonuses in the case of a change in control) in the event the executive's
employment is terminated by CVS without "cause" or voluntarily by the executive
due to a "constructive termination without cause"; (ii) non-competition for a
period of 18 months subsequent to a voluntary termination of employment if CVS
elects to continue paying 50% of the executive's base salary during such period;
(iii) other restrictive covenants including nondisclosure, non-solicitation of
employees and availability for litigation support; (iv) participation in certain
benefit plans and programs (including life insurance and medical benefits); (v)
annual and long term incentive compensation opportunities; and (vi) deferred
compensation arrangements. Mr. Ryan's CVS Employment Agreement provides that his
target annual incentive opportunity may not be less than 65% of his base salary,
and the CVS Employment Agreements for Messrs. Conaway, Nelson and Merlo provide
that their target annual incentive opportunities may not be less than 60%, 60%
and 50%, respectively, of their base salaries.
 
     A "change in control" is defined in generally the same manner as under the
proposed 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan, as described below. "Constructive
termination without cause" is defined generally as demotion, reduction in
compensation, unapproved relocation in the case of Mr. Ryan (or, in the case of
other named executive officers, following a change in control), material breach
of the CVS Employment Agreement by CVS, or, in the case of Mr. Ryan, failure to
extend the term of the CVS Employment Agreement to his 60th birthday. "Cause" is
defined generally as a breach of the restrictive covenants, felony convictions,
or willful gross neglect or gross misconduct resulting in material harm to CVS.
 
     If payments under the CVS Employment Agreements following a change in
control are subject to the "golden parachute" excise tax, CVS will make an
additional "gross-up" payment sufficient to ensure that the net after-tax amount
retained by the executive (taking into account all taxes, including those on the
gross-up payment) is the same as would have been the case had such excise tax
not applied. The CVS Employment Agreements obligate CVS to indemnify the
executives to the fullest extent permitted by law, including the advancement of
expenses, and provide that CVS generally will reimburse an executive for
expenses incurred in seeking enforcement of the CVS Employment Agreement if he
prevails or, after a change in control, if the executive's assertion of rights
is in good faith and not frivolous.
 
     The CVS Employment Agreement with Mr. Ryan relates to his employment as
Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of CVS, President and Chief Executive
Officer of CVS Pharmacy Inc., and his agreement to serve as a member of the CVS
Board of Directors of CVS. The CVS Employment Agreements with Messrs. Conaway,
Nelson and Merlo relate to their employment as executive officers of CVS.
 
     Pursuant to the terms of his employment agreement with CVS, Mr. Harvey
Rosenthal (who is a former officer of CVS whose employment with CVS terminated
during 1996 and who is a current director of CVS who is not standing for
re-election at the next meeting of stockholders of the Company) will be paid his
base salary at the rate in effect on September 30, 1996 (the date of his
termination) for a period of two years, plus
 

 
$800,000 to be paid in equal monthly installments over the severance period and
a lump sum amount of $323,995 which was paid in 1996. All restrictions on
restricted stock held by Mr. Rosenthal lapsed as of his date of termination. Mr.
Rosenthal's outstanding options will continue to vest during the severance
period in accordance with the options' original schedules and will remain
exercisable for six years following his termination.
 
  Compensation of CVS Directors
 
     Summarized below are each of the components of directors compensation in
effect for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.
 
     Annual Retainer and Stock Grant.  Each director who is not an employee of
CVS receives a retainer of $25,000 per year and a fee of $1,000 for each CVS
Board or committee meeting that he or she attends. In addition, each director
who is not an employee of CVS receives an annual retainer of $2,500 for each
committee he or she chairs. One-half of the annual retainer is paid in CVS
Common Stock. At a director's election, all retainers and meeting fees may be
paid in CVS Common Stock. In accordance with the 1996 Directors Stock Plan, each
non-employee director receives an annual grant of 347 shares of CVS Common
Stock, subject to proration for any partial year of service. Receipt of shares
may be electively deferred.
 
     As of December 31, 1996, CVS' directors had deferred receipt of shares of
CVS Common Stock as follows: Mr. Bloostein, 3,558 shares; Mr. Cornwell, 1,026
shares; Mr. Gerrity, 183 shares; Mr. Jordan, 2,523 shares; Mr. Joyce, 1,393
shares, Mr. Lautenbach, 1,911 shares; Mr. Seidenberg, 1,185 shares; Ms. Stewart,
3,711 shares; and Mr. Woodward, 5,573 shares.
 
     Directors Retirement Plan.  The CVS Board of Directors determined to cease
further accruals under the Directors Retirement Plan and to permit each director
who is entitled to a benefit under the Directors Retirement Plan to elect to
receive the present value of such benefit in the form of shares of CVS Common
Stock. Each of CVS' entitled directors elected to do so.
 
     Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.  CVS has purchased directors
and officers liability insurance with a limit of $100,000,000 and pension trust
liability insurance with a limit of $50,000,000. This insurance was purchased in
layers from National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania;
Federal Insurance Company of Warren, New Jersey; Royal Indemnity Company of
Charlotte, North Carolina; Columbia Casualty Insurance Company of Chicago,
Illinois; St. Paul Surplus Lines Company of St. Paul, Minnesota; and Reliance
Insurance Company of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The pension trust liability
insurance covers actions of directors and officers as well as other employees
with fiduciary responsibilities under ERISA. All of the insurance policies
expire on June 30, 1997. The aggregate premium for these insurance policies is
$791,445 for the directors and officers liability coverage and $110,753 for the
pension trust liability coverage. It is expected that the above liability
insurance coverage will be renewed or replaced upon expiration of the above
policies.
 
  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation
 
     Mr. Ivan Seidenberg, the President and Chief Executive Officer of NYNEX,
who is one of the directors standing for re-election, serves on CVS'
Compensation Committee. Mr. Stanley Goldstein, the Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer of CVS, serves on the Board of Directors of NYNEX but does not serve on
NYNEX's Compensation Committee.
 

 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  Share Ownership Information of Current CVS Directors and Named Executive
Officers
 
     Share ownership information for current directors and executive officers
named in the Summary Compensation Table on page 12 hereof is set forth below.
Mr. Jordan and Mr. Rosenthal are current directors who are not standing for
re-election at the next meeting of stockholders of CVS.
 

 
- ---------------
  * Less than 1%.
 
(1) Unless otherwise indicated, ownership means sole voting and investment
    power. The number of shares and other information indicated in this table
    are as of February 17, 1997.
 
(2) The following shares of CVS Common Stock included above for the indicated
    persons and group are not presently owned, but are subject to options which
    were outstanding on February 17, 1997 and were exercisable within 60 days
    thereafter: Mr. Goldstein, 660,583; each of Messrs. Bloostein, Jordan,
    Woodward and Ms. Stewart, 9,240; Mr. Lautenbach, 6,930; Mr. Gerrity, 2,310;
    Mr. Seidenberg, 4,620; Messrs. Joyce and Cornwell, 3,465; Mr. Rosenthal
    411,517; Mr. Ryan, 184,316; Mr. Conaway, 93,544; Mr. Nelson, 98,163; Mr.
    Merlo, 34,473; directors and executive officers as a group, 1,588,274.
 
(3) The following shares of CVS Common Stock included above for the indicated
    persons and group were granted under CVS' Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan and,
    although no longer subject to performance standards since the one year
    performance period for these awards has expired, are subject to certain
    restrictions as to continued employment and transfer of such shares as
    provided in the plan: Mr. Goldstein, 9,177; Mr. Ryan, 33,044; Mr. Conaway,
    17,960; Mr. Nelson, 18,545; Mr. Merlo, 6,419; executive officers as a group,
    87,840.
 
(4) The CVS ESOP, established in 1989, held as of February 17, 1997, 5,526,677
    shares of CVS ESOP Preference Stock. The Bank of New York, the trustee of
    the CVS ESOP, will vote shares held by the CVS ESOP in proportion to
    instructions received from plan participants. As of December 31, 1996 the
    last date on which an allocation was made, Mr. Goldstein has been allocated
    776.619 shares; Mr. Ryan has been allocated 750.062 shares; Mr. Conaway has
    been allocated 203.498 shares; Mr. Nelson has been allocated 147.150 shares;
    Mr. Merlo has been allocated 462.799 shares; Mr. Rosenthal has been
    allocated 720.492 shares; and all executive officers as a group have been
    allocated 3,595.170 shares. These amounts have not been included in the
    above table.
 
(5) The receipt of the following shares of Common Stock received as director
    compensation has been deferred pursuant to the 1996 Directors Stock Plan:
    Mr. Bloostein, 3,558 shares; Mr. Cornwell, 1,026 shares; Mr. Gerrity, 183
    shares; Mr. Jordan, 2,523 shares; Mr. Joyce, 1,393 shares; Mr. Lautenbach,
 

 
    1,911 shares; Mr. Seidenberg, 1,185 shares; Ms. Stewart, 3,711 shares; and
    Mr. Woodward, 5,573 shares. These amounts have not been included in the 
    above table.
 
(6) Of the shares shown opposite Mr. Goldstein's name, 20,000 shares are held by
    Mr. Goldstein's wife. Mr. Goldstein disclaims beneficial ownership of such
    shares. Of the shares shown opposite Mr. Murray's name, 500 shares are held
    by a charitable foundation. Mr. Murray disclaims beneficial ownership of
    such shares.
 
  Share Ownership Information of Certain Principal Stockholders
 
     CVS is not aware of any person who owned beneficially more than 5% of the
outstanding voting securities of CVS as of February 17, 1997, except as shown in
the following table:
 

 
- ---------------
 *  This calculation is based on all outstanding shares of CVS Common Stock and
    CVS ESOP Preference Stock as of February 17, 1997. The percent of voting
    securities owned by FMR Corp., Brinson Partners, Inc. and the CVS ESOP are
    14.0%, 6.1% and 5.8%, respectively.
 
(1) FMR Corp. ("FMR") filed a statement with the SEC dated December 12, 1996 on
    Schedule 13G under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as the parent
    holding company in accordance with Rule 13d-1(b)(ii)(G) of such Act,
    disclosing beneficial ownership of greater than 5% of CVS Common Stock
    (15,947,754 shares). According to the statement, FMR and/or subsidiaries
    have sole voting power with respect to 951,613 of such shares and sole
    dispositive power over all of these shares, and FMR has certified that all
    of these shares were acquired in the ordinary course of business, and not
    for the purpose of changing or influencing the control of CVS.
 
(2) Share ownership information relating to Brinson Partners, Inc. set forth in
    the table above is based on information contained in a 13(f) Filing Report
    obtained from CDA/Spectrum as of August 31, 1996.
 
(3) Each participant in the CVS ESOP instructs the Trustee of the CVS ESOP how
    to vote his or her shares. As to unallocated shares and shares with respect
    to which the Trustee receives no timely voting instructions, the Trustee,
    pursuant to the ESOP Trust Agreement, votes these shares in the same
    proportion as it votes all of the shares with respect to which it has
    received timely voting instructions. Currently, each share of CVS ESOP
    Preference Stock is entitled to approximately 1.2 votes per share on all
    matters submitted to a vote of the holders of CVS Common Stock, voting
    together with the holders of CVS Common Stock as a single class.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Not Applicable
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     ITEM 14(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.
 
     ITEM 14(a)(1) AND (2) The consolidated financial statements of CVS
Corporation incorporated herein by reference to the Annual Report to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 and the related
consolidated financial statement schedule are set forth in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page 24 hereof. See "Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data" at Item 8 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Other financial statement schedules have not been included because they are not
applicable or the information is included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.
 
     ITEM 14(a)(3) Exhibits
 
     The following is a list of exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
 

 

 

 
     ITEM 14(b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     The Company filed a Report on Form 8-K on December 6, 1996 reporting on the
initial public offering of Linens 'n Things, Inc., an indirect subsidiary of
CVS. On December 2, 1996, through its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary, Nashua
Hollis CVS, Inc., CVS consummated an initial underwritten public offering of
13,000,000 shares of the common stock of Linens 'n Things, Inc., an indirect
subsidiary of CVS, at a price to the public of $15.50 per share.
 
     The Company filed a Report on Form 8-K on October 28, 1996 reporting on the
spin-off of Footstar, Inc. ("Footstar") through the October 12, 1996
distribution by Melville of 100% of the shares of Footstar common stock to its
shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 2, 1996.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          CVS CORPORATION
 
Date: March 31, 1997                      By: /s/   STANLEY P. GOLDSTEIN
                                              ----------------------------------
                                                    STANLEY P. GOLDSTEIN,
                                            CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 

 

 
                    CVS CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
 
            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
 
     The consolidated financial statements of CVS Corporation together with the
report on such consolidated financial statements of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP dated
February 6, 1997 which appear on the pages listed below of the 1996 Annual
Report to Shareholders, are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.
 

 

 
     Schedules not included above have been omitted because they are not
applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
statements or related notes.
 

 
                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
of CVS Corporation:
 
     We consent to incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
Numbers 33-40251, 33-17181, 2-97913, 2-77397 and 2-53766 on Form S-8 of CVS
Corporation of our report dated February 6, 1997, relating to the consolidated
balance sheets of CVS Corporation as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the
related consolidated statement of operations, shareholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1996,
which report is incorporated by reference in the December 31, 1996 annual report
on Form 10-K of CVS Corporation and to our report dated February 6, 1997 on the
related financial statement schedule, which report appears in the December 31,
1996 annual report on Form 10-K of CVS Corporation.
 
     Our reports refer to the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards
Board's Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of"
effective October 1, 1995.
 
Providence, Rhode Island
March 28, 1997
 
                                       F-1

 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
of CVS Corporation:
 
     Under date of February 6, 1997, we reported on the consolidated balance
sheets of CVS Corporation as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and related
consolidated statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1996, as contained
in the 1996 annual report to shareholders. These consolidated financial
statements and our report thereon are incorporated by reference in the annual
report on Form 10-K for the year 1996. In connection with our audits of the
aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related
consolidated financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index.
This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial
statement schedule based on our audits.
 
     In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
     As discussed on page 41 of the Annual Report to Shareholders, the Company
adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets and Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" effective October 1,
1995.
 
Providence, Rhode Island
February 6, 1997
 
                                       F-2

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                                CVS CORPORATION
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 

 
(1) Write-offs, net of recoveries
 
                                       S-1

