ITEM 1- BUSINESS



General Developments



Financial Highlights



In the year endedMay 31, 2012, or fiscal 2012, revenue increased18% to$2,203.8 millionfrom$1,859.8 millionin the year ended May 31, 2011, or fiscal 2011.  This revenue growth was primarily due to growth in most of our markets around the world and also due to the impact of our acquisition in Spain on December 20, 2010.



Consolidated operating income was$307.3 millionfor fiscal 2012, compared to$331.6 millionfor fiscal 2011.  Consolidated operating income for fiscal 2012 includes processing system intrusion costs of$84.4 million.  Net income attributable to Global Payments decreased $21.0 million, or 10%, to$188.2 millionin fiscal 2012 from$209.2 millionin the prior year, resulting in a $0.23 decrease in diluted earnings per share to$2.37in fiscal 2012 from$2.60in fiscal 2011.



North America merchant services segment revenue increased$204.4 millionor15% to$1,567.3 millionin fiscal 2012 from$1,362.9 millionin fiscal 2011.  North America merchant services segment operating income increased to$281.3 millionin fiscal 2012 from$268.2 millionin fiscal 2011, with operating margins of17.9%and19.7%for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.



International merchant services segment revenue increased$139.7 millionor28% to$636.6 millionin fiscal 2012 from$496.9 millionin fiscal 2011.  International merchant services operating income also increased to$196.1 millionin fiscal 2012 from$143.9 millionin fiscal 2011, with operating margins of30.8%and29.0%for fiscal 2012 and 2011, respectively.



Refer to “Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a detailed explanation of these results.



Fiscal 2012 Acquisitions



During the fiscal year 2012 we completed three targeted acquisitions which expanded our International and e-commerce presence. In December 2011, our UCS subsidiary acquired Alfa-Bank's merchant acquiring business. Alfa-Bank is the largest privately owned bank in Russia.  In December 2011, we also acquired a merchant acquiring business in Malta and in January 2012 acquired a U.S. e-commerce portfolio. The aggregate purchase price for these three transactions was approximately $44 million.



Business Description



Global Payments Inc. is a leading provider of electronic payments transaction processing services for consumers, merchants, Independent Sales Organizations (“ISO”s), financial institutions, government agencies and multi-national corporations located throughout the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region, the Czech Republic, and the Russian Federation.  We serve as an intermediary to facilitate electronic payment transactions and operate in two business segments, North America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services.We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000, and we spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001.  Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments business since 1967.



Our North America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services segments target customers in many vertical industries including financial institutions, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, nonprofit organizations and utilities.  Please see Note 14 in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional segment information and “Item 1A - Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks involved with our operations.



Merchant Services Overview



Our merchant acquiring services are similar around the world in that we accept a variety of card and electronic based payments at the point of sale.  The majority of our business model provides payment products and services directly to merchants as our end customers. We also provide similar products and services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that,









in turn, resell our products and services, in which case, the financial institutions and select ISOs are our end customers. These particular services are marketed in the United States, Canada, and parts of Eastern Europe.





The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type.  We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.  The majority of credit cards and signature debit cards, which are only a U.S. based card type, are based on a percentage of transaction value along with other related fees, while PIN debit cards are typically a fee per transaction.



Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing



Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the payment card industry.  During a typical card transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers.  Merchant acquirers are typically financial institutions or independent processors like Global Payments.  Global Payments performs a series of services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution.















We also provide credit card transaction processing for Discover Financial Services or Discover Card (“Discover”) and are designated as an acquirer by Discover.  This designation provides us with a direct relationship between us and Discover, and therefore a Member sponsorship is not required.  Our agreement with Discover allows us to route and clear transactions directly through Discover's network.  Otherwise, we process Discover transactions similarly to the way we process MasterCard and Visa transactions.  Discover publishes acquirer operating regulations with which we must comply.  We use our Members to assist in funding merchants for Discover transactions.



Additionally, we provide credit and debit card transaction processing for China Unionpay (“CUP”) in selected markets and through a variety of methods, and are either designated as an acquirer by China Unionpay or are sponsored by a China Unionpay member institution. China Unionpay publishes acquirer operating regulations with which we must comply.  We use our Members to assist in funding merchants for China Unionpay  transactions.



How a Card Transaction Works



A typical card transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a POS terminal card reader, which may be sold or leased, and serviced by Global Payments.  Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of products that we offer directly or through a value added reseller (“VAR”).  The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased.



After the card and transaction information is captured by the POS device, the terminal automatically either dials a pre-programmed phone number or otherwise connects to our network through the internet or other communication channels in order to receive authorization of the transaction.  For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits.  In a debit card transaction, the company obtains authorization for the transaction from the card issuer through the payment network verifying that the cardholder has sufficient funds for the transaction.



Timing differences, interchange expense, merchant reserves and exception items cause differences between the amount the Member receives from the card networks and the amount funded to the merchants.  The standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant is funded.  However, in practice and in accordance with the terms of our sponsorship agreements with our Members, we generally follow a net settlement process by region whereby, if the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the Member's funding obligation to the merchant, we temporarily hold the surplus on behalf of the Member, in an account at the Member bank, and record a corresponding liability.  Conversely, if the Member's funding obligation to the merchant precedes the incoming amount from the card networks, the amount of the Member's net receivable position is either subsequently advanced to the Member by us or the Member satisfies this obligation with its own funds.  If the Member uses its own funds, the Member assesses a funding cost.  Each participant in the transaction process receives compensation for its services.



As an illustration, on a $100.00 credit card transaction, the card issuer may fund the Member $98.50 after retaining approximately $1.50 referred to as an interchange fee or interchange expense.  The card issuer seeks reimbursement of $100.00 from the cardholder in the cardholder's monthly credit card bill.  The Member would, in turn, pay the merchant $100.00.  The net settlement after this transaction would require Global Payments to advance the Member $1.50.  After the end of the month, we would bill the merchant a percentage of the transaction, or discount, to cover the full amount of the interchange fee and our net revenue from the transaction.  If our net revenue from the merchant in the above example was 0.5%, we would bill the merchant $2.00 at the end of the month for the transaction, reimburse ourselves for approximately $1.50 in interchange fees and retain $0.50 as our revenue for the transaction.  Our profit on the transaction reflects the revenue less operating expenses, including the network and systems cost to process the transaction (including assessments) and commissions paid to our sales force or ISO.  Assessments are fees charged by Visa and MasterCard based on the dollar value of transactions processed through their networks.



Business Segments



North America Merchant Services Segment



North America merchant services revenues represent 71% of our total consolidated fiscal 2012 revenues and include operations in the United States and Canada.  In the United States, we sell our services via ISOs, a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and VAR referral arrangements, as well as proprietary telesales groups.











Our ISO channel targets a variety of merchant types with typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less.  The ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs' requirements.  These contracts are multi-year and priced by service on a per transaction basis.  The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring products and services, with the majority of Global Payments ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring.  Because Global Payments is a primary party to the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor relationship, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant is recorded as revenue.  The excess of revenue earned over the ISO contractual transaction fee (plus assessments) is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in Sales, general and administrative expenses.



Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from our agent bank, VAR and trade association referral partners signing a variety of mid-to-large sized merchants with annual bankcard volume on average above $300,000.  Our merchant portfolio is also increased by targeted campaigns and other lead generating efforts by our direct sales force.  Our sales force is paid a combination of base salary and commission. Our referral partners are paid various referral fees.



Our United States revenue also includes check and gaming services and indirect merchant services.  Our check products offer merchant customers risk management alternatives, in the case of our verification and recovery offerings, or risk elimination, in the case of our guarantee offerings, by leveraging our internal and external databases of checkwriters to help decide whether the merchant should accept a check as the form of payment from a particular checkwriter.  Our check services products are part of our direct merchant service offering.



The majority of check services involve providing check guarantee services for checks received by merchants.  Under the guarantee service, when a merchant receives a check in payment for goods and services, the transaction is submitted and analyzed by the Company. The Company either accepts or declines the check for warranty coverage under its guarantee service.  If the Company approves the check for warranty coverage and the merchant accepts the check, the merchant will either deposit the check in its bank account or process it for settlement through the company's electronic check acceptance service.  If the check is returned unpaid by the merchant's bank and the returned check meets the requirements for warranty coverage, the Company is required to purchase the check from the merchant at its face value.    The Company then owns the purchased check and pursues collection of the check from the check writer.  As a result, the Company bears the risk of loss if the company is unable to collect the returned check from the check writer.  We earn a fee for each check guaranteed, which generally is determined as a percentage of the check amount.



In the specialized vertical market of gaming, our VIP LightSpeed proprietary software and VIP Preferred Advantage product provide the gaming industry with the tools necessary to establish revolving check cashing limits for a casino's customers.  Our gaming products allow fast access to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk.  We derive revenue from our gaming products primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value.



International Merchant Services Segment



International merchant services revenues represent 29% of our total consolidated fiscal 2012 revenues and include operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.  Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Czech Republic, and the Russian Federation.  Our Asia-Pacific region includes the following eleven countries and territories: Brunei, China, Hong Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan.  We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships.  In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services.



Total revenues from our segments, by geography, are as follows (amounts in thousands):











Year Ended May 31,201220112010Revenues:United States$1,234,818$1,031,997$902,844Canada332,434330,872317,272North America merchant services1,567,2521,362,8691,220,116Europe489,300359,567315,023Asia-Pacific147,295137,366107,329International merchant services636,595496,933422,352Consolidated revenues$2,203,847$1,859,802$1,642,468



Industry Overview and Target Markets



Industry Overview



Payment processing service providers offer high-volume electronic transaction payment processing and support services directly to merchants, multinational corporations, financial institutions and ISOs.



We are a leading mid-market and small-market merchant acquirer in the United States and we primarily compete with First Data Corporation, Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech, Wells Fargo, Vantiv, Heartland Payment Systems and Elavon.



In Canada, we have a significant market share we believe to be second to Moneris Solutions.  Moneris Solutions is a joint venture between the Royal Bank of Canada and the Bank of Montreal.  We also consider Chase Paymentech Solutions and TD Merchant Services to be major competitors in the Canadian market.



In the European and Asia-Pacific regions, financial institutions remain the dominant providers of payment processing services to merchants, although the outsourcing of merchant processing services to third party service providers is becoming more prevalent.  Processing services have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at a competitive price.



In the United Kingdom, we believe we hold the number three market position compared to our primary competitors WorldPay and Barclays.  In Spain, we hold the number one market share position and our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A and Caja Madrid, although all banks offer some form of card processing in line with the traditional full service model in the market.  While we have a market leading position with our partner Caixa Bank, we are expecting similar models to become more prevalent as further consolidation occurs in the banking sector.  We believe we hold the number one market share position in The Russian Federation in a highly fragmented payments market. Our competition is made up of various financial institutions, including Sberbank, VTB, Raiffeisen Bank, and Russian Standard Bank.  In the Czech Republic, our primary competitors are First Data, SiNSYS, and Euronet.  In the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competition is from financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services in each of our eleven markets.



As a result of continued growth in our industry, several large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations both domestically and internationally.  This expansion has come in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint ventures.  We believe that the electronic payment transaction processing industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that do not have the necessary infrastructure to participate in a highly competitive environment look to exit the business.



We believe the number of electronic transactions will continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these transactions will be processed through emerging technologies.  To help our customers reduce their transaction costs and accelerate the transaction approval process, we have integrated new technologies into our service offerings such as internet protocol communications and check truncation or conversion at the point of sale.  In order to support and integrate payments into our merchants' various business solutions utilized through Value-Added Resellers (VARs), the company created a developer portal simplifying the payment enablement process with multiple VARs.  We are also able to offer our customers integrated ecommerce solutions.  Through our VAR relationships, we have several products that support radio frequency identification for contactless payment cards as well as near field communication enabled Smartphones that contain mobile wallet software, which









position Global Payments to participate in the mobile payments market. We also offer our customers the ability of accepting payments utilizing a mobile device as a point of sale terminal. As mobile payments continue to evolve and are desired by merchants and consumers, we intend to continue partnering with VARs and developing new products and services that will exploit the benefits that these new technologies can offer our customers.  We also believe that new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions.  Industries such as e-commerce, healthcare, education, government, recurring payments, and business-to-business should continue to see transaction volumes migrate to more electronic-based settlement solutions.  We believe that the continued development of new products and services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business for the foreseeable future.



Target Markets



We believe that significant global opportunities exist for growth in the application of electronic transaction payment processing services.  Although the United States accounts for the largest payment processing volume in the world, global expansion by financial institutions into new geographies and the increased recognition by governments of the role of payment cards in facilitating economic growth are rapidly transforming the electronic commerce market into a global opportunity.



The growth of card transactions correlates with the historic growth of our business.  According toThe Nilson Reportdated April 2012, worldwide annual general purpose card purchase volume increased 18.5% to $11.2 trillion in 2011.  General purpose cards include the major card networks brands such as Visa, MasterCard, American Express, China UnionPay, JCB, and Diners Club.  In Canada, general purpose cards also include Interac debit cards.



The Nilson Reportdated February 2012 estimates that more than $3.6 trillion of annual consumer spending was charged in 2011 using general purpose cards in the United States, a 10.4% increase from 2010.The Nilson Reportdated March 2012 reported that $533.1 billion (United States Dollars) of annual Canadian consumer spending uses general purpose cards as the form of payment, representing an increase of 7.3% from 2010.The Nilson Reportdated June 2012 estimates that $2.4 trillion of annual consumer spending was charged in 2011 using general purpose cards in Europe, a 11% increase from 2010.  We process in eleven countries and territories in the Asia-Pacific region.  These markets include almost 39% of the world's population and 71% of the total Asia-Pacific population according to theCIA World Factbook.  We believe there are significant, long-term growth opportunities for payment processing in this region.



Strategy



We seek to leverage the rapid adoption of, and transition to, card and electronic based payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels and through acquisitions and also enter new markets through acquisitions in the Americas, the Asia-Pacific region and Europe.  We intend to continue to invest in and leverage our technology infrastructure and our people, thereby maximizing shareholder value.  We intend to accomplish this overall strategy by increasing our penetration of existing markets and further leveraging our infrastructure.  Our objectives include:



•grow our direct merchant services market share by concentrating on the small and mid-market merchant segments, while selectively targeting national merchants that meet our profitability criteria;

•expand our direct merchant services distribution channels, including our existing sales force, ISOs, original equipment manufacturer (“OEMs”), VARs, e-commerce, mobile wallet software and other referral relationships;

•focus on the highest potential markets and channels including emerging technologies;

•continue to develop a seamless, multinational acquiring platform and solutions for leading global customers;

•provide the best possible customer service at levels that exceed our competitors while leveraging our global infrastructure by investing in technology, training and product enhancements;

•provide enhanced products and services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing products and developing new systems and services to blend technology with our customer needs;

•drive efficiencies throughout our technology infrastructure by continual systems integrations where applicable;

•pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions or investments in and alliances with companies that have high growth potential or significant market presence and operate in profitable sectors of payments-related industries through compatible technology, products and services, and development and distribution capabilities;and

•focus on international markets with high payments industry growth or significant market presence in Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin America.



Safeguarding Our Business



Privacy and security are central to our service.  We work with information security and forensics firms  and employ advanced technologies to investigate and address issues related to processing system security.  We also work with industry third









parties, regulators and law enforcement to fully resolve  security incidents and assist in efforts to prevent unauthorized access to our processing system.



In early March of this year, we identified and self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our processing system.  We have concluded our investigation, and we believe that a limited portion of our North American card processing system was affected.  We do not believe our International card processing systems were similarly accessed.



As a result of this event, certain card networks removed us from their list of Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, referred to as PCI DSS, compliant service providers. We have hired a Qualified Security Assessor, or QSA, to conduct an independent review of the PCI DSS compliance of our systems.  Once that review is complete and we conclude the required remediation, we will work closely with the networks to return to the lists of PCI DSS compliant service providers as quickly as possible. We continue to sign new merchants and process transactions around the world for all card networks.



The investigation also revealed potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from a subset of merchant applicants.  It is unclear whether any such information was exported; however, we notified potentially-affected individuals and made available credit monitoring and identity protection insurance at no cost to the individual.



We believe that the incident is contained and have significantly enhanced our hardware and software systems, network monitoring and security procedures.



Employees



As of May 31, 2012, we had 3,796 employees.  Many of our employees are highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction payment processing.  We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key technical employees.



Government Regulation



Various aspects of our business are subject to regulation and supervision under federal, state and local laws in the United States, as well as laws and regulations that affect the electronic payments industry in the countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to rules promulgated by the various payment networks, including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express and Interac; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; as well as a variety of other regulations, including escheat laws and applicable privacy and information security regulations.  In addition, because we provide data processing services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC). Set forth below is a brief summary of some of the significant laws and regulations that apply to the Company. These descriptions are not exhaustive and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provision.



The Dodd-Frank Act





The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), which was established to, among other things, identify risks to the stability of the U.S. financial system.  The FSOC has the authority to require supervision and regulation of nonbank financial companies by the Federal Reserve if the FSOC determines either that (i) material financial









distress at the nonbank financial company or (ii) the nature, scope, size, scale, concentration, interconnectedness, or mix of activities of the nonbank financial company could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.  Separately, the FSOC has the authority to designate financial market utilities (“FMUs”) and financial institutions engaged in payment, clearing and settlement (“PCS”) activities as systemically important if the FSOC determines that failure or disruption to the functioning of the FMU or conduct of the PCS activities could threaten the stability of the U.S. financial system. Such a designation will subject the FMU or financial institution to oversight and risk management standards established by the Federal Reserve (in consultation with the FSOC and certain other applicable regulatory agencies). Early indications suggest that the FSOC is focused on the regulation of financial services companies that operate unregulated wholesale transfer systems or engage in largely unregulated commodities, derivatives and currency markets, and not on entities such as the Company.



Payment Network Rules



We are subject to the rules of MasterCard, Visa, Discover and Interac, and other payment networks.  In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with Visa and MasterCard as service providers for member institutions and with other networks. Accordingly, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions.



Banking Laws and Regulations



Because we provide data processing and technology services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC).  The FFIEC is an interagency body comprised of the federal bank and credit union regulators (the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection). The FFIEC examines large data processors in order to recognize and supervise risks associated with systemically significant service providers and the risk they may pose to the banking industry. In addition, we are subject to Directive 2007/60 EC in the European Union (“the Payment Services Directive”), which was implemented in most European Union member states through national legislation. As a result of this legislation, we are subject to regulation and oversight in certain EU member nations, including the requirement that we maintain specified regulatory capital.



Privacy and Information Security Laws



We provide services that may be subject to various state, federal and foreign privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which applies to a broad range of financial institutions and to companies that provide services to financial institutions. We are also subject to foreign data protection and privacy laws.  Among other things, these foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information.  These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and removal or elimination of personal information. Certain state laws also restrict the ability of the Company to collect and utilize certain types of information such as Social Security and driver's license numbers.



Anti-money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Requirements



Regulations issued by the U.S. Treasury Office Department of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") place prohibitions and restrictions on all U.S. citizens and entities, including the Company, with respect to transactions by U.S. persons with specified countries and individuals and entities identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals list (for example, individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, countries subject to certain economic and trade sanctions, as well as terrorists, terrorist organizations and narcotics traffickers identified by OFAC under programs that are not country specific).  Similar requirements apply to transactions and to dealings with persons and entities specified in lists maintained in other countries. We have developed procedures and controls that are designed to monitor and address legal and regulatory requirements and developments and that allow our customers to protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities.



Debt Collection Laws



Our subsidiary, Global Payments Check Services, Inc., is subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state laws in connection with its check guarantee service, which guarantees the payment of checks on behalf of certain merchants. These laws are designed to eliminate abusive, deceptive, and unfair debt collection practices and require licensing at the state level. Global Payments Check Services, Inc. has procedures in place to comply with the requirements of these laws and is licensed in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states.











Escheat Laws



We are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property laws in the U.S. and in foreign countries that require us to transfer to certain government authorities the unclaimed property of others that we hold when that property has been unclaimed for a certain period of time.  Moreover, we are subject to audit by state regulatory authorities with regard to our escheatment practices.



Where to Find More Information



We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website at www.sec.gov.  In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor information section of our website at www.globalpaymentsinc.com free of charge.  Certain materials relating to our corporate governance, including our senior financial officers' code of ethics, are also available in the investor information section of our website.  Copies of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Form 10-K.  You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at (770) 829-8234.  We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report.



Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room, and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol “GPN.”



SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, DC  20549

(You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.)



NYSE Euronext

20 Broad Street

New York, NY  10005

















