ITEM 1—BUSINESS



General Developments



Financial Highlights



In the year ended May 31, 2010, or fiscal 2010, revenue
increased 12% to $1,642.5 million from $1,462.3 million in the year ended May 31, 2009, or fiscal 2009. This revenue growth was primarily due to growth in most of our direct merchant acquiring markets around the world.



Consolidated operating income was $323.3 million for fiscal
2010, compared to $292.5 million for fiscal 2009. Income from continuing operations attributable to Global Payments increased $37.2 million or 22% to $207.2 million ($2.52 per diluted share) in fiscal 2010 from $170.0 million ($2.10 per diluted
share) in fiscal 2009, and our operation margin moved from 20% in fiscal 2009 to 19.7% in fiscal 2010. Net income attributable to Global Payments increased $166.1 million, or 446%, to $203.3 million in fiscal 2010 from $37.2 million in the prior
year, resulting in a $2.02 increase in diluted earnings per share to $2.48 in fiscal 2010 from $0.46 in fiscal 2009. Fiscal 2009 net income attributable to Global Payments includes an impairment charge of $147.7 million related to our recently
disposed money transfer business.



North America
merchant services segment revenue increased $113.3 million or 10% to $1,220.1 million in fiscal 2010 from $1,106.9 million in fiscal 2009. North America merchant services segment operating income increased slightly to $275.4 million in fiscal 2010
from $273.0 million in fiscal 2009, with operating margins of 22.6% and 24.7% for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively.



International merchant services segment revenue increased $66.9 million or 19% to $422.4 million in fiscal 2010 from $355.5 million in
fiscal 2009. International merchant services operating income also increased to $113.7 million in fiscal 2010 from $82.8 million in fiscal 2009, with operating margins of 26.9% and 23.3% for fiscal 2010 and 2009, respectively.



Refer to “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a detailed explanation of these results.



Fiscal 2010 Disposition



On May 26, 2010, we completed the disposition of our DolEx and Europhil-branded money transfer businesses to an affiliate of
Palladium Equity Partners, LLC for $85.0 million. We recognized an estimated pre-tax loss on disposal of $24.6 million. We also recognized $15.7 million of tax benefits associated with the disposition. As a result of our decision to dispose of the
money transfer businesses, this segment has been accounted for as a discontinued operation. Amounts related to our discontinued operations in our prior fiscal years statements of income have been reclassified to conform with the presentation in the
current fiscal year. Please see Note 3—Discontinued Operations in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information.



Fiscal 2010 Acquisitions



HSBC Merchant Services LLP



On June 12, 2009, we purchased the remaining 49% of HSBC Merchant Services LLP from HSBC Bank plc for $307.7 million in cash. We
used then existing lines of credit to complete the transaction. These line of credit borrowings were subsequently repaid on July 10, 2009, with proceeds from a $300.0 million term loan agreement. In addition, HSBC extended our current
ten-year exclusive marketing alliance agreement under which the bank provides us with merchant referrals and bank sponsorship in the United Kingdom until June 2019.







Index to Financial Statements

Auctionpay, Inc.



On September 28, 2009, we completed the acquisition of
Auctionpay, Inc., a provider of fully integrated payment processing and software solutions for fundraising activities for $22.0 million in cash. The purpose of this acquisition was to expand our direct acquiring business into a vertical market that,
to date, is still heavily dependent on cash and check as the primary means of payment. Auctionpay, Inc. is currently known as Greater Giving.



Business Description



Global Payments Inc. is a leading provider of electronic payments transaction processing services for consumers, merchants, Independent
Sales Organizations (“ISO”s), financial institutions, government agencies and multi-national corporations located throughout the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Asia-Pacific region, the Czech Republic and the Russian
Federation. We serve as an intermediary to facilitate payments transactions and operate in two business segments, North America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in
September 2000, and we spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments business since 1967.



Our North America Merchant Services and International
Merchant Services segments target customers in many vertical industries including financial institutions, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, nonprofit organizations and utilities. Please see
Note 13 in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional segment information and “Item 1A—Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks involved with our operations.



Merchant Services Overview





Indirect merchant services provides the same basic products and services as our direct merchant services model, primarily to financial
institutions and a limited number of ISOs on an unbundled basis, that in turn resell our products and services to merchants. These services are marketed in the United States, Canada and parts of Eastern Europe, primarily in the Czech Republic and
the Russian Federation. We also offer sales, installation and servicing of ATM and point of sale (“POS”) terminals, and selected card issuing services such as card management and personalization, and provide payment processing for ATM
providers and Card Issuers, through Global Payments Europe and ZAO United Card Service ( “UCS”), which are also components of indirect merchant services.







Index to Financial Statements

Direct merchant services revenue is generated on services primarily priced as a percentage
of transaction value, whereas indirect merchant services revenue is generated on services primarily priced as a specified fee per transaction. In both merchant services models, we also charge other fees unrelated to the number of transactions or the
transaction value.



Credit and Debit Card Transaction
Processing



Credit and debit networks
establish uniform regulations that govern much of the industry. During a typical card transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers. Merchant acquirers are typically
financial institutions or independent processors like Global Payments. Global Payments performs a series of services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate the funds settlement and certain exception-based,
back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution.





In order to provide credit and signature-based debit card
transaction processing services, we must be designated as a certified processor by MasterCard and Visa in addition to being a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and an Independent Sales Organization by Visa. Currently, these designations are
dependent upon member clearing banks of either organization sponsoring us and our adherence to the standards of the Visa and MasterCard networks. A financial institution that is a member of the Visa and/or MasterCard card networks (which we refer to
in this discussion as Member) must sponsor an electronic transaction payment processor such as Global Payments. We have five primary financial institution sponsors in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Asia-Pacific region and the
Russian Federation with whom we have sponsorship or depository and processing agreements. These agreements allow us to route Visa and MasterCard transactions under the member banks’ control and identification numbers to clear credit card
transactions through Visa and MasterCard. Visa and MasterCard set the standards with which we must comply.



We also provide credit card transaction processing for Discover Financial Services or Discover Card (“Discover”) and are
designated as an acquirer by Discover. This designation provides us with a direct relationship between us and Discover, and therefore a Member sponsorship is not required. Our agreement with Discover allows us to route and clear transactions
directly through Discover’s network. Otherwise, we process Discover transactions similarly to the way we process MasterCard and Visa transactions. Discover publishes acquirer operating regulations with which we must comply. We use our Members
to assist in funding merchants for Discover transactions.



How a Card Transaction Works



A card transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a
POS terminal card reader, which may be provided by Global Payments.







Index to Financial Statements

Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of products that we offer directly or through a value added
reseller. The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the credit card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased.



After the card and transaction information is captured by the
POS device, the terminal automatically either dials a pre-programmed phone number or otherwise connects to our network through the internet or other communication in order to receive authorization of the transaction. For a credit card transaction,
authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits. We route
the request to the applicable credit or debit network. The credit or debit network forwards the authorization request to the card issuer, who determines a response based on the status of the cardholder’s account. The response is returned to the
merchant’s terminal via the same communication network. This entire authorization and response process occurs within seconds.



Timing differences, interchange expenses, merchant reserves and exception items cause differences between the amount the Member receives
from the card networks and the amount funded to the merchants. The standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the
Member until the merchant is funded. However, in practice and in accordance with the terms of our sponsorship agreements with our Members, we generally follow a net settlement process whereby, if the incoming amount from the card networks precedes
the Member’s funding obligation to the merchant, we temporarily hold the surplus on behalf of the Member, in a joint deposit account or in an account at the Member bank, and record a corresponding liability. Conversely, if the Member’s
funding obligation to the merchant precedes the incoming amount from the card networks, the amount of the Member’s net receivable position is either subsequently advanced to the Member by us or the Member satisfies this obligation with its own
funds. If the Member uses its own funds, the Member assesses a funding cost. Each participant in the transaction process receives compensation for its services.



As an illustration, on a $100.00 credit card transaction, the card issuer may fund the Member $98.50 after retaining approximately $1.50
referred to as an interchange fee or interchange expense. The card issuer seeks reimbursement of $100.00 from the cardholder in the cardholder’s monthly credit card bill. The Member would, in turn, pay the merchant $100.00. The net settlement
after this transaction would require Global Payments to advance the Member $1.50. After the end of the month, we would bill the merchant a percentage of the transaction, or discount, to cover the full amount of the interchange fee and our net
revenue from the transaction. If our net revenue from the merchant in the above example was 0.5%, we would bill the merchant $2.00 at the end of the month for the transaction, reimburse ourselves for approximately $1.50 in interchange fees and
retain $0.50 as our net revenue for the transaction. Our gross profit on the transaction reflects the net revenue less operating expenses, including the network and systems cost to process the transaction (including assessments) and commissions paid
to our sales force or ISO. Assessments are fees charged by Visa and MasterCard based on the dollar value of transactions processed through their networks.



North America Merchant Services Segment



North America merchant services revenues represent 74% of our total consolidated fiscal 2010 revenues and include operations in the United
States and Canada. In the United States, we sell our services via ISOs, a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and VAR referral arrangements, as well as proprietary telesales groups.



Our ISO channel targets a variety of merchant types with
typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less. The ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs’ requirements. These contracts are multi-year and priced by service on a per transaction
basis. The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring products and services, with the majority of Global’s ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring. Because Global Payments is a primary party to







Index to Financial Statements

the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor relationship, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant is recorded as revenue. The excess of revenue earned over the ISO
contractual transaction fee (plus assessments) is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in Sales, general and administrative expenses.



Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from our
agent bank, value added reseller and trade association referral partners signing a variety of mid-to-large sized merchants with annual bankcard volume on average above $300,000. Our sales force is paid a combination of base salary and commission.



Our United States revenue also includes check and
gaming services and indirect merchant services. Our check products offer merchant customers risk management alternatives, in the case of our verification and recovery offerings, or risk elimination, in the case of our guarantee offerings, by
leveraging our internal and external databases of checkwriters to help decide whether the merchant should accept a check as the form of payment from a particular checkwriter. Our check services products are part of our direct merchant service
offering.



Check guarantee services include
comprehensive check verification and guarantee services designed for a merchant’s specific needs and risk adversity. This service guarantees payment of all checks that are electronically verified. If a verified check is dishonored, our service
generally provides the merchant with reimbursement of the check’s face value, and then we pursue collection of the check through our internal collection services. While we have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the
checkwriter, we have historically recovered less than 100% of the guaranteed checks. We derive revenue for these services primarily by charging the merchant a percentage of the face value of each guaranteed check. Check verification and recovery
services are similar to those provided in the check guarantee service, except that these services do not guarantee payment of the verified checks. We derive revenues for these services primarily from the service fees collected from delinquent check
writers, fees charged to merchants based on a transaction rate per verified check and fees charged to merchants for specialized services such as electronic re-deposits of dishonored checks.



In the specialized vertical market of gaming, our VIP
LightSpeed proprietary software and VIP Preferred Advantage product provide the gaming industry with the tools necessary to establish revolving check cashing limits for a casino’s customers. Our gaming products allow fast access
to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk. We derive revenue from our gaming products primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value.



In Canada we sell our services primarily through our direct
sales force leveraging our bank referral relationships. Unlike the United States, approximately 60% of payment transactions in Canada are PIN-based debit transactions, primarily through Interac.



International Merchant Services Segment



International merchant services revenues represent 26% of
our total consolidated fiscal 2010 revenues and include operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. Our Asia-Pacific region
includes the following eleven countries and territories: Brunei, China, Hong Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan. We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, the Russian Federation and the
Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships. In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services.







Index to Financial Statements

Total revenues from our segments, by geography, are as follows (amounts in thousands):



Year Ended May 31,201020092008Revenues:United States$902,844$805,557$731,214Canada317,272301,294267,249North America merchant services1,220,1161,106,851998,463Europe315,023265,12159,778Asia-Pacific107,32990,33472,367International merchant services422,352355,455132,145Consolidated revenues$1,642,468$1,462,306$1,130,608



Industry Overview and Target Markets



Industry Overview



Payment processing service providers offer high-volume electronic transaction payment processing and support services directly to
financial institutions, merchants, multinational corporations, and ISOs. Generally, the payment processing market in the United States and Canada continues to transition from traditional financial institution providers to independent merchant
acquirers such as Global Payments. We believe merchants seek more efficient distribution channels, as well as increased technological capabilities required for the rapid and efficient creation, processing, handling, storage and retrieval of
information.



Based onThe Nilson Report,
dated March 2010, we are a leading mid-market and small-market merchant acquirer in the United States and we compete with First Data Corporation, Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech and Elavon.



In Canada, we have a significant market share second to our
primary competitor, Moneris Solutions. Moneris Solutions is a joint venture between the Royal Bank of Canada and the Bank of Montreal. We also consider Chase Paymentech Solutions and TD Merchant Services to be major competitors in the Canadian
market.



In the European and Asia-Pacific regions,
financial institutions remain the dominant providers of payment processing services to merchants, although the outsourcing of merchant processing services to third party service providers is becoming more prevalent. Processing services have become
increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at a competitive price.



Our primary competitors in the United Kingdom are the Royal
Bank of Scotland and Barclays. The Russian Federation payments market is highly fragmented and our competition is made up of various financial institutions, including Sberbank, Alfa Bank, VTB, Raiffeisen Bank, and Russian Standard Bank. In the Czech
Republic, our primary competitors are First Data, SiNSYS, and Euronet. In the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competition is from financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services as well as Merchant Solutions, which is a joint venture
between First Data and Standard Chartered PLC.



As
a result of continued growth in our industry, several large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations both domestically and internationally. This expansion has come in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint
ventures. We believe that the electronic payment transaction processing industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that do not have the necessary infrastructure to participate in a highly competitive environment look
to exit the business.







Index to Financial Statements

In the Canadian market, Visa, MasterCard and Interac are planning to migrate to cards
containing chip technology over the coming years. Chip card technology is already prevalent in the European and Asia-Pacific markets. Chip technology provides the ability to process payment transactions securely by protecting the cardholder
information in an encrypted and confidential manner. The chip is difficult to copy and has the additional capacity to be personalized by a card issuer, including the ability to be programmed with spending and usage limits, making it possible to
authorize some transactions off-line. Chip technology can also help enable a variety of additional card features including applications such as loyalty, access control, rewards and public transit passes. We expect that it will take multiple
years for all participants to implement the equipment necessary to accept and process the chip card compliant transactions in the Canadian marketplace. We have a plan to ensure our merchants will benefit from the migration to chip technology in
the Canadian market. We are well into the enablement of chip card technology for company-owned terminals in the Canadian market.



We believe the number of electronic transactions will continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these
transactions will be processed through emerging technologies. To help our customers reduce their transaction costs and accelerate the transaction approval process, we have integrated new technologies into our service offerings such as internet
protocol communications and check truncation or conversion at the point of sale. If new technologies like radio frequency identification or contactless payment cards continue to evolve and are desired by merchants and consumers, we plan to continue
developing new products and services that will exploit the benefits that these new technologies can offer our customers. We also believe that new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based
transactions. Industries such as quick service restaurants, government, recurring payments, and business-to-business should continue to see transaction volumes migrate to more electronic-based settlement solutions. We believe that the continued
development of new products and services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business for the foreseeable future.



Target Markets



We believe that significant global opportunities exist for growth in the application of electronic transaction payment processing
services. Although the United States accounts for the largest payment processing volume in the world, global expansion by financial institutions into new geographies and the increased recognition by governments of the role of payment cards in
facilitating economic growth are rapidly transforming the electronic commerce market into a global opportunity.



The growth of retail credit card transactions, as well as the rapid growth in the utilization of debit cards, correlates with the historic
growth of our business. According toThe Nilson Reportdated April 2010, worldwide annual general purpose card purchase volume increased 8% to $7.6 trillion in 2009. General purpose cards include the major card networks brands such as Visa,
MasterCard, American Express, Discover, China Union Pay, JCB, and Diners Club. In Canada, general purpose cards also include Interac debit cards.



The Nilson Reportdated February 2010 estimates that more than $3.0 trillion of annual consumer spending was charged in 2009 using
general purpose cards in the United States, a 3% decrease from 2008. Based onThe Nilson Reportdated February 2010, the United States industry mix of Visa and MasterCard debit and credit purchase transactions are approximately 67% and 33%,
respectively.The Nilson Reportdated March 2010 reported that $410.3 billion (U.S.) of annual Canadian consumer spending uses general purpose cards as the form of payment, representing a decrease of 1% from 2008. Also based onThe Nilson
Reportdated March 2010, Canadian Visa and MasterCard debit card purchase transactions are approximately 42% while Interac debit cards purchase transactions are 58%.The Nilson Reportdated May 2010 estimates that $1.9 trillion of annual
consumer spending was charged in 2009 using general purpose cards in Europe, a 4.8% increase from 2008. The industry mix in the United Kingdom based on the United Kingdom purchase Transaction Payments Authority for Visa and MasterCard debit and
credit cards are approximately 76% and 24%, respectively.







Index to Financial Statements

We process in eleven countries and territories in the Asia-Pacific region. These markets
include almost 40% of the world’s population and 71% of the total Asia-Pacific population according to theCIA World Factbook. These markets are largely cash based. We believe there are significant, long-term growth opportunities for
payment processing in this region.



Strategy



We seek to leverage the rapid adoption of, and transition
to, card based payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels or through acquisitions in North America, the Asia-Pacific region and Europe, and investing in and leveraging technology and people, thereby
maximizing shareholder value. We also seek to enter new markets through acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, and the Americas. We intend to accomplish this overall strategy as follows:



Existing offerings



We intend to increase our penetration of existing markets and
to further leverage our infrastructure. Our objectives include:



•expand our direct merchant services distribution channels, primarily our existing sales force, ISOs, OEMs, value added resellers and other referral
relationships;



•provide the best possible customer service at levels that exceed our competitors by investing in technology, training and product enhancements;



•grow our direct merchant services market share in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Asia-Pacific region and the Russian Federation by
concentrating on the small and mid-market merchant segments, while selectively targeting national merchants that meet our profitability criteria;



•provide the latest, secure and enhanced products and services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing products and developing new
systems and services to blend technology with our customer needs; and



•pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions or investments in and alliances with companies that have high growth potential or significant
market presence and operate in profitable sectors of payments-related industries through compatible products and services, and development and distribution capabilities.



International markets



We intend to focus on further diversification in
international markets with high payments industry growth or targets with significant market presence, such as Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and South America. We are evaluating these markets based on the following attractive characteristics:



•currently low but growing credit and debit card utilization;



•the absence of a dominant merchant acquirer or processor.



Infrastructure



Our focus on our existing infrastructure will center on
attracting, developing and retaining talent to execute our strategy and migrate our systems to leading edge technology. We intend to continue systems integrations, primarily the consolidation of our front-end operating platforms and the
migration/conversion of our back-end operating platforms.



We continue to make progress on our next generation technology processing platform, referred to as G2. This platform is planned to be a
new front-end operating environment for our merchant processing in the United States,







Index to Financial Statements

Asia-Pacific, the United Kingdom, and Canada and is intended to replace several legacy platforms that have higher cost structures. Aside from cost advantages, there are other benefits to this new
platform, such as increased speed to market of new products, ease of scalability, enhanced reporting options, hardware environment flexibility and enhanced compliance with standards and regulations. In addition, the platform is designed as a
potential integration platform for future acquisitions. We are currently processing transactions on our G2 platform in seven markets in our Asia-Pacific region and we have begun the process of supporting the United States.



Employees



As of May 31, 2010, we had 3,592 employees. Many of our
employees are highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction payment processing. We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key technical employees.



Where to Find More Information



We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and
other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website at www.sec.gov. In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual report on
Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor information section of our website at www.globalpaymentsinc.com free of charge. Certain materials
relating to our corporate governance, including our senior financial officers’ code of ethics, are also available in the investor information section of our website. Copies of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials
are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Form 10-K. You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at (770) 829-8234. We are not including the information on our website as a part
of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report.



Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room, and at the offices of the New York Stock
Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol “GPN.”



SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, DC 20549

(You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.)



NYSE Euronext

20 Broad Street

New York, NY 10005







Index to Financial Statements

