ITEM 1- BUSINESS



Recent Developments



Financial Highlights



In the year endedMay 31, 2015, or fiscal2015, our revenues increased8.6% to$2,773.7 millionfrom$2,554.2 millionin the year endedMay 31, 2014, or fiscal2014as a result of growth in our North America and International merchant services segments despite the unfavorable effect of currency fluctuations.



Consolidated operating income was$456.6 millionfor fiscal2015compared to$405.5 millionfor fiscal2014. Net income attributable to Global Payments increased$32.8 million, or13.4%, to$278.0 millionin fiscal2015from$245.3 millionin the prior year. Diluted earnings per share increased$0.75to$4.12in fiscal2015from$3.37in fiscal2014.



North America merchant services segment revenues increased$159.9 million, or8.8%, to$1,968.9 millionin fiscal2015from$1,809.0 millionin fiscal2014. This increase in revenues was due to growth driven by our U.S. direct distribution channels, including the addition of Payment Processing, Inc. ("PayPros"), and steady performance in Canada. North America merchant services segment operating income increased to$293.1 millionin fiscal2015from$272.3 millionin fiscal2014, with operating margins of14.9%and15.0%for fiscal2015and2014, respectively.



International merchant services segment revenues increased$59.6 million, or8.0%, to$804.8 millionin fiscal2015from$745.2 millionin fiscal2014largely attributable to growth in our European and Asia-Pacific markets, partially offset by the unfavorable effect of currency fluctuations. International merchant services segment operating income increased to$279.7 millionin fiscal2015from$240.2 millionin fiscal2014, with operating margins of34.8%and32.2%for fiscal2015and2014, respectively.



See "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a detailed explanation of our operating results.



Recent Acquisitions



OnMarch 4, 2014, we completed the acquisition of PayPros for$426.5 millionin cash. We funded the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and borrowings on our corporate debt facilities. PayPros is a provider of fully-integrated payment solutions for small-to-medium sized merchants in the United States.  PayPros delivers its services through a network of technology-based enterprise software partners to vertical markets that are complementary to the markets served by Accelerated Payment Technologies ("APT"), which we acquired on October 1, 2012. Although we acquired PayPros in fiscal2014, fiscal2015was the first full year for which PayPros' operating results were included in our consolidated results. We have combined APT and PayPros to form our integrated payments solutions channel that we refer to as "OpenEdge."



During fiscal2015, we completed the following two strategic acquisitions in our International merchant services segment, enhancing our technological capabilities and extending our global reach in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe:



•OnOctober 10, 2014, we completed the acquisition of Ezidebit Holdings Pty Ltd ("Ezidebit") for AUD302.6 millionin cash ($266.0 millionequivalent as of the acquisition date).  This acquisition was funded by a combination of cash on hand and borrowings on our revolving credit facility.  Ezidebit is a leading integrated payments company focused on recurring payments verticals in Australia and New Zealand. Ezidebit markets its services through a network of integrated software vendors and direct channels to numerous vertical markets. We acquired Ezidebit to establish a direct distribution channel in Australia and New Zealand and to further enhance our existing integrated solutions offerings.



•OnMarch 25, 2015, we acquired approximately95%of the outstanding shares of Pay and Shop Limited for €110.2 millionin cash ($118.9 millionequivalent as of the acquisition date) funded by borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Pay and Shop Limited, which does business as Realex Payments, is a leading European online payment gateway technology provider based in Dublin, Ireland. This transaction furthers our strategy to provide omni-channel solutions that combine gateway services, payment service provisioning and merchant acquiring across Europe.











Also during fiscal2015, we entered into agreements to acquire the following businesses:



•OnSeptember 30, 2014, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Certegy Check Services, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ("FIS"), to acquire substantially all of the assets of its gaming business related to licensed gaming operators (the "FIS Gaming Business"). OnJune 1, 2015, after the end of fiscal 2015, we completed the acquisition, which includes approximately260gaming client locations, for$237.5 millionin cash, funded from borrowings on our revolving credit facility and cash on hand. We acquired the FIS Gaming Business to expand our direct distribution and service offerings in the gaming industry.



•OnDecember 17, 2014, we announced an agreement with Bank of the Philippine Islands ("BPI") to provide merchant acquiring and payment services in the Philippines. We believe this arrangement will enable us to expand our direct distribution in the Philippines, further leverage our technological strengths and provide superior product and service offerings to customers in the Philippines. Under this arrangement, BPI will contribute its existing merchant acquiring business to our subsidiary in the Philippines, Global Payments Asia-Pacific Philippines Incorporated ("GP Philippines"), in return for a49%ownership interest in GP Philippines and a cash payment of$3.6 million. We will retain a controlling51%interest in GP Philippines. We expect the acquisition to close late in the first quarter of fiscal2016, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions.



OnJuly 27, 2015, we announced an agreement with CaixaBank, S.A. ("CaixaBank") and Erste Group Bank AG (“Erste Group”) to form a venture to provide merchant acquiring and payment services in three core Central and Eastern Europe locations: the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic and Romania.  As part of the agreement, Global Payments and CaixaBank will form an entity, of which Global Payments will have a51percent majority interest.  This newly formed entity will pay €$30 million($33 millionequivalent as of the agreement date) in cash to acquire a51percent majority ownership in the venture with Erste Group, which will contribute its existing merchant acquiring businesses in each of thethreecountries to the venture and hold a49percent interest. The transaction is expected to close in the second half of fiscal2016, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of customary closing conditions.



See "Note3- Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these acquisitions.



Business Description



We are a leading worldwide provider of payment technology services delivering innovative solutions to our customers. Our partnerships, technologies and employee expertise enable us to provide a broad range of services that allow our customers to accept various payment types. We distribute our services across a variety of channels to merchants and partners in29countries throughout North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil.  We provide payment and digital commerce solutions and operate intworeportable segments: North America merchant services and International merchant services.



We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in 2000 and spun-off from our former parent company in 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payment technology services business since 1967.



Our North America merchant services and International merchant services segments target customers in many industries including financial services, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, not-for-profit organizations and utilities.  See "Note14- Segment Information" in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional segment information and "Item 1A - Risk Factors" for a discussion of risks involved with our operations.



Merchant Services Overview



Our payment solutions are similar around the world in that we enable our merchant customers to accept card, electronic, check and digital-based payments at the point of sale.  Our primary business model provides payment services directly to merchants as our customers. We also provide similar services indirectly through financial institutions and a limited number of independent sales organizations ("ISOs").



The term "merchant" generally refers to any organization that accepts card-based payment forms, such as credit, debit, gift, stored value and electronic benefits transfer cards, for the payment of goods and services.  We sell our services through multiple sales channels around the world and target customers in many vertical industries. Credit and debit card transaction processing includes the processing of the world's major international card brands, including American Express, UnionPay International ("UPI"), Discover Card ("Discover"), JCB, MasterCard, Visa and non-traditional payment methods, as well as certain domestic debit networks, such as Interac in Canada.  Electronic and digital-based payment processing involves a consumer









or cardholder acquiring goods or services from a merchant and using a credit or debit card or other electronic or digital method as the form of payment.  Our comprehensive offerings include terminal sales and deployment, authorization processing, settlement and funding processing, customer support and help desk functions, chargeback resolution, industry compliance, Payment Card Industry ("PCI") security, consolidated billing and statements and on-line reporting.  Our value proposition is to provide high-quality, responsive, secure and end-to-end service to all of our customers.  Currently, we focus on merchants and partners in29countries located throughout North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and in South America.



The majority of merchant services revenue is generated by services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type.  We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number or value of transactions.



Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing



Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the payment card industry. During a typical payment transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers like Global Payments to facilitate transaction processing. We perform a series of services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution.



We process funds settlement under two models, a sponsorship model and a direct membership model.  Under the sponsorship model, we are designated as a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and as an ISO by Visa.  To be designated as a certified processor, member clearing banks ("Member") sponsor us and require our adherence to the standards of the networks.  In certain markets, we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements with financial institution sponsors. These agreements allow us to route transactions under the Members' control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through MasterCard and Visa. In this model, the standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant has been funded.



Under the direct membership model, we are direct members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party sponsorship.  In this model, we route and clear transactions directly through the card brand’s network and are not restricted from performing funds settlement.  Otherwise, we process these transactions similarly to how we process transactions in the sponsorship model.  We are required to adhere to the standards of the various networks in which we are direct members. We maintain relationships with financial institutions, which may also serve as our Member sponsors for other card brands or in other markets, to assist with funds settlement.  In fiscal2015, we increased the number of markets in which we are members in certain of the payment networks.



How a Card Transaction Works



A typical payment transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a point of sale ("POS") terminal card reader or mobile device card reader, which may be sold, leased or rented, and serviced by us.  Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of services that we offer directly or through a value-added reseller (“VAR”).  The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased.



After the card and transaction information is captured by the POS device, the terminal automatically connects to our network through the internet or other communication channels in order to receive authorization of the transaction.  For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits.  In a debit card transaction, we obtain authorization for the transaction from the card issuer through the payment network verifying that the cardholder has sufficient funds for the transaction value.



As an illustration, shown below, on a $100.00 credit card transaction, the card issuer may fund the Member (indirectly through the card network) $98.50 after retaining approximately $1.50 referred to as an interchange fee.  The card issuer seeks reimbursement of $100.00 from the cardholder in the cardholder's monthly credit card bill.  The Member would, in turn, pay the merchant $100.00.  The net settlement after this transaction would require us to advance the Member $1.50.  After the end of the month, we would bill the merchant a percentage of the transaction, or discount, to cover the full amount of the interchange fee and our net revenue from the transaction.  If our discount rate for the merchant in the above example was 2.00%, we would bill the merchant $2.00 at the end of the month for the transaction, reimburse ourselves for approximately $1.50 in interchange









fees and retain $0.50 or 0.50% as our net revenue for the transaction.  Discount rates vary based on negotiations with merchants and the economic characteristics of transactions.  Interchange rates also vary based on the economic characteristics of individual transactions.  Accordingly, our net revenue per transaction varies across our merchant base and is subject to change based on changes in discount rates and interchange rates. Our profit on the transaction reflects the net revenue less operating expenses, including assessments and other network fees, systems cost to process the transaction and commissions paid to our sales force or ISO.  Assessments are fees charged by Visa and MasterCard based on the value of transactions processed through their networks.





Business Segments



North America Merchant Services Segment



North America merchant services revenues represented71.0%of our total consolidated fiscal2015revenues and included operations in the United States and Canada. In the United States, we sell our services via a direct sales force utilizing referrals from partners of agent banks and trade associations, integrated payment solutions, enterprise software providers and VAR referral arrangements, ISOs, agents and proprietary telesales groups.



Direct Sales. Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from agent banks and trade association referral partners for a variety of mid-sized to large merchants with annual bankcard volume averaging above $300,000. Our merchant portfolio is also expanded through targeted campaigns and other lead-generating efforts by our direct sales force. Our referral partners are paid referral fees.



Integrated Payment Solutions. Our integrated payment solutions channel, OpenEdge, sells payment solutions to more than60vertical markets, gaining market share by signing new enterprise solution providers and new merchants within existing enterprise solution providers that we already support.



Independent Sales Organizations. Our ISO channel targets merchant with typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less. ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs' requirements. These contracts are generally multi-year and priced by service on a per transaction basis. The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring services, with the majority of Global Payments' ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring.  Because Global Payments is a primary party to the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor









relationship or card network membership, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant, net of interchange fees, is recorded as revenue. The excess of revenue earned over our cost to process the transaction plus the ISO contractual transaction fee is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses.



Gaming.As part of our direct merchant service offering, we offer a comprehensive suite of cash access solutions to the gaming vertical market.  These solutions include credit and debit card cash advance, both traditional and electronic check cashing and other services specific to this market. Our proprietary software platform allows casino patrons in the United States and Canada fast access to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk. We derive revenue from our gaming services primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value.



Check Services. We also offer our merchant customers check verification and guarantee services.  The majority of check services involve providing check guarantee services for checks received by merchants.  Under the guarantee service, when a merchant receives a check in payment for goods and services, the transaction is submitted to and analyzed by us. We either approve or decline the check for warranty coverage under our guarantee service.  If we approve the check for warranty coverage and the merchant accepts the check, the merchant will either deposit the check in its bank account or, as in the majority of instances, process it for settlement through our electronic check acceptance service.  When an approved check or electronic debit is returned unpaid by the merchant's bank, we pay the merchant the face value of the check and, as the assignee of the check, we pursue collection of the amount of the check from the checkwriter.  As a result, we bear the risk of loss if we are unable to collect the amount of the returned check from the checkwriter.  We earn a fee for each guaranteed check, which generally is determined as a percentage of the check amount.



Indirect Merchant Services.In the indirect merchant services channel, we provide merchant services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs.



International Merchant Services Segment



International merchant services revenues represented29.0%of our total consolidated fiscal2015revenues and were derived from operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.  Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. Our Asia-Pacific region includes the following thirteen countries and territories: Australia, Brunei, China, Hong Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, New Zealand, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan.  We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships.  In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services.



Total revenues from our segments, by region, were as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended May 31,201520142013Revenues:United States$1,655,872$1,488,659$1,394,675Canada313,018320,333311,000North America merchant services1,968,8901,808,9921,705,675Europe615,966587,463522,593Asia-Pacific188,862157,781147,655International merchant services804,828745,244670,248Consolidated revenues$2,773,718$2,554,236$2,375,923



Based on growth in our international markets and recent management organizational changes, commencing at the beginning of fiscal 2016, we have replaced our International merchant services segment with two new operating segments: Europe and Asia-Pacific. See "Note14- Segment Information" in the notes to our accompanying consolidated financial statements for information about each segment's operating income and assets.



Our foreign operations subject us to various risks, including, without limitation, currency exchange risks and political, economic and regulatory risks. See "Item 1A - Risk Factors" for additional information about these risks.











Industry Overview



Competition



We are a leading merchant acquirer in the United States, where we compete primarily with Bank of America Merchant Services, LLC, a joint venture between First Data Corporation and Bank of America Corporation, Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC, Elavon, Inc., a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp, First Data Corporation, Heartland Payment Systems Inc., Vantiv Inc., and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.



We have significant market share in Canada, where we compete primarily with Chase Paymentech Solutions, LLC, Moneris Solutions Corporation, and TD Bank N.A. Moneris Solutions Corporation is a joint venture between the Bank of Montreal and the Royal Bank of Canada.



In Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, financial institutions remain the primary providers of merchant acquiring payment services to merchants, although the outsourcing of these services to third-party service providers is becoming more prevalent.  Merchant acquiring payment services have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at competitive prices.



In the United Kingdom, we believe we are third in market position compared to our primary competitors, WorldPay (UK) Limited and Barclays Bank PLC.  In Spain, where we hold the leading market position, our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., Banco de Sabadell S.A. and Banco Santander S.A. In the Czech Republic, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competitors include financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services in those markets.



Emerging Trends



The payments industry continues to grow globally and as a result, several large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations globally in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint ventures. We believe that the electronic payment services industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that lack the necessary infrastructure look to exit the business.



We believe that payment technology transactions and services will continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these transactions will be processed through emerging technologies. We provide innovative technology-based solutions to help our merchants and partners simplify the payments process, regardless of the channel through which the transaction occurs. We have also launched a suite of security services that provide point-of-sale, point-to-point encryption, tokenization services, Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (“PCI DSS”)merchant assistance, real-time fraud protection and other services to enhance and simplify security for all merchants and partners. We continue to expand our forms of payments acceptance supporting radio frequency identification for contactless payment cards and near-field communication enabled smartphones that contain mobile wallet software.  This allows us to offer customers the ability to accept payments through mobile wallets or the ability for our customers to use a tablet or other mobile device as a point of sale terminal. As mobile payments continue to evolve, we intend to continue partnering and developing new services that will leverage the benefits that these new technologies can offer our customers.



We believe that new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions.  We expect industries such as e-commerce, healthcare, education, government, recurring payments and business-to-business to continue to see transaction volumes migrate to more electronic-based settlement solutions.  We believe that the continued development of new services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business for the foreseeable future.



Strategy



We seek to leverage the adoption of, and transition to, card, electronic and digital-based payments by expanding share in our existing markets through our distribution channels and service innovation, as well as through acquisitions to improve our offerings and scale, while also seeking to enter new markets through acquisitions around the world.  We intend to continue to invest in and leverage our technology infrastructure and our people to increase our penetration in existing markets.











Our objectives include the following:



•Grow and control our direct distribution by adding new merchants and partners;



•Deliver innovative services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing services and developing new systems and services to blend technology with customer needs;



•Leverage technology and operational advantages throughout our global footprint;



•Continue to develop seamless multinational solutions for leading global customers;



•Provide customer service at levels that exceed our competition, while investing in technology, training and enhancements to our service offerings; and



•Pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions of, investments in, and alliances with companies that have high growth potential, significant market presence or key technological capabilities.



Competitive Strengths



We believe that our competitive strengths include the following:



•Global Footprint and Distribution- Our worldwide presence allows us to focus our investments on markets with promising GDP fundamentals and favorable secular trends, makes us more attractive to merchants with international operations, and exposes us to emerging innovations that we can adopt globally, while diversifying our economic risk.



•Scalable Operating Environment and Technology Infrastructure- We operate our company as a single, unified international organization, with a multi-channel, global technology infrastructure which provides scalable and innovative service offerings and a consistent service experience to our merchants and partners worldwide, while also driving sustainable operating efficiencies.



•Strong, Long-lasting Partner Relationships- We have established strong, long-lasting relationships with many financial institutions, enterprise software providers, value-added resellers and other technology-based payment service providers, which facilitate lead generation and enable us to deliver a diverse solutions set to our merchant customers.



•Disciplined Acquisition Approach- Our proven track record for selectively and successfully completing and integrating acquisitions in existing and new markets positions us well for future growth and as an attractive partner for potential acquisition targets.



Safeguarding Our Business



Privacy and security are central to our service.  We work with information security and forensics firms and employ advanced technologies to investigate and address issues related to processing system security.  We also work with industry third parties, regulators and law enforcement to resolve security incidents and assist in efforts to prevent unauthorized access to our processing system.



Employees and Labor



As ofMay 31, 2015, we had 4,438 employees many of whom are highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction payment services. We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key employees.











Regulation



Various aspects of our business are subject to regulation and supervision under federal, state and local laws in the United States, as well as foreign laws, regulations and rules. In addition, we are subject to rules promulgated by the various payment networks, including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, UPI and Interac; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; as well as a variety of other regulations, including escheat laws and applicable privacy and information security regulations. In addition, because we provide data processing services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the "FFIEC"). Set forth below is a brief summary of some of the significant laws and regulations that apply to us. These descriptions are not exhaustive, and these laws, regulations and rules frequently change.



Dodd-Frank Act



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), which was signed into law in the United States in July 2010, resulted in significant structural and other changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the "Federal Reserve Board") to regulate the debit interchange transaction fees that a card issuer or payment card network receives or charges for an electronic debit transaction.  Pursuant to the so-called "Durbin Amendment" to the Dodd-Frank Act, these fees must be "reasonable and proportional" to the cost incurred by the card issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transaction. Pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board, debit interchange rates for card issuers with assets of $10 billion or more are capped at $0.21 per transaction and an ad valorem component of 5 basis points to reflect a portion of the issuer's fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuers, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs. The cap on interchange fees has not had a material direct effect on the Company’s results of operations.



In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act limits the ability of payment card networks to impose certain restrictions. First, it allows merchants to set minimum dollar amounts (not to exceed $10) for the acceptance of a credit card (and allows federal governmental entities and institutions of higher education to set maximum amounts for the acceptance of credit cards). Second, it allows merchants to provide discounts or incentives to encourage consumers to pay with cash, checks, debit cards or credit cards.



The rules also contain prohibitions on network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions that require a card issuer to enable at least two unaffiliated networks on each debit card, prohibit card networks from entering into exclusivity arrangements and restrict the ability of issuers or networks to mandate transaction routing requirements. We do not expect the prohibition on network exclusivity to significantly preclude our ability to pass on network fees and other costs to our customers.



The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the "FSOC"), which was established to, among other things, identify risks to the stability of the U.S. financial system.  The FSOC has the authority to require supervision and regulation of nonbank financial companies that the FSOC determines pose a systemic risk to the U.S. financial system. The Company may be subject to additional systemic risk-related oversight.



Payment Network Rules



We are subject to the rules of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, UPI, Interac and other payment networks.  In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with MasterCard and Visa as service providers for member institutions and with other networks. Accordingly, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions.



Banking Laws and Regulations



The FFIEC is an interagency body comprised of the federal bank and credit union regulators such as the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. The FFIEC examines large data processors in order to identify and mitigate risks associated with systemically significant service providers, including specifically the risks they may pose to the banking industry. In addition, we are subject to Directive 2007/64/EC in the European Union (the "Payment Services Directive"), which was implemented in most European Union member states through national legislation. As a result of this legislation, we are subject to regulation and oversight in certain European Union member nations, including the requirement that we maintain specified regulatory capital; however, these regulatory capital requirements are generally insignificant to our total assets and total equity and have no material effect on our liquidity.











Privacy and Information Security Laws



We provide services that may be subject to various state, federal and foreign privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which applies to a broad range of financial institutions and to companies that provide services to financial institutions in the United States, including the check and gaming portion of our business. We are also subject to a variety of foreign data protection and privacy laws, including, without limitation, Directive 95/46/EC, as implemented in each member state of the European Union.  Among other things, these foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, in certain cases restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information.  These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and removal or elimination of personal information.



Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Requirements



In many countries, we are legally or contractually required to comply with anti-money laundering laws and regulations, such as, in the United States, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (collectively, the "BSA"), and the BSA implementing regulations of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ("FinCEN'), a bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. A variety of similar anti-money laundering requirements apply in other countries. In some countries, we are directly subject to these requirements; in other countries, we have contractually agreed to assist our sponsor banks with their obligation to comply with anti-money laundering requirements that apply to them. These laws typically require organizations to:



•establish and audit anti-money laundering programs;



•establish procedures for obtaining and verifying customer information;



•file reports on large cash transactions; and



•file suspicious activity reports if the financial institution believes a customer may be violating U.S. laws and regulations.



Regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") of the U.S. Department of Treasury  place prohibitions and restrictions on all U.S. citizens and entities, including the Company, with respect to transactions by U.S. persons with specified countries and individuals and entities identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals list (for example, individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, countries subject to certain economic and trade sanctions, as well as terrorists, terrorist organizations and narcotics traffickers identified by OFAC under programs that are not country specific).  Similar requirements apply to transactions and dealings with persons and entities specified in lists maintained in other countries. We have developed procedures and controls that are designed to monitor and address legal and regulatory requirements and developments and that allow our customers to protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities.



Debt Collection Laws



The check and gaming portion of our business is subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state laws in connection with our check guarantee and recovery services, which guarantee the payment of checks or collection of returned checks on behalf of certain merchants. These laws are designed to eliminate abusive, deceptive and unfair debt collection practices and require licensing at the state level. We have procedures in place to comply with the requirements of these laws and are licensed in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states.



Escheat Laws



We are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property laws in the United States and in foreign countries that require us to transfer to certain government authorities the unclaimed property of others that we hold when that property has been unclaimed for a certain period of time.  Moreover, we are subject to audit by state regulatory authorities with regard to our escheatment practices.











Foreign Laws and Regulations



We are subject to foreign laws and regulations that affect the electronic payments industry in each of the foreign countries in which we operate. Some of these countries, such as the Russian Federation and Spain, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years. In these countries, there is a greater risk of new, unforeseen changes that could result from, among other things, instability or changes in a country’s or region’s economic conditions; changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise; increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict; or action by the European Union or the United States, Canada or other governments that may restrict our ability to transact business in a foreign country or with certain foreign individuals or entities, such as sanctions by or against the Russian Federation.



Where to Find More Information



We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website atwww.sec.gov.  In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor relations section of our website atwww.globalpaymentsinc.comfree of charge.  Certain materials relating to our corporate governance, including our codes of ethics applicable to our directors, senior financial officers and other employees, are also available in the investor relations section of our website.  Copies of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ("this Annual Report"). You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at (770) 829-8234.  We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report.



Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol "GPN".



SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, DC  20549

(You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.)



NYSE Euronext

20 Broad Street

New York, NY  10005













