ITEM 1—BUSINESS



General Developments



Financial Highlights



In the year ended May 31, 2011, or fiscal 2011, revenue increased 13% to $1,859.8 million from $1,642.5 million in the year ended May 31, 2010, or fiscal 2010. This revenue growth was primarily
due to growth in most of our direct merchant acquiring markets around the world and the impact of our acquisition in Spain on December 20, 2010.



Consolidated operating income was $331.6 million for fiscal 2011, compared to $323.3 million for fiscal 2010. Net income attributable to
Global Payments increased $5.9 million, or 3%, to $209.2 million in fiscal 2011 from $203.3 million in the prior year, resulting in a $0.12 increase in diluted earnings per share to $2.60 in fiscal 2011 from $2.48 in fiscal 2010.



North America merchant services segment revenue increased
$142.8 million or 12% to $1,362.9 million in fiscal 2011 from $1,220.1 million in fiscal 2010. North America merchant services segment operating income decreased to $268.2 million in fiscal 2011 from $275.4 million in fiscal 2010, with operating
margins of 19.7% and 22.6% for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.



International merchant services segment revenue increased $74.6 million or 18% to $496.9 million in fiscal 2011 from $422.4 million in fiscal 2010. International merchant services operating income also
increased to $143.9 million in fiscal 2011 from $113.7 million in fiscal 2010, with operating margins of 29.0% and 26.9% for fiscal 2011 and 2010, respectively.



Refer to “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a detailed
explanation of these results.



Fiscal 2011 Acquisitions



On December 20, 2010, we
acquired a 51% controlling financial interest in Comercia Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L. (“Comercia”), a newly formed company into which Caixa d’Estalvis i Pensions de Barcelona (“la Caixa”) contributed its merchant
acquiring business in Spain. “la Caixa” owns the remaining 49% of Comercia. We purchased our share of Comercia for €125 million. The shareholders contributed a total of €6.4 million as initial capital to form Comercia. Our
total investment in Comercia, including our 51% share of the initial capital was €128.3 million ($173.5 million as of the closing date). We manage the day-to-day operations of the corporation, control all major decisions and, accordingly,
consolidate the corporation’s financial results for accounting purposes effective with the closing date. In conjunction with the acquisition, “la Caixa” agreed to a twenty-year marketing alliance agreement in which “la
Caixa” will refer customers to Comercia for payment processing services in Spain and provide sponsorship into the card networks. We funded the purchase with a combination of existing cash resources in Europe and the borrowing on our Corporate
Credit Facility.



Business Description



Global Payments Inc. is a leading provider of electronic
payments transaction processing services for consumers, merchants, Independent Sales Organizations (“ISO”s), financial institutions, government agencies and multi-national corporations located throughout the United States, Canada, the
United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region, the Czech Republic, and the Russian Federation. We serve as an intermediary to facilitate payments transactions and operate in two business segments, North America Merchant Services and International
Merchant Services. We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000 and spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001. Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments
business since 1967.







Index to Financial Statements

Our North America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services segments target
customers in many vertical industries including financial institutions, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, nonprofit organizations and utilities. Please see Note 12 in the notes to consolidated
financial statements for additional segment information and “Item 1A—Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks involved with our operations.



Merchant Services Overview





The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per
transaction, depending on card type. We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value. The majority of credit cards and signature debit cards, which are only a U.S. based
card type, are based on a percentage of transaction value along with other related fees, while PIN debit cards are typically a fee per transaction.



Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing



Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the industry. During a typical card transaction, the merchant
and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers. Merchant acquirers are typically financial institutions or independent processors like Global Payments. Global Payments performs a series of
services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution.



Electronic draft capture is the process of transferring sales
draft data into an electronic format so that it may be sent through networks for clearing and settlement. The card networks, primarily Visa, MasterCard, and Discover, use a system known as interchange in the case of credit and signature debit cards
for this purpose. Financial institutions use the debit networks for PIN-based debit cards to transfer the information and funds between the card issuers and merchant acquirers to complete the link between merchants and card issuers. Debit card
payments differ slightly from traditional credit card transactions in that the cardholder is required to have sufficient funds available in a deposit account at the time of the transaction, or the debit card transaction will not be authorized.
PIN-based debit transactions are sent through a debit network while signature-based debit or check card transactions, which are offered exclusively







Index to Financial Statements

in the United States, are sent through Visa and MasterCard and require a signature at the time of purchase. Also, PIN-based debit transactions typically deduct the purchase amount from the
cardholder’s deposit account within a day of the purchase, depending on the time of the purchase. Signature-based debit, or check card transactions typically debit the cardholder’s deposit account two to three days after the purchase,
although the funds are “held” with a memo posted to the cardholder’s bank account. A credit card transaction posts to a cardholder’s account, reducing the available credit limit in a similar manner.



In order to provide credit and debit card transaction
processing services for MasterCard, Visa and other payment networks, we must either be a member of these systems or be designated as a certified processor by MasterCard and Visa in addition to being a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and an
Independent Sales Organization by Visa. Currently, these designations are dependent upon member clearing banks sponsoring us or our membership in various networks and our adherence to the standards of the networks. We have five primary financial
institution sponsors in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Asia-Pacific region, and the Russian Federation with whom we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements and in some cases we have membership in various
networks. These agreements allow us to route transactions under the member banks’ control and identification numbers to clear card transactions. Certain of the member financial institutions of Visa and MasterCard are our competitors. Visa and
MasterCard set the standards with which we must comply.



How
a Card Transaction Works



A card
transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a POS terminal card reader, which may be provided by Global Payments. Alternatively, card and transaction information
may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of products that we offer directly or through a value added reseller (“VAR”). The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the
credit card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased.



After the card and transaction information is captured by the POS device, the terminal automatically either dials a pre-programmed phone number or otherwise connects to our network through the internet or
other communication channels in order to receive authorization of the transaction. For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic
and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits. We route the request to the applicable credit or debit network. The credit or debit network forwards the authorization request to the card issuer,
who determines a response based on the status of the cardholder’s account. The response is returned to the merchant’s terminal via the same communication network. This entire authorization and response process occurs within seconds.



Timing differences, interchange expense, merchant
reserves and exception items cause differences between the amount the Member receives from the card networks and the amount funded to the merchants. The standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing
merchant settlement funds, and,







Index to Financial Statements

instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant is funded. However, in practice and in accordance with the terms of our sponsorship agreements with our
Members, we generally follow a net settlement process whereby, if the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the Member’s funding obligation to the merchant, we temporarily hold the surplus on behalf of the Member, in an account at the
Member bank, and record a corresponding liability. Conversely, if the Member’s funding obligation to the merchant precedes the incoming amount from the card networks, the amount of the Member’s net receivable position is either
subsequently advanced to the Member by us or the Member satisfies this obligation with its own funds. If the Member uses its own funds, the Member assesses a funding cost. Each participant in the transaction process receives compensation for its
services.



As an illustration, on a $100.00 credit
card transaction, the card issuer may fund the Member $98.50 after retaining approximately $1.50 referred to as an interchange fee or interchange expense. The card issuer seeks reimbursement of $100.00 from the cardholder in the cardholder’s
monthly credit card bill. The Member would, in turn, pay the merchant $100.00. The net settlement after this transaction would require Global Payments to advance the Member $1.50. After the end of the month, we would bill the merchant a percentage
of the transaction, or discount, to cover the full amount of the interchange fee and our net revenue from the transaction. If our net revenue from the merchant in the above example was 0.5%, we would bill the merchant $2.00 at the end of the month
for the transaction, reimburse ourselves for approximately $1.50 in interchange fees and retain $0.50 as our net revenue for the transaction. Our gross profit on the transaction reflects the net revenue less operating expenses, including the network
and systems cost to process the transaction (including assessments) and commissions paid to our sales force or ISO. Assessments are fees charged by Visa and MasterCard based on the dollar value of transactions processed through their networks.



Business Segments



North America Merchant Services Segment



North America merchant services revenues represent 73% of
our total consolidated fiscal 2011 revenues and include operations in the United States and Canada. In the United States, we sell our services via ISOs, a direct sales force, trade associations, agent and VAR referral arrangements, as well as
proprietary telesales groups.



Our ISO channel
targets a variety of merchant types with typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less. The ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs’ requirements. These contracts are multi-year
and priced by service on a per transaction basis. The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring products and services, with the majority of Global Payments ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring.
Because Global Payments is a primary party to the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor relationship, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant is recorded as revenue. The excess of revenue earned over the ISO contractual
transaction fee (plus assessments) is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in Sales, general and administrative expenses.



Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from our
agent bank, VAR and trade association referral partners signing a variety of mid-to-large sized merchants with annual bankcard volume on average above $300,000. Our direct sales force also generates its own leads and is paid a combination of base
salary and commission. Our referral partners are paid various referral fees.



Our United States revenue also includes check and gaming services and indirect merchant services. Our check products offer merchant customers risk management alternatives, in the case of our verification
and recovery offerings, or risk elimination, in the case of our guarantee offerings, by leveraging our internal and external databases of checkwriters to help decide whether the merchant should accept a check as the form of payment from a particular
checkwriter. Our check services products are part of our direct merchant service offering.







Index to Financial Statements

Check guarantee services include comprehensive check verification and guarantee services
designed for a merchant’s specific needs and risk adversity. This service guarantees payment of all checks that are electronically verified. If a verified check is dishonored, our service generally provides the merchant with reimbursement of
the check’s face value, and then we pursue collection of the check through our internal collection services. While we have the right to collect the full amount of the check from the checkwriter, we have historically recovered less than 100% of
the guaranteed checks. We derive revenue for these services primarily by charging the merchant a percentage of the face value of each guaranteed check. Check verification and recovery services are similar to those provided in the check guarantee
service, except that these services do not guarantee payment of the verified checks. We derive revenues for these services primarily from the service fees collected from delinquent check writers, fees charged to merchants based on a transaction rate
per verified check and fees charged to merchants for specialized services such as electronic re-deposits of dishonored checks.



In the specialized vertical market of gaming, our VIP LightSpeed proprietary software and VIP Preferred Advantage product
provide the gaming industry with the tools necessary to establish revolving check cashing limits for a casino’s customers. Our gaming products allow fast access to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow
of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk. We derive revenue from our gaming products primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value.



In Canada we sell our services primarily through our direct sales force leveraging our bank referral relationships. Unlike the United
States, approximately 60% of payment transactions in Canada are PIN-based debit transactions primarily processed through Interac.



International Merchant Services Segment



International merchant services revenues represent 27% of our total consolidated fiscal 2011 revenues and include operations in Europe and
the Asia-Pacific region. Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Czech Republic, and the Russian Federation. Our Asia-Pacific region includes the following eleven countries and territories: Brunei, China, Hong
Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan. We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct
merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships. In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services.



Total revenues from our segments, by geography, are as
follows (amounts in thousands):



Year Ended May 31,201120102009Revenues:United States$1,031,997$902,844$805,557Canada330,872317,272301,294North America merchant services1,362,8691,220,1161,106,851Europe359,567315,023265,121Asia-Pacific137,366107,32990,334International merchant services496,933422,352355,455Consolidated revenues$1,859,802$1,642,468$1,462,306



Industry Overview and Target Markets



Industry Overview



Payment processing service providers offer high-volume
electronic transaction payment processing and support services directly to financial institutions, merchants, multinational corporations, and ISOs.







Index to Financial Statements

We are a leading mid-market and small-market merchant acquirer in the United States where we
primarily compete with First Data Corporation, Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech, Wells Fargo and Elavon.



In Canada, we have a significant market share. The market share leader, Moneris Solutions, is a joint venture between the Royal Bank of
Canada and the Bank of Montreal. We also consider Chase Paymentech Solutions and TD Merchant Services to be major competitors in the Canadian market.



In the European and Asia-Pacific regions, financial institutions remain the dominant providers of payment processing services to
merchants, although the outsourcing of merchant processing services to third party service providers is becoming more prevalent. Processing services have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and
update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at a competitive price.



Our primary competitors in the United Kingdom are WorldPay and Barclays. In Spain, our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A and Caja Madrid, although all banks offer some form of
card processing in line with the traditional full service model in the market. While our partnership with “la Caixa” is market leading, because of consolidation in the banking sector, we are expecting similar models to become more
prevalent. The Russian Federation payments market is highly fragmented and our competition is made up of various financial institutions, including Sberbank, Alfa Bank, VTB, Raiffeisen Bank, and Russian Standard Bank. In the Czech Republic, our
primary competitors are First Data, SiNSYS, and Euronet. In the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competition is from financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services in each of our eleven markets.



As a result of continued growth in our industry, several
large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations both domestically and internationally. This expansion has come in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint ventures. We believe that the electronic payment
transaction processing industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that do not have the necessary infrastructure to participate in a highly competitive environment look to exit the business.



In the Canadian market, Visa, MasterCard and Interac are
migrating to cards containing chip technology over the coming years. Chip card technology is already prevalent in the European and Asia-Pacific markets. Chip technology provides the ability to process payment transactions securely by protecting the
cardholder information in an encrypted and confidential manner. The chip is difficult to copy and has the additional capacity to be personalized by a card issuer, including the ability to be programmed with spending and usage limits, making it
possible to authorize some transactions off-line. Chip technology can also help enable a variety of additional card features including applications such as loyalty, access control, rewards and public transit passes. This migration is a
multi-year process and we estimate more than half of the cards in the Canadian marketplace are now Chip enabled. We have a plan to ensure our merchants will benefit from the migration to Chip technology in the Canadian market. We are well into the
enablement of Chip Card technology for company-owned terminals in the Canadian market as well as third party integrated point of sale solutions for card processing.



We believe the number of electronic transactions will
continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these transactions will be processed through emerging technologies. To help our customers reduce their transaction costs and accelerate the transaction approval process, we have
integrated new technologies into our service offerings such as internet protocol communications and check truncation or conversion at the point of sale. We have products that support radio frequency identification for contactless payment cards as
well as near field communication enabled Smartphones that contain mobile wallet software, which position Global Payments to participate in the mobile payments market. As mobile payments continue to evolve, we plan to continue developing new products
and services to exploit the benefits that these new technologies can offer our customers. We also believe that new markets will continue to develop in areas that have







Index to Financial Statements

been previously dominated by paper-based transactions. Industries such as e-commerce, healthcare, education, government, recurring payments, and business-to-business should continue to see
transaction volumes migrate to more electronic-based settlement solutions. We believe that the continued development of new products and services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business for the
foreseeable future.



Target Markets



We believe that significant global opportunities exist for
growth in the application of electronic transaction payment processing services. Although the United States accounts for the largest payment processing volume in the world, global expansion by financial institutions into new geographies and the
increased recognition by governments of the role of payment cards in facilitating economic growth are rapidly transforming the electronic commerce market into a global opportunity.



The growth of retail credit card transactions, as well as the
rapid growth in the utilization of debit cards, correlates with the historic growth of our business. According toThe Nilson Reportdated April 2011, worldwide annual general purpose card purchase volume increased 18.2% to $9.1 trillion in
2010. General purpose cards include the major card networks brands such as Visa, MasterCard, American Express, China Union Pay, JCB, and Diners Club. In Canada, general purpose cards also include Interac debit cards.



The Nilson Report

The Nilson Report

The Nilson Report

The Nilson Report

The Nilson Report

CIA World Factbook



Strategy



We seek to leverage the rapid adoption of, and transition to, card and electronic based payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels or through acquisitions
in North America, the Asia-Pacific region and Europe, and investing in and leveraging technology and people, thereby maximizing shareholder value. We also seek to enter new markets through acquisitions in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe, and the
Americas. We intend to pursue this strategy by:



Existing
offerings



Increasing our penetration of
existing markets to further leverage our infrastructure. Our objectives include:



•focus on the highest potential markets and channels including third party relationships, banks, select verticals and target
markets;



•improve execution by moving decision-making closer to the customer by organizing around these channels;







Index to Financial Statements

•expand direct merchant services distribution channels, primarily our existing sales force, ISOs, original equipment manufacturer (“OEMs”),
VARs, and other referral relationships;



•provide the best possible customer service at levels that exceed our competitors by investing in technology, training and product enhancements;



•grow our direct merchant services market share by concentrating on the small and mid-market merchant segments, while selectively targeting national
merchants;



•provide the latest secure and enhanced products and services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing products and developing new
systems and services to blend technology with our customer needs; and



•pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions or investments in and alliances with companies that have high growth potential or significant
market presence and operate in profitable sectors of payments-related industries through compatible products and services, and development and distribution capabilities.



International markets



We intend to focus on further diversification in international markets with high payments industry growth or targets with significant
market presence, such as Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and South America. We are evaluating these markets based on the following attractive characteristics:



•currently low but growing credit and debit card utilization; and



•the absence of a dominant merchant acquirer or processor.



Infrastructure



We plan to focus on attracting, developing and retaining
talent to execute our strategy and migrate our systems to updated technology. We intend to continue systems integrations, primarily the consolidation of our front-end operating platforms and the migration/conversion of our back-end operating
platforms.



We continue to make progress on our
technology processing platform, referred to as G2. This platform is planned to be a new front-end operating environment for our merchant processing and is intended to replace several legacy platforms. We believe there are scale advantages and other
benefits to this new platform, such as increased speed to market of new products, enhanced reporting, hardware environment flexibility and enhanced compliance with standards and regulations. In addition, the platform is designed as a potential
integration platform for future acquisitions. We are currently processing transactions on our G2 platform in seven markets in our Asia-Pacific region and we have begun the process of supporting the United States.



Employees



As of May 31, 2011, we had 3,753 employees. Many of our employees are highly skilled in technical areas
specific to electronic transaction payment processing. We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key technical employees.



Where to Find More Information



We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and
other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website at www.sec.gov. In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual report on
Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor information section of our website at www.globalpaymentsinc.com free of charge.







Index to Financial Statements

Certain materials relating to our corporate governance, including our senior financial officers’ code of ethics, are also available in the investor information section of our website. Copies
of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Form 10-K. You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at
(770) 829-8234. We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report.



Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room, and at the offices of the New York Stock
Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol “GPN.”



SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, DC 20549

(You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.)



NYSE Euronext

20 Broad Street

New York, NY 10005







Index to Financial Statements

