ITEM 1- BUSINESS



General Developments



Financial Highlights



In the year endedMay 31, 2013, or fiscal2013, revenue increased7.8% to$2,375.9 millionfrom$2,203.8 millionin the year endedMay 31, 2012, or fiscal2012.  This revenue growth is primarily due to growth driven by our U.S. ISO channel, growth from our direct sales channels and gaming business, and growth in Europe; partially offset by market-based pricing compression in Canada.



Consolidated operating income was$357.2 millionfor fiscal2013, compared to$307.3 millionfor fiscal2012.  Consolidated operating income for both fiscal years 2013 and 2012 includes processing system intrusion costs of$36.8 millionand$84.4 million, respectively.  Net income attributable to Global Payments increased $27.9 million, or 14.8%, to$216.1 millionin fiscal2013from$188.2 millionin the prior year, resulting in a $0.39 increase in diluted earnings per share to$2.76in fiscal2013from$2.37in fiscal2012.



North America merchant services segment revenue increased$138.4 million, or8.8%, to$1,705.7 millionin fiscal2013from$1,567.3 millionin fiscal2012.  North America merchant services segment operating income decreased to$258.9 millionin fiscal2013from$281.3 millionin fiscal2012, with operating margins of15.2%and17.9%for fiscal2013and2012, respectively.



International merchant services segment revenue increased $33.6 million, or5.3%, to$670.2 millionin fiscal2013from$636.6 millionin fiscal2012.  International merchant services segment operating income also increased to$211.2 millionin fiscal2013from$196.1 millionin fiscal2012, with operating margins of31.5%and30.8%for fiscal2013and2012, respectively.



Refer to “Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a detailed explanation of these results.



Fiscal 2013 Acquisitions



During fiscal 2013, we completed three strategic acquisitions which expanded our distribution capabilities in the United States, the Asia-Pacific region and Spain.  In October 2012, we acquired Accelerated Payment Technologies ("APT"), a U.S. provider of fully-integrated payment technology solutions for small and medium sized merchants for a purchase price of$413.0 million, less working capital.  In December 2012, we completed the purchase of HSBC Asia's ("HSBC")44%interest in Global Payments Asia-Pacific Limited ("GPAP") for$242.0 million. Also in December 2012, Comercia Global Payments Entidad de Pago, S.L. ("Comercia") completed the acquisition of the merchant acquiring business of Banca Civica, S.A. ("Civica") from CaixaBank, S.A. ("CaixaBank"), based in Spain, for €17.5 million($22.9 millionequivalent as of the acquisition date).



Business Description



Global Payments Inc. is a leading provider of electronic payments transaction processing services for consumers, merchants, independent sales organizations (“ISO”s), financial institutions, government agencies and multi-national corporations located throughout the United States, Canada, Brazil, the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Czech Republic,  the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region.  We serve as an intermediary to facilitate electronic payment transactions and operate in two business segments, North America Merchant Services and International Merchant Services.  We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000, and we spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001.  Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments business since 1967.



Our North America merchant services and International merchant services segments target customers in many vertical industries including financial institutions, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, nonprofit organizations and utilities.  Please see Note 14 -Segment Informationin the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional segment information and “Item 1A - Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks involved with our operations.













Merchant Services Overview



Our merchant acquiring services are similar around the world in that we accept a variety of card and electronic based payments at the point of sale.  Our primary business model provides payment products and services directly to merchants as our end customers. We also provide similar products and services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our products and services, in which case, the financial institutions and select ISOs are our end customers. These particular services are marketed in the United States, Canada, and parts of Eastern Europe.





The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type.  We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number of transactions or the transaction value.



Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing



Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the payment card industry.  During a typical card transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers.  Merchant acquirers are typically financial institutions or independent processors like Global Payments. Global Payments performs a series of services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution.



In order to provide credit and signature-based debit card transaction processing services for MasterCard and Visa, we must either be a member of these systems or be designated as a certified processor by MasterCard and Visa in addition to being a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and an Independent Sales Organization by Visa. Currently, these designations are dependent upon member clearing banks of either organization sponsoring us and our adherence to the standards of the MasterCard and Visa networks.  A financial institution that is a member of the MasterCard and Visa card networks (which we refer to in this discussion as Member) must sponsor an electronic transaction payment processor such as Global Payments.  We have financial institution sponsors in the various markets where we facilitate payment transactions with whom we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements.  These agreements allow us to route transactions under the member banks' control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through MasterCard and Visa.  Certain of the member financial institutions of MasterCard and Visa are our competitors.  MasterCard and Visa set the standards with which we must comply.  In certain markets, we are members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party financial institution sponsorship.  We intend to pursue memberships in additional markets in the future.



In many markets we also provide credit card transaction processing for Discover Financial Services or Discover Card (“Discover”) and are designated as an acquirer by Discover.  This designation provides us with a direct relationship between us and Discover, and therefore a Member sponsorship is not required.  Our agreement with Discover allows us to route and clear transactions directly through Discover's network.  Otherwise, we process Discover transactions similarly to the way we process MasterCard and Visa transactions.  Discover publishes acquirer operating regulations with which we must comply.  We use our Members to assist in funding merchants for Discover transactions.



Additionally, we provide credit and debit card transaction processing for China UnionPay (“CUP”) in selected markets and through a variety of methods, and are either designated as an acquirer by China UnionPay or are sponsored by a China UnionPay member institution. China UnionPay publishes acquirer operating regulations with which we must comply.  We use our Members to assist in funding merchants for China UnionPay transactions.











How a Card Transaction Works



A typical card transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a Point of Sale ("POS") terminal card reader or mobile phone card reader, which may be sold, leased, or rented, and serviced by Global Payments.  Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of products that we offer directly or through a value added reseller (“VAR”).  The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased.



After the card and transaction information is captured by the POS device, the terminal automatically either dials a pre-programmed phone number or otherwise connects to our network through the internet or other communication channels in order to receive authorization of the transaction.  For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits.  In a debit card transaction, the company obtains authorization for the transaction from the card issuer through the payment network verifying that the cardholder has sufficient funds for the transaction.



Timing differences, interchange expense, merchant reserves and exception items cause differences between the amount the Member receives from the card networks and the amount funded to the merchants.  The standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant is funded.  However, in practice and in accordance with the terms of our sponsorship agreements with our Members, we generally follow a net settlement process by region whereby, if the incoming amount from the card networks precedes the Member's funding obligation to the merchant, we temporarily hold the surplus on behalf of the Member, in an account at the Member bank, and record a corresponding liability.  Conversely, if the Member's funding obligation to the merchant precedes the incoming amount from the card networks, the amount of the Member's net receivable position is either subsequently advanced to the Member by us or the Member satisfies this obligation with its own funds.  If the Member uses its own funds, the Member may assess a funding cost.  Each participant in the transaction process receives compensation for its services.

















Business Segments



North America Merchant Services Segment



North America merchant services revenues represent71.8%of our total consolidated fiscal2013revenues and includes operations in the United States, Canada and Brazil.  In the United States, we sell our services via ISOs, a direct sales force, trade associations, integrated payment technology, agent and VAR referral arrangements, as well as proprietary telesales groups.



Our ISO channel targets a variety of merchant types with typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less.  The ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs' requirements.  These contracts are multi-year and priced by service on a per transaction basis.  The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring products and services, with the majority of Global Payments ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring.  Because Global Payments is a primary party to the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor relationship, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant, net of interchange, is recorded as revenue.  The excess of revenue earned over our cost to process the transaction plus the ISO contractual transaction fee is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in Sales, general and administrative expenses.



Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from our agent bank, VAR and trade association referral partners signing a variety of mid-to-large sized merchants with annual bankcard volume on average above $300,000.  Our merchant portfolio is also increased by targeted campaigns and other lead generating efforts by our direct sales force.  Our sales force is paid a combination of base salary and commission. Our referral partners are paid various referral fees.



Our integrated payment technologies channel, or APT, sells integrated payment solutions to more than 30 different vertical markets gaining market share by signing new enterprise solution providers and by signing new merchants within existing enterprise solution providers already supported by APT.



Our United States revenue also includes check and gaming services and indirect merchant services.  Our check products offer merchant customers risk management alternatives, in the case of our verification and recovery offerings, or risk elimination, in the case of our guarantee offerings, by leveraging our internal and external databases of checkwriters to help decide whether









the merchant should accept a check as the form of payment from a particular checkwriter.  Our check services products are part of our direct merchant service offering.



The majority of check services involve providing check guarantee services for checks received by merchants.  Under the guarantee service, when a merchant receives a check in payment for goods and services, the transaction is submitted and analyzed by the Company. The Company either accepts or declines the check for warranty coverage under its guarantee service.  If the Company approves the check for warranty coverage and the merchant accepts the check, the merchant will either deposit the check in its bank account or process it for settlement through the company's electronic check acceptance service.  If the check is returned unpaid by the merchant's bank and the returned check meets the requirements for warranty coverage, the Company is required to purchase the check from the merchant at its face value.    The Company then owns the purchased check and pursues collection of the check from the check writer.  As a result, the Company bears the risk of loss if the Company is unable to collect the returned check from the check writer.  We earn a fee for each check guaranteed, which generally is determined as a percentage of the check amount.



In the specialized vertical market of gaming, our VIP LightSpeed proprietary software and VIP Preferred Advantage product provide the gaming industry with the tools necessary to establish revolving check cashing limits for a casino's customers.  Our gaming products allow fast access to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk.  We derive revenue from our gaming products primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value.



In the indirect merchant services channel we provide merchant services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our products and services.



International Merchant Services Segment



International merchant services revenues represent 28.2% of our total consolidated fiscal2013revenues and include operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.  Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, Czech Republic, and the Russian Federation.  Our Asia-Pacific region includes the following eleven countries and territories: Brunei, China, Hong Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan.  We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships.  In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services.



Total revenues from our segments, by geography, are as follows (in thousands):



Year Ended May 31,201320122011Revenues:United States$1,394,675$1,234,818$1,031,997Canada311,000332,434330,872North America merchant services1,705,6751,567,2521,362,869Europe522,593489,300359,567Asia-Pacific147,655147,295137,366International merchant services670,248636,595496,933Consolidated revenues$2,375,923$2,203,847$1,859,802



Industry Overview





Payment processing service providers offer electronic transaction payment processing and support services directly to merchants, multinational corporations, financial institutions and ISOs.



We are a leading mid-market and small-market merchant acquirer in the United States and we primarily compete with First Data Corporation, Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech, Wells Fargo, Vantiv, Heartland Payment Systems and Elavon.











In Canada, we have significant market share.  We consider Moneris Solutions, Chase Paymentech Solutions and TD Merchant Services to be major competitors in the Canadian market. Moneris Solutions is a joint venture between the Royal Bank of Canada and the Bank of Montreal.



In the European and Asia-Pacific regions, financial institutions remain the primary providers of payment processing services to merchants, although the outsourcing of merchant processing services to third-party service providers is becoming more prevalent.  Processing services have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at a competitive price.



In Spain, we hold the number one market share position and our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A, Caja Madrid, Santander, and Banco Popular although all banks offer some form of card processing in line with the traditional full service model in the market.



In the United Kingdom, we believe we hold the number three market position compared to our primary competitors WorldPay and Barclays.  In Spain, we hold the number one market share position and our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A and Caja Madrid, although all banks offer some form of card processing in line with the traditional full service model in the market.  While we have a market-leading position with our partner CaixaBank, we are expecting similar models to become more prevalent as further consolidation occurs in the banking sector.  We believe we hold the number one market share position amongst non-bank processors in the Russian Federation in a highly fragmented payments market. Our competition is made up of various financial institutions, including Sberbank, VTB, Raiffeisen Bank, and Russian Standard Bank.  In the Czech Republic, our primary competitors are First Data, SiNSYS, and Euronet.  In the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competition is from financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services in each of our eleven markets.



As a result of continued growth in our industry, several large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations both domestically and internationally in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint ventures.  We believe that the electronic payment transaction processing industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that do not have the necessary infrastructure may look to exit the business.





Strategy



We seek to leverage the adoption of, and transition to, card and electronic-based payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels and through acquisitions and also enter new markets through acquisitions around the world.  We intend to continue to invest in and leverage our technology infrastructure and our people to increase our penetration in existing markets.   Our objectives include:



•grow our direct merchant services market share by concentrating on the small and mid-market merchant segments, while selectively targeting national merchants that meet our profitability criteria;

•expand our direct merchant services distribution channels, including our existing sales force, ISOs, original equipment manufacturer (“OEMs”), VARs, e-commerce, mobile wallet software and other referral relationships;

•focus on high potential markets and channels including emerging technologies;

•continue to develop seamless multinational solutions for leading global customers;









•provide customer service at levels that exceed our competition, while investing in technology, training and product enhancements;

•provide enhanced products and services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing products and developing new systems and services to blend technology with customer needs;

•drive efficiencies throughout our technology infrastructure ;

•pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions or investments in and alliances with companies that have high growth potential or significant market presence





Safeguarding Our Business



Privacy and security are central to our service.  We work with information security and forensics firms and employ advanced technologies to investigate and address issues related to processing system security.  We also work with industry third parties, regulators and law enforcement to resolve security incidents and assist in efforts to prevent unauthorized access to our processing system.



In early March 2012, we identified and self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system. Our investigation also revealed potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from merchants who applied for processing services. The merchants who could potentially be affected are limited to those based in the U.S. We cannot verify those potentially affected as it is unclear whether any information was exported; however, we notified potentially-affected individuals and made available credit monitoring and identity protection insurance at no cost to the individuals.



As a result of this event, certain card networks removed us from their list of PCI DSS compliant service providers. Our work to remediate our systems and processes is complete. We hired a Qualified Security Assessor, or QSA, to conduct an independent review of the PCI DSS compliance of our systems. Our QSA completed the evaluation of our remediation work. Global Payments Direct, Inc., our primary operating entity, has been returned to the list of PCI DSS compliant service providers and we have received reports on compliance covering all of our systems. To date, we have not experienced a material loss of revenue that we can confirm has been related to this event. However, this event and our related remediation efforts could potentially have a negative impact on future revenues.  Please see Note 2 - Processing System Intrusion in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional processing system intrusion information.



Employees



As ofMay 31, 2013, we had 3,954 employees.  Many of our employees are highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction payment processing.  We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key technical employees.



Government Regulation



Various aspects of our business are subject to regulation and supervision under federal, state and local laws in the United States, as well as laws and regulations that affect the electronic payments industry in the countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to rules promulgated by the various payment networks, including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, China UnionPay and Interac; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; as well as a variety of other regulations, including escheat laws and applicable privacy and information security regulations.  In addition, because we provide data processing services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC). Set forth below is a brief summary of some of the significant laws and regulations that apply to the Company. These descriptions are not exhaustive and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provision.



The Dodd-Frank Act



On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which has resulted in significant structural and other changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (“Board”) to regulate the debit interchange transaction fees that a card issuer or payment card network receives or charges for an electronic debit transaction.  The Act requires that these fees be “reasonable and proportional” to the cost incurred by the card issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transaction.  On June 29, 2011, the Board announced the final rules governing debit card interchange fees, and routing and exclusivity restrictions. Under these rules, debit interchange rates for card issuers with assets of $10 billion or more









are capped at $0.21 per transaction and an ad valorem component of 5 basis points to reflect a portion of the issuer's fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuers, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs.  In addition, the rules contain prohibitions on network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions that require a card issuer to enable at least two unaffiliated networks on each debit card, prohibit card networks from entering into exclusivity arrangements, and restrict the ability of issuers or networks to mandate transaction routing requirements.  The interchange fee limitations and prohibition on merchant routing restrictions took effect on October 1, 2011. The prohibition on network exclusivity arrangements took effect on October 1, 2011 for payment card networks and April 1, 2012 for most debit card issuers. In addition, the prohibition on network exclusivity arrangements were effective for certain health and benefit cards and general-use prepaid cards on April 1, 2013.





Payment Network Rules



We are subject to the rules of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, China UnionPay and Interac, and other payment networks.  In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with MasterCard and Visa as service providers for member institutions and with other networks. Accordingly, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions.



Banking Laws and Regulations



Because we provide data processing and technology services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the FFIEC.  The FFIEC is an interagency body comprised of the federal bank and credit union regulators (i.e. the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection). The FFIEC examines large data processors in order to identify and mitigate risks associated with systemically significant service providers, including specifically the risks they may pose to the banking industry. In addition, we are subject to Directive 2007/64/EC in the European Union (the "Payment Services Directive”), which was implemented in most European Union member states through national legislation. As a result of this legislation, we are subject to regulation and oversight in certain EU member nations, including the requirement that we maintain specified regulatory capital.



Privacy and Information Security Laws



We provide services that may be subject to various state, federal and foreign privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which applies to a broad range of financial institutions and to companies that provide services to financial institutions. We are also subject to foreign data protection and privacy laws.  Among other things, these foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information.  These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and removal or elimination of personal information. Certain state laws also restrict the ability of the Company to collect and utilize certain types of information such as Social Security and driver's license numbers.



Anti-money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Requirements











Regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) of the U.S. Department of Treasury  place prohibitions and restrictions on all U.S. citizens and entities, including the Company, with respect to transactions by U.S. persons with specified countries and individuals and entities identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals list (for example, individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, countries subject to certain economic and trade sanctions, as well as terrorists, terrorist organizations and narcotics traffickers identified by OFAC under programs that are not country specific).  Similar requirements apply to transactions and to dealings with persons and entities specified in lists maintained in other countries. We have developed procedures and controls that are designed to monitor and address legal and regulatory requirements and developments and that allow our customers to protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities.



Debt Collection Laws



Our subsidiaries, Global Payments Check Services, Inc. and Global Payments Check Recovery Services, Inc., are subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state laws in connection with their check guarantee and recovery services, which guarantee the payment of checks or collection of returned checks on behalf of certain merchants. These laws are designed to eliminate abusive, deceptive, and unfair debt collection practices and require licensing at the state level. Global Payments Check Services, Inc. and Global Payments Check Recovery Services, Inc. have procedures in place to comply with the requirements of these laws and are licensed in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states.





Escheat Laws



We are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property laws in the U.S. and in foreign countries that require us to transfer to certain government authorities the unclaimed property of others that we hold when that property has been unclaimed for a certain period of time.  Moreover, we are subject to audit by state regulatory authorities with regard to our escheatment practices.



Where to Find More Information



We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website at www.sec.gov.  In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor information section of our website at www.globalpaymentsinc.com free of charge.  Certain materials relating to our corporate governance, including our code of ethics for senior financial officers, are also available in the investor information section of our website.  Copies of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Form 10-K.  You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at (770) 829-8234.  We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report.



Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room, and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol “GPN.”



SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, DC  20549

(You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.)



NYSE Euronext

20 Broad Street

New York, NY  10005

















