ITEM 1- BUSINESS



Recent Developments



Financial Highlights



In the year endedMay 31, 2014, or fiscal2014, our revenue increased7.5% to$2,554.2 millionfrom$2,375.9 millionin the year endedMay 31, 2013, or fiscal2013.  This increase in revenue was due to growth driven by our U.S. direct channels, including the addition of recently acquired Payment Processing, Inc. ("PayPros"), as well as growth in Canada, our European markets and the Asia Pacific region.



Consolidated operating income was$405.5 millionfor fiscal2014, compared to$357.2 millionfor fiscal2013.  Consolidated operating income includes a processing system intrusion credit of$7.0 millionfor fiscal2014and a charge of$36.8 millionfor fiscal2013.  Net income attributable to Global Payments increased$29.2 million, or13.5%, to$245.3 millionin fiscal2014from$216.1 millionin the prior year, resulting in a$0.61increase in diluted earnings per share to$3.37in fiscal2014from$2.76in fiscal2013.



North America merchant services segment revenue increased$103.3 million, or6.1%, to$1,809.0 millionin fiscal2014from$1,705.7 millionin fiscal2013.  North America merchant services segment operating income increased to$272.3 millionin fiscal2014from$258.9 millionin fiscal2013, with operating margins of15.0%and15.2%for fiscal2014and2013, respectively.



International merchant services segment revenue increased$75.0 million, or11.2%, to$745.2 millionin fiscal2014from$670.2 millionin fiscal2013.  International merchant services segment operating income also increased to$240.2 millionin fiscal2014from$211.2 millionin fiscal2013, with operating margins of32.2%and31.5%for fiscal2014and2013, respectively.



OnFebruary 28, 2014, we closed a five-year senior unsecured$1,250.0 millionterm loan and a$1,000.0 millionrevolving credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions. The proceeds from the term loan were used to repay the outstanding balance of the previously existing term loan and credit facility and to partially fund the acquisition of PayPros onMarch 4, 2014.



See “Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a detailed explanation of our operating results.



Acquisition of PayPros



OnMarch 4, 2014, we completed the acquisition of PayPros for$420.0 millionin cash plus$7.7 millionin cash for working capital, subject to adjustment based on a final determination of working capital. We funded the acquisition with a combination of cash on hand and proceeds from our new debt facilities discussed above. PayPros, based in California, is a provider of fully-integrated payment solutions for small-to-medium sized merchants in the United States.  PayPros delivers its products and services through a network of technology-based enterprise software partners to vertical markets that are complementary to the markets served by Accelerated Payment Technologies ("APT"), which we acquired on October 1, 2012. See Note 4 - Business and Intangible Asset Acquisitions and Joint Ventures in the notes to consolidated financial statements for further discussion.



Business Description



Global Payments is one of the largest worldwide providers of payment solutions for merchants, value-added resellers, enterprise software providers, financial institutions, government agencies, multi-national corporations and independent sales organizations ("ISOs") located throughout North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region and in Brazil.  We provide payment and digital commerce solutions and operate in two business segments, North America merchant services and International merchant services.  We were incorporated in Georgia as Global Payments Inc. in September 2000, and we spun-off from our former parent company on January 31, 2001.  Including our time as part of our former parent company, we have been in the payments business since 1967.











Our North America merchant services and International merchant services segments target customers in many vertical industries including financial institutions, gaming, government, health care, professional services, restaurants, retail, universities, nonprofit organizations and utilities.  See Note 14 - Segment Information in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional segment information and “Item 1A - Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks involved with our operations.



Merchant Services Overview



Our merchant acquiring services are similar around the world in that we enable our merchant customers to accept check, card, electronic and digital-based payments at the point of sale.  Our primary business model provides payment products and services directly to merchants as our end customers. We also provide similar products and services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our products and services, in which case the financial institutions and select ISOs are our end customers.





The majority of merchant services revenue is generated on services priced as a percentage of transaction value or a specified fee per transaction, depending on card type.  We also charge other fees based on specific services that are unrelated to the number or value of transactions.



Credit and Debit Card Transaction Processing



Credit and debit networks establish uniform regulations that govern much of the payment card industry.  During a typical payment transaction, the merchant and the card issuer do not interface directly with each other, but instead rely on merchant acquirers like Global Payments to facilitate transaction processing. We perform a series of services including authorization, electronic draft capture, file transfers to facilitate funds settlement and certain exception-based, back office support services such as chargeback and retrieval resolution.



We process funds settlement under two models, a sponsorship model and a direct membership model.  Under the sponsorship model, we are designated as a Merchant Service Provider by MasterCard and an ISO by Visa.  To be designated as a certified processor, member clearing banks ("Member") sponsor us and require our adherence to the standards of the networks.  In certain markets, we have sponsorship or depository and clearing agreements with financial institution sponsors. These agreements allow us to route transactions under the Members' control and identification numbers to clear credit card transactions through MasterCard and Visa.   In this model, the standards of the card networks restrict us from performing funds settlement or accessing merchant settlement funds, and, instead, require that these funds be in the possession of the Member until the merchant is funded.



Under the direct membership model, we are direct members in various payment networks, allowing us to process and fund transactions without third-party sponsorship.  In this model, we route and clear transactions directly through the card brand’s network and are not restricted from performing funds settlement.  Otherwise, we process these transactions similarly to how we process transactions in the sponsorship model.  We are required to adhere to the standards of the various networks in which we are direct members.  We maintain relationships with financial institutions, which may also serve as our Member sponsors for other card brands or in other markets, to assist with funds settlement.  In fiscal 2014, we increased the number of markets in which we are Members in certain of the payment networks, and we intend to continue to pursue membership in additional markets in the future.











How a Card Transaction Works



A typical payment transaction begins when a cardholder presents a card for payment at a merchant location where the card information is captured by a point of sale ("POS") terminal card reader or mobile device card reader, which may be sold, leased, or rented, and serviced by Global Payments.  Alternatively, card and transaction information may be captured and transmitted to our network through a POS device by one of a number of products that we offer directly or through a value added reseller (“VAR”).  The terminal electronically records sales draft information, such as the card identification number, transaction date and value of the goods or services purchased.



After the card and transaction information is captured by the POS device, the terminal automatically connects to our network through the internet or other communication channels in order to receive authorization of the transaction.  For a credit card transaction, authorization services generally refer to the process in which the card issuer indicates whether a particular credit card is authentic and whether the impending transaction value will cause the cardholder to exceed defined credit limits.  In a debit card transaction, the Company obtains authorization for the transaction from the card issuer through the payment network verifying that the cardholder has sufficient funds for the transaction.















Business Segments



North America Merchant Services Segment



North America merchant services revenues represent70.8%of our total consolidated fiscal2014revenues and include operations in the United States and Canada. In the United States, we sell our services via a direct sales force utilizing referral partners of agent banks and trade associations, integrated payment technology, agent and enterprise software providers and VAR referral arrangements, ISOs, as well as proprietary telesales groups.



Direct Sales.Our direct sales channel receives qualified leads from agent banks and trade association referral partners for a variety of mid-sized to large merchants with annual bankcard volume averaging above $300,000. Our merchant portfolio is also expanded through targeted campaigns and other lead-generating efforts by our direct sales force. Our referral partners are paid referral fees.



Integrated Payment Solutions.Our integrated payment solutions channel, which includes APT and PayPros, sells integrated payment technologies to more than 60 vertical markets, gaining market share by signing new enterprise solution providers and new merchants within existing enterprise solution providers already supported by the Company.



Independent Sales Organizations.Our ISO channel targets a variety of merchant types with typical annual bankcard volumes of $150,000 or less. ISOs contract with Global Payments to provide processing and other services depending on the ISOs' requirements. These contracts are multi-year and priced by service on a per transaction basis. The ISOs act as a third-party sales group selling Global Payments-branded merchant acquiring products and services, with the majority of Global Payments' ISOs marketing direct merchant acquiring.  Because Global Payments is a primary party to the merchant contract as a result of our bank sponsor relationship or card network membership, the full amount of fees collected from the merchant, net of interchange fees, is recorded as revenue. The excess of revenue earned over our cost to process the transaction plus the ISO contractual transaction fee is remitted to the ISO in the form of a residual payment on a monthly basis and is recorded in sales, general and administrative expenses.



Gaming and Check Services.Our U.S. revenue also includes gaming and check services.   As part of our direct merchant service offering, we offer a comprehensive suite of cash access solutions to the gaming vertical market.  These solutions include both traditional and electronic check cashing, credit and debit card cash advance and other services specific this market.  Our VIP LightSpeed proprietary software platform allows customers of casinos in U.S. and Canada fast access to cash with high limits so that gaming establishments can increase the flow of money to their gaming floors and reduce risk.   We derive revenue from our gaming products primarily based on a percentage of the transaction value.



We also offer our merchant customers check verification and guarantee service.  The majority of check services involve providing check guarantee services for checks received by merchants.  Under the guarantee service, when a merchant receives a check in payment for goods and services, the transaction is submitted and analyzed by the Company. The Company either approves or declines the check for warranty coverage under its guarantee service.  If the Company approves the check for warranty coverage and the merchant accepts the check, the merchant will either deposit the check in its bank account or, as in the majority of instances, process it for settlement through the Company's electronic check acceptance service.  When an approved check or electronic debit is returned unpaid by the merchant's bank, the Company pays the merchant the face value of the check and, as the assignee of the check, the Company pursues collection of the amount of the check from the checkwriter.  As a result, the Company bears the risk of loss if the Company is unable to collect the returned check from the checkwriter.  We earn a fee for each guaranteed check, which generally is determined as a percentage of the check amount.



Indirect Merchant Services.In the indirect merchant services channel, we provide merchant services to financial institutions and a limited number of ISOs that, in turn, resell our products and services.



International Merchant Services Segment



International merchant services revenues represent29.2%of our total consolidated fiscal2014revenues and are derived from operations in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region.  Our business in Europe is primarily located in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation.  Our Asia-Pacific region includes the following eleven countries and territories: Brunei, China, Hong Kong, India, Macau, Malaysia, Maldives, the Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Taiwan.  We have a direct sales force in the United Kingdom, Spain, the Republic of Malta, the Russian Federation and the Asia-Pacific region through which we primarily sell our direct merchant acquiring services while leveraging our bank referral relationships.  In the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, we also provide indirect merchant acquiring services.









See Note 14 - Segment Information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for information about each segment's operating income and assets.



Total revenues from our segments, by region, are as follows (in thousands):

Year Ended May 31,201420132012Revenues:United States$1,488,659$1,394,675$1,234,818Canada320,333311,000332,434North America merchant services1,808,9921,705,6751,567,252Europe587,463522,593489,300Asia-Pacific157,781147,655147,295International merchant services745,244670,248636,595Consolidated revenues$2,554,236$2,375,923$2,203,847



Our foreign operations subject us to various risks, including, without limitation, currency exchange risks and political, economic and regulatory risks. See Item 1A -Risk Factorsfor additional information about these risks.



Industry Overview



Competition



We are a leading mid-market and small-market merchant acquirer in the United States, where we compete primarily with Bank of America Merchant Services, Chase Paymentech, Elavon, First Data Corporation, Heartland Payment Systems, Vantiv, and Wells Fargo.



We have significant market share in Canada, where we compete primarily with Chase Paymentech Solutions, Moneris Solutions,  and TD Merchant Services. Moneris Solutions is a joint venture between the Bank of Montreal and the Royal Bank of Canada.



In the Europe and the Asia-Pacific regions, financial institutions remain the primary providers of payment processing services to merchants, although the outsourcing of merchant processing services to third-party service providers is becoming more prevalent.  Processing services have become increasingly complex, requiring significant capital commitments to develop, maintain and update the systems necessary to provide these advanced services at a competitive price.



In the United Kingdom, we believe we hold the number three market position compared to our primary competitors Barclays and WorldPay.  In Spain, where we hold the number one market share position, our primary competitors are Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A., Banco Popular, Caja Madrid, and Santander.  We believe we hold the number one market share position among nonbank processors in the Russian Federation, which is a highly fragmented payments market. Our competitors include various financial institutions, such as Raiffeisen Bank, Russian Standard Bank, Sberbank, and VTB.  In the Czech Republic, our primary competitors are Euronet, First Data Corporation, and SiNSYS.  In the Asia-Pacific region, our primary competitors include financial institutions that offer merchant acquiring services in each of our eleven markets.



Emerging Trends



As a result of continued growth in our industry, several large merchant acquirers, including us, have expanded operations both domestically and internationally in the form of acquisitions and the creation of alliances and joint ventures.  We believe that the electronic payment transaction processing industry will continue to consolidate as banks and independent processors that lack the necessary infrastructure may look to exit the business.



We believe that electronic and digital-based payment transactions will continue to grow in the future and that an increasing percentage of these transactions will be processed through emerging technologies.  To help reduce transaction costs and accelerate the transaction approval process, we have integrated new technologies into our service offerings, such as internet protocol communications and check truncation or conversion at the point of sale.  In order to support and integrate payments into our merchants' various business solutions utilized through VARs, we created a developer portal simplifying the payment enablement









process with multiple VARs.  We are also able to offer our customers integrated e-commerce solutions.  Through our VAR relationships, we have several products that support radio frequency identification for contactless payment cards as well as near field communication enabled smartphones that contain mobile wallet software, which position us to participate in mobile payments. We also offer customers the ability to accept payments utilizing a mobile device as a point of sale terminal. As mobile payments continue to evolve and are desired by merchants and consumers, we intend to continue partnering and developing new products and services that will leverage the benefits that these new technologies can offer our customers.  We also believe that new markets will continue to develop in areas that have been previously dominated by paper-based transactions.  We expect industries such as e-commerce, healthcare, education, government, recurring payments and business-to-business to continue to see transaction volumes migrate to more electronic-based settlement solutions.  We believe that the continued development of new products and services and the emergence of new vertical markets will be a factor in the growth of our business for the foreseeable future.



Strategy



We seek to leverage the adoption of, and transition to, card, electronic and digital-based payments by expanding market share in our existing markets through our distribution channels and through acquisitions while also seeking to enter new markets through acquisitions around the world.  We intend to continue to invest in and leverage our technology infrastructure and our people to increase our penetration in existing markets.



Our objectives include the following:



•Grow and control our direct distribution by adding new merchants and partners;

•Deliver innovative  products and services by developing value-added applications, enhancing existing products and developing new systems and services to blend technology with customer needs;

•Leverage technology and operational advantages throughout our global footprint;

•Continue to develop seamless multinational solutions for leading global customers;

•Provide customer service at levels that exceed our competition, while investing in technology, training and product enhancements; and

•Pursue potential domestic and international acquisitions of, investments in, and alliances with companies that have high growth potential or significant market presence.



Safeguarding Our Business



Privacy and security are central to our service.  We work with information security and forensics firms and employ advanced technologies to investigate and address issues related to processing system security.  We also work with industry third parties, regulators and law enforcement to resolve security incidents and assist in efforts to prevent unauthorized access to our processing system.



In early March 2012, we identified and self-reported unauthorized access into a limited portion of our North America card processing system and potential unauthorized access to servers containing personal information collected from U.S. merchants who applied for processing services. As a result of this event, certain card networks temporarily removed us from their lists of Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (“PCI DSS”) compliant service providers. After remediating our processes and systems, we returned to the lists of PCI DSS compliant service providers in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, and we have received reports on compliance covering all of our systems. We did not experience any material loss of revenue that we can confirm was related to this event. However, any future intrusion could potentially have a negative impact on future revenues.  See Note 2 - Processing System Intrusion in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional processing system intrusion information.



Employees



As ofMay 31, 2014, we had 4,135 employees.  Many of our employees are highly skilled in technical areas specific to electronic transaction payment processing.  We believe that our current and future operations depend substantially on retaining our key employees.











Regulation



Various aspects of our business are subject to regulation and supervision under federal, state and local laws in the United States, as well as foreign laws and regulations. In addition, we are subject to rules promulgated by the various payment networks, including Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, CUP and Interac; the Payment Services Directive in Europe; as well as a variety of other regulations, including escheat laws and applicable privacy and information security regulations.  Because we provide data processing services to banks and other financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (the "FFIEC"). Set forth below is a brief summary of some of the significant laws and regulations that apply to us. These descriptions are not exhaustive and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provision.



The Dodd-Frank Act



In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which resulted in significant structural and other changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (the “Federal Reserve Board”) to regulate the debit interchange transaction fees that a card issuer or payment card network receives or charges for an electronic debit transaction.  Pursuant to Section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act (commonly referred to as the “Durbin Amendment”), these fees must be “reasonable and proportional” to the cost incurred by the card issuer in authorizing, clearing and settling the transaction.  Effective in October 2011, pursuant to regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board, debit interchange rates for card issuers with assets of $10 billion or more are capped at $0.21 per transaction and an ad valorem component of 5 basis points to reflect a portion of the issuer's fraud losses plus, for qualifying issuers, an additional $0.01 per transaction in debit interchange for fraud prevention costs. The cap on interchange fees has not had a material direct impact on the Company’s results of operations.



In addition, the rules contain prohibitions on network exclusivity and merchant routing restrictions that require a card issuer to enable at least two unaffiliated networks on each debit card, prohibit card networks from entering into exclusivity arrangements, and restrict the ability of issuers or networks to mandate transaction routing requirements.  The prohibition on network exclusivity arrangements took effect in October 2011 for payment card networks and in April 2012 for most debit card issuers. The prohibition on network exclusivity arrangements was effective for certain health and benefit cards and general-use prepaid cards in April 2013. We do not expect the prohibition on network exclusivity to significantly impact our ability to pass on network fees and other costs to our customers.



The Dodd-Frank Act also created the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “FSOC”), which was established to, among other things, identify risks to the stability of the U.S. financial system.  The FSOC has the authority to require supervision and regulation of nonbank financial companies that the FSOC determines pose a systemic risk to the U.S. financial system. At this point, it is unclear whether the Company would be subject to additional systemic risk-related oversight.



Payment Network Rules



We are subject to the rules of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, CUP, Interac and other payment networks.  In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with MasterCard and Visa as service providers for member institutions and with other networks. Accordingly, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card networks for certain acts or omissions.



Banking Laws and Regulations



The FFIEC is an interagency body comprised of the federal bank and credit union regulators (i.e. the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection). The FFIEC examines large data processors in order to identify and mitigate risks associated with systemically significant service providers, including specifically the risks they may pose to the banking industry. In addition, we are subject to Directive 2007/64/EC in the European Union (the “Payment Services Directive”), which was implemented in most European Union member states through national legislation. As a result of this legislation, we are subject to regulation and oversight in certain European Union member nations, including the requirement that we maintain specified regulatory capital; however, these regulatory capital requirements are generally insignificant to our total assets and total equity and have no material effect on our liquidity.











Privacy and Information Security Laws



We provide services that may be subject to various state, federal and foreign privacy laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which applies to a broad range of financial institutions and to companies that provide services to financial institutions, including the check and gaming portion of our business. We are also subject to a variety of foreign data protection and privacy laws, including, without limitation, Directive 95/46/EC, as implemented in each member state of the European Union.  Among other things, these foreign and domestic laws, and their implementing regulations, restrict the collection, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and provide individuals with certain rights to prevent use and disclosure of protected information.  These laws also impose requirements for safeguarding and removal or elimination of personal information. Certain state laws also restrict our ability to collect and utilize certain types of information such as Social Security and driver's license numbers.



Anti-money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Requirements



Certain portions of our business are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (collectively, the “BSA”). The BSA, among other things, requires money services businesses to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity and maintain transaction records. Regulations issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) of the U.S. Department of Treasury  place prohibitions and restrictions on all U.S. citizens and entities, including the Company, with respect to transactions by U.S. persons with specified countries and individuals and entities identified on OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals list (for example, individuals and companies owned or controlled by, or acting for or on behalf of, countries subject to certain economic and trade sanctions, as well as terrorists, terrorist organizations and narcotics traffickers identified by OFAC under programs that are not country specific).  Similar requirements apply to transactions and dealings with persons and entities specified in lists maintained in other countries. We have developed procedures and controls that are designed to monitor and address legal and regulatory requirements and developments and that allow our customers to protect against having direct business dealings with such prohibited countries, individuals or entities.



Debt Collection Laws



The check and gaming portion of our business is subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and similar state laws in connection with our check guarantee and recovery services, which guarantee the payment of checks or collection of returned checks on behalf of certain merchants. These laws are designed to eliminate abusive, deceptive and unfair debt collection practices and require licensing at the state level. We have procedures in place to comply with the requirements of these laws and are licensed in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states.



Escheat Laws



We are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property laws in the United States and in foreign countries that require us to transfer to certain government authorities the unclaimed property of others that we hold when that property has been unclaimed for a certain period of time.  Moreover, we are subject to audit by state regulatory authorities with regard to our escheatment practices.



Foreign Laws and Regulations



We are subject to foreign laws and regulations that affect the electronic payments industry in each of the foreign countries in which we operate. Some of these countries, such as the Russian Federation and Spain, have undergone significant political, economic and social change in recent years. In these countries, there is a greater risk of new, unforeseen changes that could result from, among other things, instability or changes in a country’s or region’s economic conditions; changes in laws or regulations or in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations, whether caused by a change in government or otherwise; increased difficulty of conducting business in a country or region due to actual or potential political or military conflict; or action by the European Union or the United States, Canada or other governments that may restrict our ability to transact business in a foreign country or with certain foreign individuals or entities, such as sanctions by or against the Russian Federation.



Where to Find More Information



We file annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You may read and print materials that we have filed with the SEC from its website atwww.sec.gov.  In addition, certain of our SEC filings, including our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to them can be viewed and printed from the investor information section of our









website atwww.globalpaymentsinc.comfree of charge.  Certain materials relating to our corporate governance, including our codes of ethics applicable to our directors, senior financial officers and other employees, are also available in the investor information section of our website.  Copies of our filings, specified exhibits and corporate governance materials are also available, free of charge, by writing us using the address on the cover of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  You may also telephone our investor relations office directly at (770) 829-8234.  We are not including the information on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report.



Our SEC filings may also be viewed and copied at the following SEC public reference room and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange, where our common stock is quoted under the symbol “GPN.”



SEC Public Reference Room

100 F Street, N.E.

Washington, DC  20549

(You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.)



NYSE Euronext

20 Broad Street

New York, NY  10005













