Items 1 and 2.  Business and Properties

Hess Corporation, incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1920, is a global Exploration and Production (E&P) company engaged in exploration, development, production, transportation, purchase and sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas with production operations located primarily in the United States (U.S.), Denmark, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) and Malaysia.

We conduct exploration activities primarily offshore Guyana, Suriname, Canada and in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico.  At the Stabroek Block (Hess 30%), offshore Guyana, we have participated in twelve significant discoveries.

The Liza Phase 1 development was sanctioned in 2017 and is expected to startup in early 2020 with production reaching up to 120,000 gross bopd

.  The discovered resources to date on the Stabroek Block are expected to underpin the potential for at least five FPSOs producing more than 750,000 gross bopd by 2025.

Our Midstream operating segment provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating NGLs; gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and NGLs; storing and terminaling propane, and water handling services primarily in the Bakken and Three Forks Shale plays in the Williston Basin area of North Dakota.

See

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

for further details.

Exploration and Production

Proved Reserves

Proved reserves are calculated using the average price during the twelve-month period ending December 31 determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of each month within the year, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements, and exclude escalations based on future conditions.  Crude oil prices used in the determination of proved reserves at December 31, 2018 were $65.55 per barrel for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) (2017: $51.19) and $72.08 per barrel for Brent (2017: $54.87).  Our total proved developed and undeveloped reserves at December 31 were as follows:

(a)

Asia and other includes proved undeveloped reserves in Guyana of 42 million boe at December 31, 2018 (2017: 45 million boe).

Proved undeveloped reserves were 41% of our total proved reserves at December 31, 2018 on a boe basis (2017: 37%).  Proved reserves held under production sharing contracts totaled 7% of our crude oil reserves and 44% of our natural gas reserves at December 31, 2018 (2017: 7% and 44%, respectively).

For additional information regarding our proved oil and gas reserves, see the

Supplementary Oil and Gas Data

to the

Consolidated Financial Statements

presented on pages 82 through 92.


Production

Worldwide crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas net production was as follows:

(a)

In August 2018, the Corporation sold its Utica Assets, onshore U.S. Utica production averaged 9,000 boepd for calendar year 2018 (2017: 19,000 boepd; 2016: 29,000 boepd).  In 2017, the Corporation sold its assets in Equatorial Guinea (November), Norway (December), and the Permian, onshore U.S. (August).  Permian production averaged 4,000 boepd for calendar year 2017 (2016: 7,000 boepd).

(b)

Includes 6,442 thousand mcf of production for 2018 (2017: 4,256 thousand mcf; 2016: 3,624 thousand mcf) from Block PM301 which is unitized into Block A-18 of the JDA.


E&P Operations

At December 31, 2018, our significant E&P assets included the following:

United States

Our production in the U.S. was from onshore properties, principally in the Bakken oil shale play in the Williston Basin of North Dakota (Bakken) and from offshore properties in the Gulf of Mexico.

Onshore:

Bakken:

At December 31, 2018, we held approximately 543,000 net acres in the Bakken with varying working interest percentages.  During 2018, we operated an average of 4.8 rigs, drilled 121 wells, completed 118 wells, and brought 104 wells on production, bringing the total operated production wells to 1,414 by year-end.  During 2018, we transitioned from utilizing sliding sleeve completion designs to pl

ug and perf completions.  During 2019, we plan to operate six rigs, drill approximately 170 wells and bring approximately 160 wells on production.  From 2019, all production wells will

use plug and perf completions, which we expect will allow us to increase peak net production to approximately 200,000 boepd by 2021.  W

e forecast net production for full year 2019 to be in the range of 135,000 boepd to 145,000 boepd, compared to production of 117,000 boepd in 2018.

Offshore:

Gulf of Mexico:

At December 31, 2018, we held approximately 75,000 net developed acres, with our production operations principally at the Baldpate (Hess 50%), Conger (Hess 38%), Hack Wilson (Hess 25%), Llano (Hess 50%), Penn State (Hess 50%), Shenzi (Hess 28%), Stampede (Hess 25%) and Tub

ular Bells (Hess 57%) Fields.  At December 31, 2018, we held approximately 270,000 net undeveloped acres, of which leases covering approximately 37,000 acres are due to expire in the next three years.

Production from the Baldpate, Conger, Llano, and Penn State Fields were shut-in following a fire at the third-party operated Enchilada platform in November 2017.  In 2018, production restarted at the Baldpate, Llano, and Penn State Fields in the first quarter, and at the Conger Field in the third quarter.  At the Hess operated Stampede Field, production commenced in January 2018.  In 2019, we plan to drill one production well and two water injection wells at the Stampede Field, one production well at the Llano Field, and one exploration well at the Esox prospect which, if successful, can be tied back into production facilities at the Tubular Bells Field.

Asia

Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA)

:

At the Carigali Hess operated offshore Block A-18 in the Gulf of Thailand (

Hess 50%

),

no drilling is planned for 2019 as contracted volumes are expected to be met from the booster compression project that came online in 2016.

Malaysia:

Our production in Malaysia comes from our interest in Block PM301 (Hess 50%), which is adjacent to and is unitized with Block A‑18 of the JDA and our 50% interest in Block PM302 located in the North Malay Basin (NMB), offshore Peninsular Malaysia.  Production from full-field development commenced in July 2017.  In 2019, we plan to continue the drilling program and development activities.

Europe

Denmark:

Production comes from our operated interest in the South Arne Field (Hess 62%).  In 2018, we decided to retain our interest in the field after offers received in a previously announced sale process did not meet our value expectations.  During 2019, we plan to drill an exploration well on License 06/16, located approximately 19 miles from South Arne.

Africa

Libya:

At the onshore Waha concession in Libya, which includes the Defa, Faregh, Gialo, North Gialo and Belhedan Fields (Hess 8%), net production averaged approximately 20,000 boepd in 2018, 10,000 boepd in 2017, and 1,000 boepd in 2016.  Production was shut-in by the operator for extended periods in 2016 due to force majeure caused by civil unrest.  The Company’s net investment in Libya was approximately $55 million at December 31, 2018.


Other Non-Producing Countries

Guyana:

At the Stabroek Block (Hess 30%), which covers approximately 6.6 million acres offshore Guyana, the operator Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited

has made twelve significant discoveries to date.  The first phase of the Liza Field development, which was sanctioned in 2017, is expected to begin producing oil by early 2020.  Phase 1 will use the Liza Destiny FPSO to produce up to 120,000 gross bopd.  Drilling of development wells in the Liza Field is continuing, subsea equipment is being prepared for installation, and the topside facilities modules have been installed on the Liza Destiny FPSO in Singapore, which is expected to arrive offshore Guyana in the third quarter of 2019.  Preparations are also underway for the installation of subsea umbilicals, risers and flowlines at the Liza Field in the spring of 2019.

Phase 2 of the Liza Field development is expected to start production by mid-2022.  Pending government and regulatory approvals, project sanction for Phase 2 is expected by the operator in the first quarter of 2019 and will include a second FPSO vessel designed to produce up to 220,000 gross bopd.  Project sanction for a third phase of development at the Payara Field is expected in 2019 with first production expected to start up as early as 2023.  In addition to the first three phases, development planning is underway for additional FPSOs.  The ultimate sizing and timing will be a function of further exploration and appraisal drilling.

The operator is currently utilizing three drillships on the block.  The Stena Carron and the Noble Tom Madden, which arrived in the third quarter of 2018, are involved in exploration and appraisal drilling.  The Noble Bob Douglas is drilling development wells for Liza Phase 1.  In 2018, the following explorations wells were drilled on the Stabroek Block (in chronological order):

Ranger-1:

The well, located approximately 60 miles northwest of the Liza discovery, encountered approximately 230 feet

of high-quality, oil-bearing carbonate reservoir.

Pacora-1

: The well encountered approximately 65 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir, and is located approximately four miles west of the Payara-1 well, which was drilled in 2017.  The operator plans to integrate this discovery into the Payara Field development.

Liza-5:

The well encountered 77 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir and is located approximately six miles northwest of the Liza-1 well, which was drilled in 2016.

Sorubim-1:

The well did not encounter commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.

Longtail-1

: The well encountered approximately 256 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir and is located approximately five miles west of the Turbot-1 well, which was drilled in 2017.

Hammerhead-1:

The well encountered approximately 197 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir

and is located approximately 13 miles to the southwest of the Liza-1 well.

Pluma-1:

The well encountered approximately 121 feet of high-quality, hydrocarbon-bearing sandstone reservoir and

represents the tenth discovery on the Block.  The well is located approximately 17 miles south of the Turbot-1 well.

In February 2019, the operator announced the eleventh and twelfth discoveries on the Stabroek Block at the Tilapia-1 and Haimara-1 wells.  The Tilapia-1 well encountered approximately 305 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoir, and is located approximately three miles west of the Longtail-1 well.  The Haimara-1 well encountered approximately 207 feet of high-quality, gas condensate-bearing sandstone reservoir, and is located approximately 19 miles east of the Pluma-1 well.

In 2019, additional drilling is planned, including appraisal of the Hammerhead, Ranger and Turbot discoveries, as well as a wider exploration program that will target additional prospects and play types on the block.

In 2018, we acquired a participating interest in the Kaieteur Block (Hess 15%), which is adjacent to the Stabroek Block.  The operator,

Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited

, expects to complete a 2D seismic shoot in 2019.

Suriname

:

We hold a 33% non-operated participating interest in

Block 42, offshore Suriname.  In 2018, the operator, Kosmos Energy Ltd., completed drilling operations on the Pontoenoe-1 exploration well.  Commercial quantities of hydrocarbons were not discovered and well results will be integrated into the ongoing evaluation for future exploration on the block.  We also hold a 33% non-operated participating interest in Block 59, offshore Suriname, where the operator ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Suriname B.V. commenced a seismic program in 2018.

Canada:

We hold a 50% participating interest in four exploration licenses offshore Nova Scotia.  In 2018, the operator, BP Canada,

completed drilling of the Aspy exploration well, which did not encounter commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  In January 2019, the partnership relinquished 50% of the Nova Scotia acreage in accordance with the license agreement timeline.  The retained acreage of approximately 1.75 million gross acres remains under evaluation.

We also hold a 25% participating interest in three BP Canada operated exploration licenses offshore Newfoundland.


Sales Commitments

We have certain long-term contracts with fixed minimum sales volume commitments for natural gas and NGLs production.  At the JDA in the Gulf of Thailand, we have annual minimum net sales commitments of approximately 80 billion cubic feet of natural gas per year through 2025 and approximately 40 billion cubic feet per year in 2026 and 2027.  At the North Malay Basin development project offshore Peninsular Malaysia, we have annual net sales commitments of approximately 55 billion cubic feet per year through 2024.  Our estimated total volume of production subject to these sales commitments is approximately 950 billion cubic feet of natural gas.  We also have NGLs minimum delivery commitments, primarily in the Bakken through 2023, of approximately 10 million barrels per year, or approximately 55 million barrels over the remaining life of the contracts.

We have not experienced any significant constraints in satisfying the committed quantities required by our sales commitments, and we anticipate being able to meet future requirements from available proved and probable reserves and projected third-party supply.


Selling Prices and Production Costs

The following table presents our average selling prices and average production costs:

(a)

Includes inter‑company transfers valued at approximate market prices, primarily onshore U.S., which include certain processing and distribution fees.

(b)

In 2017, we sold our assets in Norway.  See Note 3, Dispositions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  The average selling prices in Norway for 2016 were $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (including hedging), $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (excluding hedging), $19.48 per barrel for NGLs and $5.22 per mcf for natural gas.  The average production (lifting) costs in Norway were $24.70 per boe in 2016.

(c)

Production (lifting) costs consist of amounts incurred to operate and maintain our producing oil and gas wells, related equipment and facilities and transportation costs, including Midstream tariff expense.  Lifting costs do not include costs of finding and developing proved oil and gas reserves, production and severance taxes, or the costs of related general and administrative expenses, interest expense and income taxes.

(d)

Includes Midstream tariff expense of $13.69 per boe in 2018 (2017: $11.10 per boe; 2016: $9.24 per boe).


Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage

At December 31, 2018, gross and net undeveloped acreage amounted to:

(a)

Includes acreage held under production sharing contracts.

(b)

Includes 5.1 million gross acres (2.1 million net acres) offshore Canada.

(c)

At December 31, 2018, 26% of our net undeveloped acreage is scheduled to expire during the next three years pending results of exploration activities.  In addition, we relinquished 1.75 million gross acres (0.9 million net acres) offshore Nova Scotia, Canada in January 2019.

Gross and Net Developed Acreage, and Productive Wells

At December 31, 2018 gross and net developed acreage and productive wells amounted to:

(a)

Includes multiple completion wells (wells

producing from different formations in the same bore

hole) totaling 105 gross wells and 61 net

wells.

Exploratory and Development Wells

Net exploratory and net development wells completed during the years ended December 31 were:

(a)

In 2017, we expensed seven wells in our Deepwater Tano/Cape Three Points Block, offshore Ghana, which were drilled in prior years.

(b)

In 2016, we expensed 18 wells relating to our Equus natural gas project, offshore Australia, which were drilled in prior years.

Number of Wells in the Process of Being Drilled

At December 31, 2018, the number of wells in the process of drilling amounted to:


Midstream

The Midstream operating segment provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating NGLs; gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and NGLs; storing and terminaling propane, and water handling services primarily in the Bakken and Three Forks Shale plays in the Williston Basin area of North Dakota.  In July 2015, we sold a 50% interest in Hess Infrastructure Partners LP (HIP) to Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) for net cash consideration of approximately $2.6 billion.

In April 2017, Hess Midstream Partners LP (the “Partnership”), sold 16,997,000 common units representing limited partner interests at a price of $23 per unit in an initial public offering (IPO) for net proceeds of $365.5 million, of which $350 million was distributed equally to Hess Corporation and GIP.

At December 31, 2018, Hess Corporation and GIP each owned a direct 33.75% limited partner interest in the Partnership and a 50% indirect ownership interest through HIP in the Partnership’s general partner, which has a 2% economic interest in the Partnership plus incentive distribution rights.  The public unit holders own a 30.5% limited partner interest in the Partnership.  In turn, the Partnership owns an approximate 20% controlling interest in the operating companies that comprise our midstream joint venture, while HIP, the 50/50 joint venture between Hess Corporation and GIP, owns the remaining 80%.

The Partnership, HIP and its affiliates, and other minor water handling services wholly-owned by Hess comprise the Midstream operating segment, which currently generates substantially all of its revenues under long-term, fee-based agreements with our E&P operating segment but intends to pursue additional throughput volumes from third-parties in the Williston

Basin area.  We operate the Midstream assets under various operational and administrative services agreements.  In December 2018, we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with HIP to sell HIP our water handling business for $225 million in cash, subject to customary adjustments.  The parties expect to execute definitive agreements and close the transaction in the first quarter of 2019, subject to receipt of regulatory approvals.

At December 31, 2018, Midstream assets included the following:

•

Natural Gas Gathering and Compression:

A natural gas gathering and compression system located primarily in McKenzie, Williams and Mountrail Counties, North Dakota connecting Hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the Tioga Gas Plant and third-party pipeline facilities.  This gathering system consists of approximately 1,200 miles of high and low pressure natural gas and NGL gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to approximately 370 mmcfd, including an aggregate compression capacity of approximately 190 mmcfd.  The system also includes the Hawkeye Gas Facility, which contributes approximately 50 mmcfd of the system’s current compression capacity.

•

Crude Oil Gathering:

A crude oil gathering system located primarily in McKenzie, Williams and Mountrail Counties, North Dakota, connecting Hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the Ramberg Terminal Facility, the Tioga Rail Terminal and the Johnson’s Corner Header System.  The crude oil gathering system consists of approximately 400 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to approximately 160,000 bopd.  The system also includes the Hawkeye Oil Facility, which contributes approximately 75,000 bopd of the system’s current capacity.

•

Tioga Gas Plant:

A natural gas processing and fractionation plant located in Tioga, North Dakota, with a current processing capacity of approximately 250 mmcfd and fractionation capacity of approximately 60,000 boepd.

•

Little Missouri 4:

A natural gas processing plant under construction in McKenzie County, North Dakota, with expected processing capacity of approximately 200 mmcfd.  The operator, Targa Resources Corp., estimates the plant will be in service in the second quarter of 2019.  The Partnership owns a 50% interest in Little Missouri 4 through a joint venture with Targa Resources Corp. and will be entitled to half of the plant’s processing capacity when completed.

•

Mentor Storage Terminal:

A propane storage cavern and rail and truck loading and unloading facility located in Mentor, Minnesota, with approximately 330,000 boe of working storage capacity.

•

Ramberg Terminal Facility:

A crude oil pipeline and truck receipt terminal located in Williams County, North Dakota with a delivery capacity of up to approximately 285,000 bopd of crude oil into an interconnecting pipeline for transportation to the Tioga Rail Terminal and to multiple third-party pipelines and storage facilities.

•

Tioga Rail Terminal:

A 140,000 bopd crude oil and 30,000 boepd NGL rail loading terminal in Tioga, North Dakota that is connected to the Tioga Gas Plant, the Ramberg Terminal Facility and our crude oil gathering system.

•

Crude Oil Rail Cars:

A total of 550 crude oil rail cars, which we operate as unit trains consisting of approximately 100 to 110 crude oil rail cars.  These crude oil rail cars have been constructed to DOT-117 standards.  In 2018, HIP sold all its remaining

older specification crude oil rail cars.

•

Johnson’s Corner Header System:

A crude oil pipeline header system located in McKenzie County, North Dakota that receives crude oil by pipeline from Hess and third-parties and delivers crude oil to third-party interstate pipeline systems.  The facility has a delivery capacity of approximately 100,000 bopd of crude oil.

•

Water assets:

A produced water gathering system located primarily in McKenzie, Williams and Mountrail Counties, North Dakota, consisting of approximately 150 miles of water gathering pipelines.


Competition and Market Conditions

See

Item 1A. Risk Factors

for a discussion of competition and market conditions.

Other Items

Emergency Preparedness and Response Plans and Procedures

We have in place a series of business and asset-specific emergency preparedness, response and business continuity plans that detail procedures for rapid and effective emergency response and environmental mitigation activities.  These plans are maintained, reviewed and updated as necessary to confirm their accuracy and suitability.  Where applicable, they are also reviewed and approved by the relevant host government authorities.

Responder training and drills are routinely held worldwide to assess and continually improve the effectiveness of our plans.  Our contractors, service providers, representatives from government agencies and, where applicable, joint venture partners participate in the drills to help ensure that emergency procedures are comprehensive and can be effectively implemented.

To complement internal capabilities and to help ensure coverage for our global operations, we maintain membership contracts with a network of local, regional and global oil spill response and emergency response organizations.  At the regional and global level, these organizations include Clean Gulf Associates (CGA), Marine Spill Response Corporation (MSRC), Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC), Wild Well Control (WWC), Subsea Well Intervention Service (SWIS) and Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL).  CGA and MSRC are domestic spill response organizations and MWCC provides the equipment and personnel to contain underwater well control incidents in the Gulf of Mexico.  WWC provides firefighting, well control and engineering services globally.  OSRL is a global response organization and is available, when needed, to assist us with any of our assets.  In addition to owning response assets in their own right, the organization maintains business relationships that provide immediate access to additional critical response support services if required.  OSRL’s response assets include nearly 300 recovery and storage vessels and barges, more than 250 skimmers, over 600,000 feet of boom, 9 capping stacks and significant quantities of dispersants and other ancillary equipment, including aircraft.  In addition to external well control and oil spill response support, we have contracts with wildlife, environmental, meteorology, incident management, medical and security resources.  If we were to engage these organizations to obtain additional critical response support services, we would fund such services and, where appropriate, seek reimbursement under our insurance coverage, as described below.  In certain circumstances, we pursue and enter into mutual aid agreements with other companies and government cooperatives to receive and provide oil spill response equipment and personnel support.  We maintain close associations with emergency response organizations through our representation on the Executive Committees of CGA and MSRC, as well as the Board of Directors of OSRL.

We continue to participate in several industry-wide task forces that are studying better ways to assess the risk of and prevent onshore and offshore incidents, access and control blowouts in subsea environments, and improve containment and recovery methods.  The task forces are working closely with the oil and gas industry and international government agencies to implement improvements and increase the effectiveness of oil spill prevention, preparedness, response and recovery processes.

Insurance Coverage and Indemnification

We maintain insurance coverage that includes coverage for physical damage to our property, third-party liability, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability, general liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other coverage.  This insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages.

The amount of insurance covering physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage for which we are self‑insured, varies by asset, based on the asset's estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss.  In the case of a catastrophic event, first party coverage consists of two tiers of insurance.  The first $400 million of coverage is provided through an industry mutual insurance group.  Above this $400 million threshold, insurance is carried which ranges in value up to $1.11 billion in total, depending on the asset coverage level, as described above.  The insurance programs covering physical damage to our property exclude business interruption protection for our E&P operations.  Additionally, we carry insurance that provides third-party coverage for general liability, and sudden and accidental pollution, up to $1.08 billion, which coverage under a standard joint operating arrangement would be reduced to our participating interest.

Our insurance policies renew at various dates each year.  Future insurance coverage could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions, or additional exclusions or limitations.  In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that are deemed economically acceptable.


Generally, our drilling contracts (and most of our other offshore services contracts) provide for a mutual hold harmless indemnity structure whereby each party to the contract (the Corporation and Contractor) in

demnifies the other party for injuries or damages to their personnel and property (and, often, those of its contractors/subcontractors) regardless of fault.  Variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross neg

ligence and/or willful misconduct of a party.  Third

‑party claims, on the other hand, are generally allocated on a fault basis.

We are customarily responsible for, and indemnify the Contractor against, all claims including those from third‑parties, to the extent attributable to pollution or contamination by substances originating from our reservoirs or other property and the Contractor is responsible for and indemnifies us for all claims attributable to pollution emanating from the Contractor’s property.  Variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party.  Additionally, we are generally liable for all of our own losses and most third‑party claims associated with catastrophic losses such as damage to reservoirs, blowouts, cratering and loss of hole, regardless of cause, although exceptions for losses attributable to gross negligence and/or willful misconduct do exist.  Lastly some offshore services contracts include overall limitations of the Contractor’s liability equal to a fixed negotiated amount.  Variations may include exclusions of all contractual indemnities from the liability cap.

Under a standard joint operating agreement (JOA), each party is liable for all claims arising under the JOA, to the extent of its participating interest (operator or non-operator).  Variations include indemnity exclusions when the claim is based upon the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of the operator, in which case the operator is solely liable.  The parties to the JOA may continue to be jointly and severally liable for claims made by third-parties in some jurisdictions.  Further, under some production sharing contracts between a governmental entity and commercial parties, liability of the commercial parties to the government entity is joint and several.

Environmental

Compliance with various existing environmental and pollution control regulations imposed by federal, state, local and foreign governments is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations but increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general.  We spent approximately $15 million in 2018 for environmental remediation.  The level of other expenditures to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country environmental regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses.  For further discussion of environmental matters see

Environment, Health and Safety

in

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

.

Number of Employees

At December 31, 2018, we had 1,708 employees.

Website Access to Our Reports

We make available free of charge through our website at www.hess.com, our annual report on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q, current reports on Form 8‑K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report.  Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors are available on our website and are also available free of charge upon request to Investor Relations at our principal executive office.  We also file with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) an annual certification that our Chief Executive Officer is unaware of any violation of the NYSE’s corporate governance standards.