Items 1 and 2.  Business and Properties

Hess Corporation, incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1920, is a global Exploration and Production (E&P) company engaged in exploration, development, production, transportation, purchase and sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas with production operations located primarily in the United States (U.S.), Denmark, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) and Malaysia.

The Corporation conducts exploration activities primarily offshore Guyana, Suriname, Canada and in the Gulf of Mexico, including at the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana, where we have participated in six significant crude oil discoveries and sanctioned the first phase of a multi-phase development project at the Liza Field.  During 2017, we sold our interests in Equatorial Guinea, Norway and our enhanced oil recovery assets in the Permian Basin, onshore U.S.  The 2017 asset sales of higher cost, mature assets will provide funds toward our future development projects in the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana.  In the fourth quarter of 2017, we announced that we would commence a process to sell our interests in Denmark in 2018.

The Corporation’s Midstream operating segment provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating natural gas liquids (NGLs); gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and NGLs; and storing and terminaling propane, primarily in the Bakken and Three Forks Shale plays in the Williston Basin area of North Dakota.

On January 1, 2017, the Corporation’s interests in a Permian Basin gas plant in West Texas and related CO


assets, and water handling assets in North Dakota were transferred from the E&P segment to the Midstream segment as a result of organizational changes to the management of those assets.  In the third quarter of 2017, we completed the sale of our Midstream assets in the Permian Basin.

See

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

for further details.

Exploration and Production

Proved Reserves

Proved reserves are calculated using the average price during the twelve-month period ending December 31 determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of each month within the year, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements, and exclude escalations based on future conditions.  Crude oil prices used in the determination of proved reserves at December 31, 2017 were $51.19 per barrel for WTI (2016: $42.68) and $54.87 per barrel for Brent (2016: $44.45).  Our total proved developed and undeveloped reserves at December 31 were as follows:

(a)

At December 31, 2016, proved reserves in Norway, which were sold in 2017,

included crude oil and condensate of 165 million barrels (developed - 75 million barrels; undeveloped - 90 million barrels), natural gas liquids of 8 million barrels (developed - 3 million barrels; undeveloped - 5 million barrels), and natural gas of 160 million mcf (developed - 72 million mcf; undeveloped – 88 million mcf).

(b)

Asia and other includes proved undeveloped reserves in Guyana of 45 million boe at December 31, 2017 (2016: 0 million boe).


Proved undeveloped reserves were 37% of our total proved reserves at December 31, 2017 on a boe basis (2016: 28%).  Proved reserves he

ld under production sharing contracts totaled 7% of our crude oil reserves and 44% of our natural gas reserves at December 31, 2017 (2016: 4% and 45%, respectively).

For additional information regarding our proved oil and gas reserves, see the

Supplementary Oil and Gas Data

to the

Consolidated Financial Statements

presented on pages 81 through 91.

Production

Worldwide crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas net production was as follows:


(a)

In 2017, the Corporation sold its assets in Equatorial Guinea (November), Norway (December), and the Permian, onshore U.S. (August).  Permian production averaged 4,000 boepd in 2017 (2016:  7,000 boepd; 2015: 9,000 boepd).  See Note 2, Dispositions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

Includes 4,256 thousand mcf of production for 2017 (2016: 3,624 thousand mcf; 2015: 5,321 thousand mcf) from Block PM301 which is unitized into Block A-18 of the JDA.

E&P Operations

At December 31, 2017, our significant E&P assets include the following:

United States

Our production in the U.S. was from onshore properties, principally in the Bakken oil shale play in the Williston Basin of North Dakota (Bakken) and the Utica Basin of Ohio and from offshore properties in the Gulf of Mexico.

Onshore:

Bakken:

At December 31, 2017, we held approximately 554,000 net acres in the Bakken with varying working interest percentages.  During 2017, we operated an average of 3.5 rigs, drilled 85 wells, completed 68 wells, and brought 68 wells on production, bringing the total operated production wells to 1,315 by year-end.  Drilling and completion costs per operated well averaged $5.6 million in 2017, based on a change in our standard well design during the year to a 60-stage completion with proppant loadings of 140,000 pounds per stage compared to an average well cost of $4.8 million in 2016 using a 50-stage completion with proppant loadings of 70,000 pounds per stage.  During 2018, we plan to increase our rig count in the second half of the year to six rigs from four rigs, to drill approximately 120 wells and bring approximately 95 wells on production.  In addition, our capital budget for 2018 will fund pad construction in preparation for 2019 drilling.  We forecast net production for full year 2018 to be in the range of 115,000 boepd to 120,000 boepd, compared to production of 105,000 boepd in 2017.

Utica:

We own a 50% working interest in approximately 37,000 net acres in the wet gas area of the Utica Basin of Ohio.  There was no drilling activity in the Utica in 2017.  In 2018, we expect to complete and bring on production five previously drilled wells.

Offshore:

At December 31, 2017, we held interests in 73 blocks in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.  Our production offshore in the Gulf of Mexico was principally from the Baldpate (Hess 50%), Conger (Hess 38%), Hack Wilson (Hess 25%), Llano (Hess 50%), Penn State (Hess 50%), Shenzi (Hess 28%) and Tubular Bells (Hess 57%) Fields.  In addition, we are operator of the Stampede development project (Hess 25%).  At December 31, 2017, we held approximately 210,000 net undeveloped acres, of which leases covering approximately 55,000 acres are due to expire in the next three years.


Significant events relating to operations in

the Gulf of Mexico during 2017 were as follows:

Producing assets:

Production from the Baldpate, Conger, Llano and Penn State Fields were shut-in following a fire at the third-party operated Enchilada platform in November 2017.  Prior to the shut-down, net production from these assets was approximately 30,000 boepd.  Production at the Baldpate Field restarted in mid-February and is expected to restart at the Penn State Field in the first quarter, at the Llano Field in the second quarter, and at the Conger Field in the third quarter of 2018.

Penn State:

At this Hess operated Field,

we drilled one production well that was completed in November 2017.

Stampede:

At this Hess operated project in the Green Canyon area of the Gulf of Mexico, in 2017 we completed installation of the tension leg platform and subsea equipment, finished drilling and completing three production wells, and received regulatory approval for production operations at the end of the year.  In January 2018, we commenced production from the field, which is expected to ramp up over the next 18 months as we continue a drilling program of three additional production wells and four water injection wells.

Europe

Denmark:

In 2017, we announced that we plan to commence a process to sell our interest in the Hess operated offshore South Arne Field (Hess 62%) in 2018.  Total proved reserves for Denmark were 64 million boe at December 31, 2017.

Africa

Ghana:

At the Hess operated offshore Deepwater Tano/Cape Three Points license (Hess 50% license interest), management determined in the fourth quarter of 2017 that it would not develop the previously discovered fields

.  As a result, we recorded a charge of $280 million to write-off previously capitalized exploration wells and other lease costs.

See

Capitalized Exploratory Well Costs

in

Note 5, Property, Plant and Equipment,

and

Note 24, Subsequent Events

in the

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

.

Libya:

At the onshore Waha concession in Libya, which includes the Defa, Faregh, Gialo, North Gialo and Belhedan Fields (Hess 8%), production was shut-in by the operator for extended periods in 2016 and 2015 due to force majeure caused by civil unrest.  The national oil company of Libya lifted force majeure in September 2016 and production recommenced in October 2016.  Net production averaged approximately 10,000 boepd in 2017, 1,000 boepd in 2016, and zero in 2015.

Asia and Other

Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA)

:

At the Carigali Hess operated offshore Block A-18 in the Gulf of Thailand (

Hess 50%

),

no drilling is planned for 2018 as contracted volumes are expected to be met as a result of the booster compression project that came online in 2016.

Malaysia:

Our production in Malaysia comes from our interest in Block PM301 (Hess 50%), which is adjacent to and is unitized with Block A‑18 of the JDA and our 50% interest in Blocks PM302, PM325 and PM326B located in the North Malay Basin (NMB), offshore Peninsular Malaysia, where we operate a multi‑phase natural gas development project.  In July 2017, production of natural gas commenced from the full-field development and net production for 2017 averaged 66 mmcfd, with the planned plateau rate of 165 mmcfd being achieved in the fourth quarter.  In 2018, we plan to drill three production wells and progress development activities related to future phases.

Guyana:

At the Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited operated offshore Stabroek Block (Hess 30% participating interest),

the partners sanctioned the first phase of the Liza Field development in 2017.  This phase is expected to have a gross capital cost of approximately $3.2 billion for drilling and subsea infrastructure, of which we expect to incur $250 million net in 2018, with first production expected in March 2020.  The development plan includes a leased floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) vessel that will have the capacity to process up to 120,000 barrels of oil per day from 17 wells, including eight producers, six water injectors and three gas injectors.  At December 31, 2017, we have

proved reserves of 45 million boe, related to Liza Phase 1.

An application for an environmental permit to develop the second phase at Liza has been submitted.  The concept for Phase 2 involves the use of a larger FPSO vessel and subsea systems that would have a production capacity of approximately 220,000 bopd, with first production expected by mid-2022.  Planning is also underway for a third phase of development with an FPSO vessel at the Payara Field with first production planned for 2023 or 2024.  The size of the third ship will depend upon the results of future exploration and appraisal drilling.


In 2017, the following wells were completed on the Stabroek Block

(in chronological order):

Payara-1:

The well, located approximately 10 miles northwest of the Liza discovery, encountered 95 feet of high-quality, oil bearing sandstone reservoirs.

Snoek-1

: The well encountered more than 82 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoirs and is located approximately 5 miles southeast of the Liza-1 oil discovery.

Liza-4:

The well encountered more than 197 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoirs.

Payara-2

: The well encountered 59 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone reservoirs and confirmed a second large oil field in addition to the Liza Field.  The well is located approximately 12 miles northwest from the Liza Phase 1 project.

Turbot-1:

The well encountered a reservoir of 75 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing sandstone in the primary objective.  The well is located approximately 30 miles to the southeast of the Liza Phase 1 project.

In January 2018, the operator announced a sixth oil discovery at the Ranger prospect.  The Ranger-1 well encountered approximately 230 feet of high-quality, oil-bearing carbonate reservoir, and is located approximately 60 miles to the northwest of the Liza Field.  In 2018, additional drilling is planned, including appraisal of the Liza, Turbot and Ranger discoveries, as well as a wider exploration program that will target additional prospects and play types on the block.  Drilling of the Pacora prospect commenced in January.

Suriname

:

We hold a 33% non-operated participating interest in t

he Block 42 contract area, offshore Suriname.  The operator, Kosmos Energy Ltd., completed a 6,500-square kilometer 3D seismic shoot in 2017 and expects to drill its first exploration well in 2018.  In 2017, we entered into a 33% non-operated participating interest in the Block 59 contract area, offshore Suriname, where the operator, ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Suriname B.V., is planning a seismic program in 2018.

Canada:

We hold a 50% participating interest in four exploration licenses offshore Nova Scotia.  In 2018, the operator, BP Canada, plans to drill its first exploration well.  In addition, in 2017 we were granted a 25% participating interest in three BP Canada operated exploration licenses offshore Newfoundland.

Sales Commitments

We have certain long-term contracts with fixed minimum sales volume commitments for natural gas and natural gas liquids production.  At the JDA in the Gulf of Thailand, we have annual minimum net sales commitments of approximately 85 billion cubic feet of natural gas per year through 2025 and approximately 40 billion cubic feet per year in 2026 and 2027.  At the North Malay Basin development project offshore Malaysia, we have annual net sales commitments of approximately 55 billion cubic feet per year through 2024.  Our estimated total volume of production subject to these sales commitments is approximately 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.  We also have natural gas liquids minimum delivery commitments, primarily in the Bakken through 2023, of approximately 10 million barrels per year, or approximately 60 million barrels over the remaining life of the contracts.

We have not experienced any significant constraints in satisfying the committed quantities required by our sales commitments, and we anticipate being able to meet future requirements from available proved and probable reserves and projected third-party supply.


Selling Prices and Production Costs

The following table presents our average selling prices and average production costs:

(a)

Includes inter‑company transfers valued at approximate market prices and, primarily onshore U.S., is adjusted for certain processing and distribution fees.

(b)

In 2017, we sold our assets in Norway.  See Note 2, Dispositions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  The average selling prices in Norway for 2016 were $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (including hedging), $43.32 per barrel for crude oil (excluding hedging), $19.48 per barrel for natural gas liquids and $5.22 per mcf for natural gas (2015: $54.89, $52.15, $24.59 and $8.58, respectively).  The average production (lifting) costs in Norway were $24.70 per barrel of oil equivalent in 2016 (2015: $25.81).

(c)

Production (lifting) costs consist of amounts incurred to operate and maintain our producing oil and gas wells, related equipment and facilities and transportation costs, including Midstream tariff expense.  Lifting costs do not include costs of finding and developing proved oil and gas reserves, production and severance taxes, or the costs of related general and administrative expenses, interest expense and income taxes.

(d)

Includes Midstream tariff expense of $11.10 per boe in 2017 (2016: $9.24 per boe; 2015: $8.52 per boe).


Gross and Net Undeveloped Acreage

At December 31, 2017, gross and net undeveloped acreage amounted to:

(a)

Includes acreage held under production sharing contracts.

(b)

At December 31, 2017, licenses covering approximately 2% of our net undeveloped acreage held are scheduled to expire during the next three years pending the results of exploration activities.

Gross and Net Developed Acreage, and Productive Wells

At December 31, 2017 gross and net developed acreage and productive wells amounted to:

(a)

Includes multiple completion wells (wells

producing from different formations in the same bore

hole) totaling 106 gross wells and 62 net

wells.

Exploratory and Development Wells

Net exploratory and net development wells completed during the years ended December 31 were:

(a)

In 2017, we expensed seven wells in our Deepwater Tano/Cape Three Points block, offshore Ghana, which were drilled in prior years.  See Note 5, Property, Plant and Equipment in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

In 2016, we expensed 18 wells relating to our Equus natural gas project, offshore Australia, which were drilled in prior years.

Number of Wells in the Process of Being Drilled

At December 31, 2017, the number of wells in the process of drilling amounted to:


Midstream

The Midstream operating segment provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating natural gas liquids (NGLs); gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and NGLs; and storing and terminaling propane, primarily in the Bakken and Three Forks Shale plays in the Williston Basin area of North Dakota.

In July 2015, we sold a 50% interest in Hess Infrastructure Partners LP (HIP) to Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) for net cash consideration of approximately $2.6 billion.

In April 2017, Hess Midstream Partners LP (the “Partnership”), sold 16,997,000 common units representing limited partner interests at a price of $23 per unit in an initial public offering (IPO) for net proceeds of $365.5 million, of which $350 million was distributed equally to Hess Corporation and GIP.

At December 31, 2017, Hess Corporation and GIP each owned a direct 33.75% limited partner interest in the Partnership and a 50% indirect ownership interest through HIP in the Partnership’s general partner, which has a 2% economic interest in the Partnership plus incentive distribution rights.  The public unit holders own a 30.5% limited partner interest in the Partnership.  In turn, the Partnership owns an approximate 20% controlling interest in the operating companies that comprise our midstream joint venture, while HIP, the 50/50 joint venture between Hess Corporation and GIP, owns the remaining 80%.

The Partnership, and HIP and its affiliates primarily comprise the Midstream operating segment, which currently generates substantially all of its revenues under long-term, fee-based agreements with our E&P operating segment but intends to pursue additional throughput volumes from third-parties in the Williston Basin area.  We operate the Midstream assets under various operational and administrative services agreements.

Beginning January 1, 2017, the Midstream segment included our interest in a Permian gas plant in West Texas and related

CO


assets, and water handling assets in North Dakota as a result of organizational changes to the management of those assets.  In the third quarter of 2017, we completed the sale of our assets in the Permian Basin, including the gas plant in West Texas and related CO


assets.  The water assets are wholly-owned by the Corporation and are not included in our HIP joint venture.

At December 31, 2017, Midstream assets include the following:

•

Natural Gas Gathering and Compression:

A natural gas gathering and compression system located primarily in McKenzie, Williams and Mountrail Counties, North Dakota connecting Hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the Tioga Gas Plant and third-party pipeline facilities.  This gathering system consists of approximately 1,200 miles of high and low pressure natural gas and NGL gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to 345 mmcfd, including an aggregate compression capacity of 174 mmcfd.  The system also includes the Hawkeye Gas Facility, which contributes 50 mmcfd of the system’s current compression capacity.

•

Crude Oil Gathering:

A crude oil gathering system located primarily in McKenzie, Williams and Mountrail Counties, North Dakota, connecting Hess and third-party owned or operated wells to the Ramberg Terminal Facility, the Tioga Rail Terminal and the Johnson’s Corner Header System.  The crude oil gathering system consists of approximately 365 miles of crude oil gathering pipelines with a current capacity of up to 161,000 bopd.  The system also includes the Hawkeye Oil Facility, which contributes 76,000 bopd of the system’s current capacity.

•

Tioga Gas Plant:

A natural gas processing and fractionation plant located in Tioga, North Dakota, with a current processing capacity of 250 mmcfd and fractionation capacity of 60,000 boepd.

•

Mentor Storage Terminal:

A propane storage cavern and rail and truck loading and unloading facility located in Mentor, Minnesota, with approximately 328,000 boe of working storage capacity.

•

Ramberg Terminal Facility:

A crude oil pipeline and truck receipt terminal located in Williams County, North Dakota that is capable of delivering up to 282,000 bopd of crude oil into an interconnecting pipeline for transportation to the Tioga Rail Terminal and to multiple third-party pipelines and storage facilities.

•

Tioga Rail Terminal:

A 140,000 bopd crude oil and 30,000 boepd NGL rail loading terminal in Tioga, North Dakota that is connected to the Tioga Gas Plant, the Ramberg Terminal Facility and our crude oil gathering system.

•

Crude Oil Rail Cars:

A total of 550 crude oil rail cars, which we operate as unit trains consisting of approximately 100 to 110 crude oil rail cars.  These crude oil rail cars have been constructed to DOT-117 standards.  In addition, at December 31, 2017, HIP also has

105 older specification crude oil rail cars.  In 2016, we recorded an impairment charge against these older specification rail cars, which are not in service.  See

Note 3, Impairment

in

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

.

•

Johnson’s Corner Header System:

A crude oil pipeline header system located in McKenzie County, North Dakota that receives crude oil by pipeline from Hess and third-parties and delivers crude oil to third-party interstate pipeline systems.  The facility has a delivery capacity of approximately 100,000 bopd of crude oil.


In 2018, the Partnership announced the formation of a 50/50 joint venture with Targa Resources Corp. to construct a new 200 mmcfd gas processing plant south of the Missouri River i

n McKenzie County, North Dakota, which is expected to be completed in the second half of 2018.  The plant is expected to increase the Midstream segment’s total processing capacity in the Bakken to 350 mmcfd.  As part of this project, HIP will construct new

pipeline infrastructure to gather volumes for the new plant.  The expected combined project costs attributable to our Midstream segment is $175 million.

Competition and Market Conditions

See

Item 1A. Risk Factors

for a discussion of competition and market conditions.

Other Items

Emergency Preparedness and Response Plans and Procedures

We have in place a series of business and asset-specific emergency preparedness, response and business continuity plans that detail procedures for rapid and effective emergency response and environmental mitigation activities.  These plans are risk appropriate and are maintained, reviewed and updated as necessary to confirm their accuracy and suitability.  Where appropriate, they are also reviewed and approved by the relevant host government authorities.

Responder training and drills are routinely held worldwide to assess and continually improve the effectiveness of our plans.  Our contractors, service providers, representatives from government agencies and, where applicable, joint venture partners participate in the drills to help ensure that emergency procedures are comprehensive and can be effectively implemented.

To complement internal capabilities and to help ensure coverage for our global operations, we maintain membership contracts with a network of local, regional and global oil spill response and emergency response organizations.  At the regional and global level, these organizations include Clean Gulf Associates (CGA), Marine Spill Response Corporation (MSRC), Marine Well Containment Company (MWCC), Wild Well Control (WWC), Subsea Well Intervention Service (SWIS) and Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL).  CGA and MSRC are domestic spill response organizations and MWCC provides the equipment and personnel to contain underwater well control incidents in the Gulf of Mexico.  WWC provides firefighting, well control and engineering services globally.  OSRL is a global response organization and is available, when needed, to assist us anywhere in the world.  In addition to owning response assets in their own right, the organization maintains business relationships that provide immediate access to additional critical response support services if required.  These owned response assets include nearly 300 recovery and storage vessels and barges, more than 250 skimmers, over 600,000 feet of boom, 9 capping stacks and significant quantities of dispersants and other ancillary equipment, including aircraft.  In addition to external well control and oil spill response support, we have contracts with wildlife, environmental, meteorology, incident management, medical and security resources.  If we were to engage these organizations to obtain additional critical response support services, we would fund such services and seek reimbursement under our insurance coverage, as described below.  In certain circumstances, we pursue and enter into mutual aid agreements with other companies and government cooperatives to receive and provide oil spill response equipment and personnel support.  We maintain close associations with emergency response organizations through our representation on the Executive Committees of CGA and MSRC, as well as the Board of Directors of OSRL.

We continue to participate in a number of industry-wide task forces that are studying better ways to assess the risk of and prevent onshore and offshore incidents, access and control blowouts in subsea environments, and improve containment and recovery methods.  The task forces are working closely with the oil and gas industry and international government agencies to implement improvements and increase the effectiveness of oil spill prevention, preparedness, response and recovery processes.

Insurance Coverage and Indemnification

We maintain insurance coverage that includes coverage for physical damage to our property, third-party liability, workers’ compensation and employers’ liability, general liability, sudden and accidental pollution and other coverage.  This insurance coverage is subject to deductibles, exclusions and limitations and there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages.

The amount of insurance covering physical damage to our property and liability related to negative environmental effects resulting from a sudden and accidental pollution event, excluding Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage for which we are self‑insured, varies by asset, based on the asset's estimated replacement value or the estimated maximum loss.  In the case of a catastrophic event, first party coverage consists of two tiers of insurance.  The first $400 million of coverage is provided through an industry mutual insurance group.  Above this $400 million threshold, insurance is carried which ranges in value


up to $1.11 billion in total, depending on the asset coverage level, as described above.  The insurance programs covering physical damage to our property exclude business interruption protection for our E&P operations.  Additionally, we

carry insurance that provides third-party coverage for general liability, and sudden and accidental pollution, up to $1.08 billion, which coverage under a standard joint operating arrangement would be reduced to our participating interest.

Our insurance policies renew at various dates each year.  Future insurance coverage could increase in cost and may include higher deductibles or retentions, or additional exclusions or limitations.  In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable in the future or unavailable on terms that are deemed economically acceptable.

Generally, our drilling contracts (and most of our other offshore services contracts) provide for a mutual hold harmless indemnity structure whereby each party to the contract (the Corporation and Contractor) indemnifies the other party for injuries or damages to their personnel and property (and, often, those of its contractors/subcontractors) regardless of fault.  Variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party.  Third‑party claims, on the other hand, are generally allocated on a fault basis.

We are customarily responsible for, and indemnify the Contractor against, all claims including those from third‑parties, to the extent attributable to pollution or contamination by substances originating from our reservoirs or other property and the Contractor is responsible for and indemnifies us for all claims attributable to pollution emanating from the Contractor’s property.  Variations may include indemnity exclusions to the extent a claim is attributable to the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of a party.  Additionally, we are generally liable for all of our own losses and most third‑party claims associated with catastrophic losses such as damage to reservoirs, blowouts, cratering and loss of hole, regardless of cause, although exceptions for losses attributable to gross negligence and/or willful misconduct do exist.  Lastly some offshore services contracts include overall limitations of the Contractor’s liability equal to a fixed negotiated amount.  Variations may include exclusions of all contractual indemnities from the liability cap.

Under a standard joint operating agreement (JOA), each party is liable for all claims arising under the JOA, to the extent of its participating interest (operator or non-operator).  Variations include indemnity exclusions when the claim is based upon the gross negligence and/or willful misconduct of the operator, in which case the operator is solely liable.  The parties to the JOA may continue to be jointly and severally liable for claims made by third-parties in some jurisdictions.  Further, under some production sharing contracts between a governmental entity and commercial parties, liability of the commercial parties to the government entity is joint and several.

Environmental

Compliance with various existing environmental and pollution control regulations imposed by federal, state, local and foreign governments is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations but increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general.  We spent approximately $15 million in 2017 for environmental remediation.  The level of other expenditures to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country environmental regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses.  For further discussion of environmental matters see

Environment, Health and Safety

in

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

.

Number of Employees

At December 31, 2017, we had 2,075 employees.  In January 2018, we eliminated approximately 300 of these positions.  See

Note 24, Subsequent Events

in

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

.

Website Access to Our Reports

We make available free of charge through our website at www.hess.com, our annual report on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q, current reports on Form 8‑K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this report.  Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, and the charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee of the Board of Directors are available on our website and are also available free of charge upon request to Investor Relations at our principal executive office.  We also file with the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) an annual certification that our Chief Executive Officer is unaware of any violation of the NYSE’s corporate governance standards.