
10-K


                             UNITED STATES
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                        Washington, D.C. 20549

       ---------------------------------------------------------

                               FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
|X|      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
              FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997
                                  OR
|_|    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
           FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM _______ TO _______
                     COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-22493

       ---------------------------------------------------------

                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             DELAWARE                           13-3668641
  (State or other jurisdiction of    (I.R.S. Employer Identification
  incorporation or organization)                   No.)

           IM LANGACHER
          P.O. BOX MT-100
  CH 8606 GREIFENSEE, SWITZERLAND
  (Address of principal executive               (Zip Code)
             offices)

                          011-41-1-944-22-11
         (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

       ---------------------------------------------------------

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                              Name of each
                                               exchange
        Title of each class               on which registered
        -------------------               -------------------
      Common Stock, $.01 par                 New York Stock
               value                           Exchange

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

       ---------------------------------------------------------

     Indicate by check mark whether the  registrant  (1) has filed all
reports  required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act of 1934 during the  preceding 12 months (or such shorter
period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
Yes  X     No
    ---   ---

     Indicate  by  check  mark  if  disclosure  of  delinquent  filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation  S-K (ss.  229.405 of this chapter)
is not contained  herein,  and will not be  contained,  to the best of
Registrant's  knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by  reference  in  Part  III of  this  Form  10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.[ ]

     As  of  March  5,  1998  there  were  38,336,015  shares  of  the
Registrant's Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding. The
aggregate  market  value  of  the  shares  of  common  stock  held  by
non-affiliates  of the Registrant  (based on the closing price for the
Common  Stock on the New York  Stock  Exchange  on March 5,  1998) was
approximately  $738,502,073.  For purposes of this computation, shares
held by  affiliates  and by  directors  of the  Registrant  have  been
excluded.  Such exclusion of shares held by directors is not intended,
nor shall it be  deemed,  to be an  admission  that such  persons  are
affiliates of the Registrant.

                  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

              DOCUMENT                        PART OF FORM 10-K
      PROXY STATEMENT FOR 1998             INTO WHICH INCORPORATED
   ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS                  PART III

       ---------------------------------------------------------

                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                      ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
              FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

                                                                 PAGE
PART I

ITEM 1.
        BUSINESS....................................................1

ITEM 2.
        PROPERTIES.................................................13

ITEM 3. LEGAL
        PROCEEDINGS................................................14

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
        HOLDERS....................................................14

PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
        RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS................................15

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL
        DATA.......................................................17

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
        FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS..............19

ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET
        RISK.......................................................29

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA................29

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
        ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.....................29

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT ........30

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.....................................31

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
         MANAGEMENT.................................................32

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.............32

PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
         FORM 8-K...................................................33

SIGNATURES..........................................................34


          The  "Company"  or  "Mettler-Toledo"  as used  herein  means
Mettler-Toledo International Inc. and its subsidiaries.

          This  Annual  Report on Form 10-K  contains  forward-looking
statements.  These  statements  are  subject  to a number of risks and
uncertainties,  certain of which are beyond the Company's control. See
"Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of  Financial  Condition  and
Results of  Operations"  and Exhibit 99.1  hereto.  Mettler-Toledo(R),
Mettler(R),    Ingold(R),   Garvens(R),   Ohaus(R),   DigiTol(R)   and
Safeline(R)   are   registered   trademarks   of   the   Company   and
Brickstone(TM),    Spider(TM),    Mentor    SC(TM),    MultiRange(TM),
TRUCKMATE(TM),  Signature(TM) and Powerphase(TM) are trademarks of the
Company.

                              PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

          Mettler-Toledo  is a leading  global  supplier of  precision
instruments.  The  Company is the  world's  largest  manufacturer  and
marketer of weighing instruments for use in laboratory, industrial and
food retailing applications. In addition, the Company holds one of the
top three market positions in several related  analytical  instruments
such as titrators,  thermal analysis systems, pH meters, automatic lab
reactors and electrodes. Through its recent acquisition (the "Safeline
Acquisition")  of Safeline Limited  ("Safeline"),  the Company is also
the world's  largest  manufacturer  and  marketer  of metal  detection
systems for  companies  that  produce  and  package  goods in the food
processing, pharmaceutical, cosmetics, chemicals and other industries.
The  Company  focuses on high  value-added  segments of its markets by
providing  innovative  instruments,  by integrating  these instruments
into application-specific solutions for customers, and by facilitating
the processing of data gathered by its instruments and the transfer of
this data to customers' management information systems. Mettler-Toledo
services a worldwide  customer  base through its own sales and service
organization and has a global  manufacturing  presence in Europe,  the
United States and Asia. The Company generated 1997 net sales of $878.4
million  which  were  derived  45% in  Europe,  42% in North and South
America and 13% in Asia and other markets.  For  additional  financial
information  by geographic  segment,  see Note 16 to the  Consolidated
Financial  Statements  included  elsewhere  in  this  Form  10-K  (the
"Consolidated Financial Statements").

          The Company  believes that in 1997 the global market for the
Company's products and services was approximately $6.0 billion. In the
weighing  instruments  market,  Mettler-Toledo  is the only company to
offer   products  for   laboratory,   industrial  and  food  retailing
applications  throughout the world and believes that it holds a market
share more than two times greater than that of its nearest competitor.
The Company  believes  that in 1997 it had an  approximate  40% market
share of the global  market for  laboratory  balances,  including  the
largest  market  share in each of Europe,  the United  States and Asia
(excluding  Japan),  and the  number  two  position  in Japan.  In the
industrial and food retailing market,  the Company believes it has the
largest market share in Europe and in the United States.  In Asia, the
Company  has  a  substantial,  rapidly  growing  industrial  and  food
retailing business supported by its established manufacturing presence
in China.  The Company also holds one of the top three  global  market
positions in several analytical instruments such as titrators, thermal
analysis  systems,  electrodes,  pH meters and automatic lab reactors.
The Company  recently  enhanced  its leading  positions  in  precision
instruments  through the addition of Safeline's  market  leading metal
detection  products,  which  can  be  used  in  conjunction  with  the
Company's  checkweighing  instruments for important quality and safety
checks in the food processing,  pharmaceutical,  cosmetics,  chemicals
and other  industries.  The Company  attributes  its worldwide  market
leadership  position  to its  brand  recognition,  its  leadership  in
technological innovation,  its comprehensive product range, its global
sales and service  organization,  its large installed base of weighing
instruments and the diversity of its revenue base.

HISTORY

          The  Company  traces  its  roots  to  the  invention  of the
single-pan  analytical balance by Dr. Erhard Mettler and the formation
of Mettler  Instruments AG  ("Mettler") in 1945.  During the 1970s and
1980s,  Mettler expanded from laboratory  balances into industrial and
food retailing products,  and it introduced the first fully electronic
precision  balance in 1973. The Toledo Scale Company  ("Toledo Scale")
was  founded in 1901 and  developed a leading  market  position in the
industrial  weighing  market in the United  States.  During the 1970s,
Toledo Scale  expanded into the food retailing  market.  Following the
1989  acquisition of Toledo Scale by Mettler,  the name of the Company
was changed to Mettler-Toledo to reflect the combined strengths of the
two  companies and to capitalize  on their  historic  reputations  for
quality  and  innovation.  During the past 15 years,  the  Company has
grown  through  other  acquisitions  that  complemented  the Company's
existing  geographic  markets and products.  In 1986, Mettler acquired
the  Ingold  Group of  companies,  manufacturers  of  electrodes,  and
Garvens  Kontrollwaagen AG, a maker of dynamic  checkweighers.  Toledo
Scale acquired  Hi-Speed  Checkweigher Co., Inc. in 1981. In 1990, the
Company  acquired  Ohaus  Corporation,  a  manufacturer  of laboratory
balances.

          The  Company was  incorporated  in  December  1991,  and was
recapitalized  in connection with the October 15, 1996  acquisition of
the Mettler-Toledo  Group from Ciba-Geigy AG ("Ciba") in a transaction
(the  "Acquisition")  sponsored by management  and AEA Investors  Inc.
("AEA Investors"). See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
included   herein  for  further   information   with  respect  to  the
Acquisition.  On May 30, 1997,  the Company  purchased  Safeline,  the
world's leading supplier of metal detection systems for companies that
produce  and  package  goods in the food  processing,  pharmaceutical,
cosmetics, chemicals and other industries.

          In November 1997,  the Company  completed its initial public
offering of shares of its Common Stock (the "Offering") at a price per
share  equal  to  $14.00.  The  Offering,  in which  7,666,667  shares
(including the underwriters'  over-allotment option) were sold, raised
net  proceeds,   after  underwriters'   commission  and  expenses,  of
approximately  $97.3  million.  The net  proceeds  from the  Offering,
together  with  additional   borrowings  under  the  Company's  Credit
Agreement,  were used to repurchase the Company's Senior  Subordinated
Notes and to pay related premiums and fees and expenses.

PRODUCTS

      Laboratory

          The Company  manufactures  and  markets a complete  range of
laboratory balances, as well as other selected laboratory  measurement
instruments,  such as titrators, thermal analysis systems, electrodes,
pH meters and automatic lab reactors,  for laboratory  applications in
research and development, quality assurance, production and education.
Laboratory  products  accounted for approximately 38% of the Company's
net  sales  in  1997  (including   revenues  from  related  after-sale
service). The Company believes that it has an approximate 40% share of
the global market for  laboratory  balances and is among the top three
producers   worldwide  of   titrators,   thermal   analysis   systems,
electrodes, pH meters and automatic lab reactors. The Company believes
it has the leading  market  share for  laboratory  balances in each of
Europe,  the United States and Asia  (excluding  Japan) and the number
two position in Japan.

          Balances.  The balance is the most common piece of equipment
in the  laboratory.  The  Company  believes  that it sells the highest
performance laboratory balances available on the market, with weighing
ranges up to 32 kilograms and down to one ten-millionth of a gram. The
Mettler-Toledo name is identified worldwide with accuracy, reliability
and  innovation.  The Company's  brand name is so well recognized that
laboratory  balances are often generically  referred to as "Mettlers."
This  reputation,  in  management's  judgment,  constitutes one of the
Company's principal competitive strengths.

          In order to cover a wide range of  customer  needs and price
points, Mettler-Toledo markets precision balances,  semimicrobalances,
microbalances and  ultramicrobalances in three principal product tiers
offering different levels of functionality.  High-end balances provide
maximum automation of calibration,  application support and additional
functions.  Mid-level  balances  provide  a  more  limited  but  still
extensive set of automated features and software  applications,  while
basic level balances  provide simple  operations and a limited feature
set. The Company also manufactures mass comparators, which are used by
weights and measures  regulators as well as laboratories to ensure the
accuracy of reference weights.  Due to the wide range of functions and
features offered by the Company's products, prices vary significantly.
A typical  mid-range  precision  balance  is  priced at  approximately
$2,500 and a typical microbalance is priced at approximately $14,000.

          The Company  regularly  introduces  new features and updated
models in its lines of balances. For example, the Company's DeltaRange
models permit  weighing of light and heavy samples on the same balance
without the need for difficult  adjustments,  a function  particularly
useful in  dispensing  and formula  weighing.  High-end  balances  are
equipped with fully automatic calibration  technology.  These balances
are carefully calibrated many times in controlled  environments,  with
the results of the calibrations  incorporated into built-in  software,
so  that   adjustments  to  ambient   temperature   and  humidity  can
automatically  be made at any time. The Company also offers  universal
interfaces that offer simultaneous connection of up to five peripheral
devices.  The  customer  can then  interface  one  balance  with,  for
example, a computer for further processing of weighing data, a printer
for  automatically  printing  results and a bar-code reader for sample
identification.

          In addition to Mettler-Toledo  branded products, the Company
also  manufactures  and sells  balances  under the brand name "Ohaus."
Ohaus branded  products  include  mechanical  balances and  electronic
balances  for the  educational  market  and  other  markets  in  which
customers are interested in lower cost, a more limited set of features
and less comprehensive support and service.

          Titrators.  Titrators  measure the chemical  composition  of
samples.  The Company's high-end  titrators are multi-tasking  models,
which can perform two determinations simultaneously.  They permit high
sample  throughputs  and  have  extensive  expansion   capability  and
flexibility in  calculations,  functions and  parameters.  Lower-range
models  permit  common  determinations  to be stored in a database for
frequent  use.  Titrators  are used  heavily in the food and  beverage
industry. A typical titrator is priced at approximately $12,000.

          Thermal Analysis  Systems.  Thermal analysis systems measure
different  properties,  such as weight,  dimension and energy flow, at
varying temperatures.  The Company's thermal analysis products include
full  computer  integration  and a significant  amount of  proprietary
software.  Thermal analysis systems are used primarily in the plastics
and polymer industries. A typical thermal analysis system is priced at
approximately $50,000.

          pH  Meters.  A pH meter  measures  acidity  in a  laboratory
sample and is the second most widely used  measurement  instrument  in
the laboratory,  after the balance.  The Company  manufactures desktop
models and portable  models.  Desktop models are  microprocessor-based
instruments,  offering a wide range of  features  and  self-diagnostic
functions.  Portable models are waterproof,  ultrasonically welded and
ergonomically  designed,  and permit  later  downloading  of data to a
computer or printer  using an interface  kit and custom  software.  pH
meters are used in a wide range of  industries.  A typical pH meter is
priced at approximately $1,200.

          Automatic Lab Reactors and Reaction Calorimeters.  Automatic
lab reactors and reaction  calorimeters are used to simulate an entire
chemical  manufacturing process in the laboratory before proceeding to
production,  in order to ensure  the  safety  and  feasibility  of the
process. The Company's products are fully computer-integrated,  with a
significant  software  component,  and offer wide  flexibility  in the
structuring  of  experimental  processes.  Automatic  lab reactors and
reaction   calorimeters   are  typically  used  in  the  chemical  and
pharmaceutical   industries.  A  typical  lab  reactor  is  priced  at
approximately $140,000.

          Electrodes. The Company manufactures electrodes for use in a
variety of laboratory  instruments and in-line  process  applications.
Laboratory  electrodes  are  consumable  goods  used in pH meters  and
titrators,  which may be  replaced  many times  during the life of the
instrument.  In-line process electrodes are used to monitor production
processes,  for example,  in the beverage industry.  A typical in-line
process electrode is priced at approximately $160.

          Other   Instruments.   The   Company   sells   density   and
refractometry  instruments,  which measure chemical  concentrations in
solutions.  These  instruments  are sourced  through a marketing joint
venture  with a  third-party  manufacturer,  but are  sold  under  the
Mettler-Toledo  brand name. In addition,  the Company manufactures and
sells  moisture  analyzers,  which  precisely  determine  the moisture
content  of a sample  by  utilizing  an  infrared  dryer to  evaporate
moisture.

      Industrial and Food Retailing

          Weighing   instruments  are  among  the  most  broadly  used
measurement  devices in industry  and food  retailing.  The  Company's
industrial and food retailing  weighing and related  products  include
bench and floor scales for standard industrial applications, truck and
railcar scales for heavy industrial applications, checkweighers (which
determine   the  weight  of  goods  in   motion),   metal   detectors,
dimensioning   equipment   and  scales  for  use  in  food   retailing
establishments  and  specialized  software  systems for industrial and
perishable  goods  management  processes.  Increasingly,  many  of the
Company's   industrial  and  food  retailing  products  can  integrate
weighing  data into process  controls  and  information  systems.  The
Company's  industrial  and food  retailing  products  are also sold to
original  equipment  manufacturers  ("OEMs"),  which  incorporate  the
Company's  products into larger  process  solutions and  comprehensive
food  retailing  checkout  systems.  At the same time,  the  Company's
products   themselves   include   significant   software  content  and
additional  functions  including  networking,  printing  and  labeling
capabilities  and the  incorporation  of other measuring  technologies
such as  dimensioning.  The Company  works with  customer  segments to
create  specific  solutions to their weighing  needs.  The Company has
also recently  worked closely with the leading  manufacturer of postal
meters to develop a new generation of postal metering systems.

          Industrial  and  food  retailing   products   accounted  for
approximately  62% of the  Company's  net  sales  in  1997  (including
revenues from related after-sale  service).  The Company believes that
it has the largest  market share in the  industrial and food retailing
market  in each of  Europe  and in the  United  States.  In Asia,  the
Company  has  a  substantial,  rapidly  growing  industrial  and  food
retailing business supported by an established  manufacturing presence
in China. The Company believes that it is the only company with a true
global  presence  across   industrial  and  food  retailing   weighing
applications.

          Standard Industrial Products.  The Company offers a complete
line of standard  industrial  scales,  such as bench  scales and floor
scales,  for  weighing  loads  from a few  grams to  loads of  several
thousand kilograms in applications ranging from measuring materials in
chemical  production  to weighing  mail and  packages.  Product  lines
include the  "Spider"  range of scales,  often used in  receiving  and
shipping  departments in counting  applications;  "TrimWeigh"  scales,
which determine whether an item falls within a specified weight range,
and are used primarily in the food industry;  "Mentor SC" scales,  for
counting  parts;  and  precision  scales  for  formulating  and mixing
ingredients.  The Company's "MultiRange" products include standardized
software  which uses the  weight  data  obtained  to  calculate  other
parameters,  such as price or number of pieces.  The modular design of
these products  facilitates the integration of the Company's  weighing
equipment into a computer  system  performing  other  functions,  like
inventory control or batch management.  Prices vary significantly with
the size and functions of the scale,  generally ranging from $1,000 to
$20,000.

          Heavy  Industrial  Products.  The  Company's  primary  heavy
industrial  products are scales for weighing trucks or railcars (i.e.,
weighing bulk goods as they enter a factory or at a toll station). The
Company's  truck scales,  such as the "DigiTol  TRUCKMATE,"  generally
have  digital  load  cells,  which  offer  significant  advantages  in
serviceability  over analog load cells.  Heavy  industrial  scales are
capable  of  measuring  weights  up to 500  tons and  permit  accurate
weighing  under  extreme  environmental  conditions.  The Company also
offers  advanced  computer  software  that can be used  with its heavy
industrial scales to permit a broad range of applications. Truck scale
prices generally range from $20,000 to $50,000.

          Dynamic  Checkweighing.  The  Company  offers  solutions  to
checkweighing  requirements  in the food  processing,  pharmaceutical,
chemicals and cosmetic industries,  where accurate filling of packages
is  required,   and  in  the   transportation   and  package  delivery
industries,  where  tariffs are levied  based on weight.  Customizable
software   applications   utilize   the   information   generated   by
checkweighing   hardware  to  find  production  flaws,  packaging  and
labeling  errors and nonuniform  products,  as well as to sort rejects
and record the results.  Mettler-Toledo  checkweighing  equipment  can
accurately determine weight in dynamic applications at speeds of up to
several  hundred units per minute.  Checkweighers  generally  range in
price from $8,000 to $40,000.

          Metal Detection Systems. Metal detection systems control the
removal of product that is identified as  contaminated by metal during
the  manufacturing  process  in the food  processing,  pharmaceutical,
cosmetics,  chemicals and other industries.  Metal detectors therefore
provide    manufacturers   with   vital   protection   against   metal
contamination  arising from their own production processes or from use
of  contaminated  raw  materials.  Metal  detectors  are most commonly
utilized in conjunction with checkweighers as components of integrated
packaging  lines  in the food  processing,  pharmaceutical  and  other
industries.  Prices for metal detection  systems  generally range from
$5,000 to $20,000.

          Dimensioning  Equipment.  The  Company  recently  introduced
automated  dimensioning  equipment  that is utilized  in the  shipping
industry to measure package volumes.  These products employ a patented
Parallel Infrared Laser Array ("PILAR")  technology and are integrated
with industrial scales to combine volume-based and weight-based tariff
calculations.  Prices  for  integrated  dimensioning/weighing  systems
range from $5,000 to $20,000.

          Food  Retailing  Products.  Supermarkets,  hypermarkets  and
other  food  retail  establishments  make  use  of  multiple  weighing
applications  for the handling of  perishable  goods from  backroom to
checkout counter. For example, perishable goods are weighed on arrival
to  determine  payment  to  suppliers  and  some of  these  goods  are
repackaged,  priced and labeled for sale to customers. Other goods are
kept loose and selected by customers and either weighed at the produce
or delicatessen counter or at the checkout counter.

          The  Company  offers  stand-alone  scales for basic  counter
weighing and pricing,  price finding, and printing.  In addition,  the
Company  offers  network  scales  and  software,  which can  integrate
backroom,  counter,  self-service  and  checkout  functions,  and  can
incorporate  weighing  data into a  supermarket's  overall  perishable
goods management  system.  Backroom  products include dynamic weighing
products, labeling and wrapping machines,  perishable goods management
and data processing  systems. In some countries in Europe, the Company
also sells slicing and mincing  equipment.  Prices for food  retailing
scales generally range from $800 to $5,000, but are often sold as part
of comprehensive weighing solutions.

          Systems. The Company's systems business consists of software
applications for drum filling in the food and chemical  industries and
batching  systems in the glass industry.  The software systems control
or modify the manufacturing process.

CUSTOMERS AND DISTRIBUTION

          The Company's business is geographically  diversified,  with
1997 net sales  derived 45% in Europe,  42% in North and South America
and 13% in Asia and other markets. The Company's customer base is also
diversified  by industry and by  individual  customer.  The  Company's
largest  single  customer  accounted for no more than 2.6% of 1997 net
sales.

      Laboratory

          Principal   customers  for   laboratory   products   include
chemical,   pharmaceutical  and  cosmetics  manufacturers;   food  and
beverage makers; the metals,  electronics,  plastics,  transportation,
          packaging,  logistics and rubber industries; the jewelry and
precious
metals trade; educational institutions; and government standards labs.
Balances and pH meters are the most widely used laboratory measurement
instruments and are found in virtually every laboratory  across a wide
range of industries. Other products have more specialized uses.

          The Company's  laboratory products are sold in more than 100
countries  through a worldwide  distribution  network.  The  Company's
extensive   direct   distribution   network  and  its  dealer  support
activities  enable the  Company to  maintain a  significant  degree of
control over the distribution of its products.  In markets where there
are strong  laboratory  distributors,  such as the United States,  the
Company  uses them as the  primary  marketing  channel  for lower- and
mid-price point products. This strategy allows the Company to leverage
the  strength  of both the  Mettler-Toledo  brand  and the  laboratory
distributors'   market   position  into  sales  of  other   laboratory
measurement instruments.  The Company provides its distributors with a
significant  amount of technical and sales support.  High-end products
are handled by the  Company's  own sales force.  There has been recent
consolidation  among  distributors in the United States market.  While
this   consolidation   could  adversely   affect  the  Company's  U.S.
distribution,  the Company  believes  its  leadership  position in the
market  gives it a  competitive  advantage  when dealing with its U.S.
distributors.  Asian  distribution is primarily through  distributors,
while  European   distribution  is  primarily  through  direct  sales.
European  and  Asian  distributors  are  generally   fragmented  on  a
country-by-country  basis.  The Company  negotiated  a transfer of the
laboratory  business in Japan from its former agent to a subsidiary of
the Company effective January 1, 1997. In addition,  the Company began
to  distribute  laboratory  products  directly in certain  other Asian
countries.

          Ohaus   branded   products  are   generally   positioned  in
alternative  distribution channels to those of Mettler-Toledo  branded
products. In this way, the Company is able to fill a greater number of
distribution   channels  and  increase  penetration  of  its  existing
markets.  Since the  acquisition  of Ohaus in 1990,  the  Company  has
expanded  the Ohaus brand  beyond its  historical  U.S.  focus.  Ohaus
branded products are sold exclusively through distributors.

      Industrial and Food Retailing

          Customers for  Mettler-Toledo  industrial  products  include
chemical   companies   (e.g.,   formulating,   filling   and   bagging
applications),   food   companies   (e.g.,   packaging   and   filling
applications), electronics and metal processing companies (e.g., piece
counting and logistical applications), pharmaceutical companies (e.g.,
formulating and filling applications), transportation companies (e.g.,
sorting, dimensioning and vehicle weighing applications) and auto body
paint shops,  which mix paint colors  based on weight.  The  Company's
products for these  industries  share weighing  technology,  and often
minor  modifications  of  existing  products  can make them useful for
applications  in a variety of industrial  processes.  The Company also
sells to OEMs  which  integrate  the  Company's  modules  into  larger
process control  applications,  or comprehensive  packaging lines. OEM
applications often include software content and technical support,  as
the Company's  modules must  communicate  with a wide variety of other
process modules and data management functions.  The Company's products
are also  purchased by  engineering  firms,  systems  integrators  and
vertical application software companies.

          Customers for metal  detection  systems are  typically  food
processing, pharmaceutical,  cosmetics and chemicals manufacturers who
must ensure that their products are free from  contamination  by metal
particles.  Selling  product  that is  contaminated  by metal can have
severe  consequences  for  these  companies,  resulting  in  potential
litigation  and  product  recalls.  Metal  detection  systems are most
commonly  utilized in conjunction with  checkweighers as components of
integrated  packaging lines as important safety checks before food and
other products are delivered to customers. Other applications of metal
detection  systems  include  pipeline  detectors  for  dairy and other
liquids,  gravity  fall  systems  for  grains  and  sugar  and  throat
detection systems for raw material monitoring.

          Customers for food retailing products include  supermarkets,
hypermarkets  and smaller  food  retailing  establishments.  The North
American and European markets include many large  supermarket  chains.
In most of the Company's markets, food retailing continues to shift to
supermarkets and hypermarkets from "mom and pop" grocery stores. While
supermarkets  and  hypermarkets   generally  buy  less  equipment  per
customer,  they tend to buy more  advanced  products that require more
electronic and software  content.  In emerging markets,  however,  the
highest growth is in basic scales.  As with industrial  products,  the
Company also sells food  retailing  products to OEMs for  inclusion in
more  comprehensive  checkout  systems.  For  example,  the  Company's
checkout scales are incorporated into  scanner-scales,  which can both
weigh  perishable  goods  and  also  read bar  codes  on other  items.
Scanner-scales  are in turn  integrated  with cash registers to form a
comprehensive checkout system.

          The Company's  industrial products are sold in more than 100
countries  and its food  retailing  products in 20  countries.  In the
industrial and food retailing market, the Company distributes directly
to customers (including OEMs) and through distributors.  In the United
States, direct sales slightly exceed distribution sales.  Distributors
are highly fragmented in the U.S. In Europe, direct sales predominate,
with  distributors  used  in  certain  cases.  As  in  its  laboratory
distribution,   the  Company  provides   significant  support  to  its
distributors.

SALES AND SERVICE

      Market Organizations

          The  Company  has  over  30  geographically-focused   market
organizations  ("MOs") around the world that are  responsible  for all
aspects  of the  Company's  sales  and  service.  The  MOs  are  local
marketing  and  service  organizations   designed  to  maintain  close
relationships  with  the  Company's  customer  base.  Each  MO has the
flexibility to adapt its marketing and service  efforts to account for
different cultural and economic conditions. MOs also work closely with
the Company's producing  organizations  (described below) by providing
feedback on  manufacturing  and product  development  initiatives  and
relaying innovative product and application ideas.

          The  Company   has  the  only   global   sales  and  service
organization among weighing instruments manufacturers. At December 31,
1997, this organization  consisted of approximately 3,100 employees in
sales,    marketing   and   customer   service    (including   related
administration)   and  after-sales   technical  service.   This  field
organization  has the capability to provide service and support to the
Company's  customers and  distributors  in virtually all major markets
across the globe. Sales managers and  representatives  interact across
product lines and markets in order to serve customers that have a wide
range  of  weighing  needs,  such  as  pharmaceutical  companies  that
purchase  both  laboratory  and  industrial   products.   The  Company
classifies  customers  according to their  potential for sales and the
appropriate  distribution  channel is selected to service the customer
as  efficiently  as possible.  Larger  accounts tend to have dedicated
sales  representatives.   Other  representatives  are  specialized  by
product line. Sales  representatives call directly on end-users either
alone or,  in  regions  where  sales  are made  through  distributors,
jointly  with   distributors.   The  Company  utilizes  a  variety  of
advertising media, including trade journals, catalogs, exhibitions and
trade   shows.   The   Company   also   sponsors   seminars,   product
demonstrations and customer training  programs.  An extensive database
on markets helps the Company to gauge growth opportunities, target its
message  to  appropriate   customer  groups  and  monitor  competitive
developments.

      After-Sales Service

          The Company employs service technicians who provide contract
and repair  services in all countries in which the Company's  products
are  sold.  Service  (representing  service  contracts,   repairs  and
replacement  parts) accounted for  approximately  16% of the Company's
total net sales in 1997 (service revenue is included in the laboratory
and  industrial  and food retailing  sales  percentages  given above).
Management believes that service is a key part of its product offering
and helps  significantly  in generating  repeat sales.  Moreover,  the
Company  believes that it has the largest  installed  base of weighing
instruments in the world. The close relationships and frequent contact
with  its  large   customer   base  provide  the  Company  with  sales
opportunities and innovative  product and application  ideas. A global
service  network also is an important  factor in the ability to expand
in emerging  markets.  Widespread  adoption of quality  laboratory and
manufacturing  standards and the privatization of weights and measures
certification  represent  favorable  trends for the Company's  service
business,  as they tend to  increase  demand for  on-site  calibration
services.

          The Company's  service contracts provide for repair services
within various  guaranteed  response times,  depending on the level of
service selected. Many contracts also include periodic calibration and
testing.  Contracts  are  generally  one  year in  length,  but may be
longer.  The Company's own employees  directly  provide all service on
the Company's products. If the service contract also includes products
of  other   manufacturers,   the  Company   will   generally   perform
calibration, testing and basic repairs directly, and contract out more
significant repair work. As application software becomes more complex,
the Company's service efforts  increasingly  include  installation and
customer training programs as well as product service.

          Warranties  on  Mettler-Toledo  products are  generally  one
year. Based on past experience,  the Company believes its reserves for
warranty claims are adequate.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT; MANUFACTURING

      Producing Organizations

          The  Company  is  organized   into  a  number  of  producing
organizations  ("POs"),  which are specialized centers responsible for
product development, research and manufacturing. At December 31, 1997,
POs included approximately 4,000 employees worldwide, and consisted of
product   development   teams  whose   members  are  from   marketing,
development, research, manufacturing,  engineering and purchasing. POs
also often seek customer  input to ensure that the products  developed
are tailored to market  needs.  The Company has organized POs in order
to reduce product development time, improve its customer focus, reduce
costs and maintain technological leadership.  The POs work together to
share ideas and best  practices.  Some  employees  are in both MOs and
POs. The Company is currently  implementing  a number of projects that
it believes will result in increased productivity and lower costs. For
example,  the Company is restructuring  the order and product delivery
process  in  Europe to  enable  the  Company  to  deliver  many of its
products to its  customers  directly from the  manufacturing  facility
within  several days,  which  minimizes the need to store  products in
decentralized warehouses. In addition, the Company is centralizing its
European spare parts inventory management system.

      Research and Product Development

          The Company closely integrates research and development with
marketing,  manufacturing  and  product  engineering.  The Company has
nearly 600  professionals  in  research  and  development  and product
engineering.  The Company's principal product  development  activities
involve   applications   improvements  to  provide  enhanced  customer
solutions,  systems  integration and product cost reduction.  However,
the  Company  also  actively   conducts  research  in  basic  weighing
technologies.  As part of its research and development activities, the
Company  has  frequent  contact  with  university  experts,   industry
professionals  and the governmental  agencies  responsible for weights
and measures, analytical instruments and metal detectors. In addition,
the Company's  in-house  development is complemented by technology and
product development alliances with customers and OEMs.

          The Company has been  spending an  increasing  proportion of
its research and development budget on software development.  Software
development for weighing  applications  includes  application-specific
software, as well as software utilized in sensor mechanisms, displays,
and  other  common  components,  which  can be  leveraged  across  the
Company's broad product lines.

          The Company spent $47.6 million on research and  development
in 1997,  $50.0 million in 1996 and $54.5  million in 1995  (excluding
research and development  purchased in connection with the Acquisition
and  the  Safeline  Acquisition).   Including  costs  associated  with
customer-specific  engineering projects, which are included in cost of
sales  for   financial   reporting   purposes,   the   Company   spent
approximately 5.7% of net sales on research and development in 1997.

      Manufacturing

          The Company's  manufacturing strategy is to produce directly
those components that require its specific  technical  competence,  or
for which  dependable,  high-quality  suppliers  cannot be found.  The
Company   contracts  out  the   manufacture  of  its  other  component
requirements.   Consequently,  much  of  the  Company's  manufacturing
capability consists of assembly of components sourced from others. The
Company  utilizes a wide range of suppliers and it believes its supply
arrangements  to be adequate.  From time to time the Company relies on
one supplier for all of its  requirements  of a particular  component,
but in such cases the Company believes  adequate  alternative  sources
would be available if necessary.  Supply  arrangements for electronics
are generally made globally.  For mechanical  components,  the Company
generally uses local sources to optimize materials flow.

          The Company's  manufacturing  operations  emphasize  product
quality. Most of its products require very strict tolerances and exact
specifications.  The Company  utilizes an  extensive  quality  control
system that is integrated into each step of the manufacturing process.
This integration  permits field service technicians to trace important
information   about  the  manufacture  of  a  particular  unit,  which
facilitates   repair   efforts   and   permits   fine-tuning   of  the
manufacturing process. Many of the Company's measuring instruments are
subjected to an extensive calibration process that allows the software
in the unit to automatically  adjust for the impact of temperature and
humidity.

          The Company has seven manufacturing plants in the U.S., four
in Switzerland,  two in Germany,  one in the U.K. and two in China, of
which one is a joint  venture in which the Company owns a 60% interest
and the other,  the Shanghai  facility,  was  completed  and commenced
production  of  laboratory  products  at the end of  1996.  Laboratory
products are produced  mainly in Switzerland and to a lesser extent in
the United  States  and China,  while  industrial  and food  retailing
products  are  produced in all five  countries.  The  Company's  metal
detectors  are  produced in the U.K.  The  Company  has  manufacturing
expertise in sensor technology,  precision  machining and electronics,
as well as strength in software development.  Furthermore, most of the
Company's   manufacturing    facilities   have   achieved   ISO   9001
certification.  The Company  believes  its  manufacturing  capacity is
sufficient to meet its present and currently anticipated needs.

      Backlog

          Manufacturing  turnaround  time  is  generally  sufficiently
short so as to permit the  Company to  manufacture  to fill orders for
most of its products, which helps to limit inventory costs. Backlog is
therefore  generally a function of requested  customer  delivery dates
and is typically no longer than one to two months.

EMPLOYEES

          As of December 31, 1997, the Company had approximately 6,700
employees  throughout  the world,  including more than 3,400 in Europe
and more than 2,500 in North and South  America,  and more than 800 in
Asia and other countries.  Management believes that its relations with
employees are good. The Company has not suffered any material employee
work  stoppage or strike in its worldwide  operations  during the last
five years.  Labor unions do not represent a meaningful  number of the
Company's employees

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

          The Company  holds more than 1,100  patents and  trademarks,
primarily in the United States, Switzerland, Germany and Japan and, to
a  lesser  extent,   in  China.  The  Company's   products   generally
incorporate a wide variety of technological innovations, many of which
are protected by patents and many of which are not. Moreover, products
are  generally  not  protected  as  a  whole  by  individual  patents.
Accordingly,  no one patent or group of related patents is material to
the Company's  business.  The Company also has numerous trademarks and
considers  the  Mettler-Toledo  name  and logo to be  material  to its
business.  The Company regularly protects against  infringement of its
intellectual property.

REGULATION

          The Company's  products are subject to regulatory  standards
and approvals by weights and measures  regulatory  authorities  in the
countries  in  which it  sells  its  products.  Weights  and  measures
regulation  has  been  harmonized   across  the  European  Union.  The
Company's food  processing and food retailing  products are subject to
regulation and approvals by relevant  governmental  agencies,  such as
the  United  States  Food and Drug  Administration.  Products  used in
hazardous  environments  may also be subject to special  requirements.
All of the Company's  electrical  components are subject to electrical
safety standards. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all
material respects with applicable regulations.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

          The  Company is subject  to various  environmental  laws and
regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those
relating to air  emissions,  wastewater  discharges,  the handling and
disposal  of  solid  and  hazardous  wastes  and  the  remediation  of
contamination  associated  with  the use  and  disposal  of  hazardous
substances.  The  Company  wholly  or partly  owns,  leases or holds a
direct or  indirect  equity  interest  in a number of  properties  and
manufacturing  facilities  around  the  world,  including  the  United
States,  Europe,  Canada,  Mexico,  Brazil,  Australia and China.  The
Company, like many of its competitors, has incurred, and will continue
to incur,  capital  and  operating  expenditures  and  other  costs in
complying with such laws and regulations in both the United States and
abroad.

          The  Company  is  currently  involved  in, or has  potential
liability with respect to, the  remediation of past  contamination  in
certain of its presently and formerly  owned and leased  facilities in
both the  United  States  and  abroad.  In  addition,  certain  of the
Company's  present and former facilities have or had been in operation
for many decades and,  over such time,  some of these  facilities  may
have used  substances or generated and disposed of wastes which are or
may be considered  hazardous.  It is possible that such sites, as well
as disposal sites owned by third parties to which the Company has sent
wastes,  may in the future be  identified  and  become the  subject of
remediation.  Accordingly, although the Company believes that it is in
substantial compliance with applicable environmental  requirements and
the  Company  to  date  has  not  incurred  material  expenditures  in
connection with environmental matters, it is possible that the Company
could become  subject to additional  environmental  liabilities in the
future that could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition or results of operations.

          The Company is involved in litigation concerning remediation
of hazardous  substances  at its  operating  facility in Landing,  New
Jersey.  On or about July 1988, an affiliate of Ciba ("AGP") purchased
100%   of   the   outstanding   stock   of   Metramatic    Corporation
("Metramatic"),  a manufacturer of checkweighing  equipment located in
Landing,  from GEI International  Corporation  ("GEI").  GEI agreed to
indemnify and hold harmless AGP for certain pre-closing  environmental
conditions,  including  those  resulting  in cleanup  responsibilities
required  by the New Jersey  Department  of  Environmental  Protection
("NJDEP")   pursuant   to  the  New   Jersey   Environmental   Cleanup
Responsibility Act ("ECRA").  ECRA is now the Industrial Site Recovery
Act. Pursuant to a 1988 NJDEP administrative  consent order naming GEI
and Metramatic as respondents,  GEI has spent approximately $2 million
in  the  performance  of  certain   investigatory  and  remedial  work
addressing   groundwater   contamination   at   the   site.   However,
implementation  of a final  remedy  has not yet been  completed,  and,
therefore,  future remedial costs are currently unknown.  In 1992, GEI
filed a suit against various parties including  Hi-Speed  Checkweigher
Co.,  Inc., a wholly owned  subsidiary  of the Company that  currently
owns  the  facility,  to  recover  certain  costs  incurred  by GEI in
connection with the site. Based on currently available information and
the Company's rights of indemnification from GEI, the Company believes
that its ultimate  allocation  of costs  associated  with the past and
future  investigation  and  remediation  of this  site will not have a
material  adverse  effect  on the  Company's  financial  condition  or
results of operations.

          In  addition,  the Company is aware that Toledo  Scale,  the
former  owner  of  Toledo  Scale  or the  Company  has  been  named  a
potentially responsible party under CERCLA or analogous state statutes
at the following  third-party  owned sites with respect to the alleged
disposal at the sites by Toledo  Scale  during the period it was owned
by such  former  owner:  Granville  Solvents  Site,  Granville,  Ohio;
Aqua-Tech  Environmental,  Inc. Site, Greer, South Carolina;  Seaboard
Chemical Company Site, Jamestown, North Carolina; and the Stickney and
Tyler Landfills in Toledo,  Ohio. The former owner has also been named
in a lawsuit seeking  contribution  pursuant to CERCLA with respect to
the Caldwell  Trucking Site, New Jersey based on the alleged  disposal
at the site by  Toledo  Scale  during  the  former  owner's  period of
ownership.  Pursuant  to the  terms of the  stock  purchase  agreement
between Mettler and the former owner of Toledo Scale, the former owner
is   obligated  to   indemnify   Mettler  for  various   environmental
liabilities. To date, with respect to each of the foregoing sites, the
former owner has  undertaken  or taken steps to undertake  the defense
and  indemnification  of Toledo  Scale.  Based on currently  available
information and the Company's  contractual rights of  indemnification,
the Company believes that the costs associated with the  investigation
and remediation of these sites will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

COMPETITION

          The  markets  in  which  the  Company  operates  are  highly
competitive.  Because  of the  fragmented  nature  of  certain  of the
Company's weighing  instruments  markets,  particularly the industrial
and food retailing weighing  instruments  market,  both geographically
and by  application,  the Company  competes with numerous  regional or
specialized  competitors,  many of which are well-established in their
markets.  Some  competitors are less leveraged than the Company and/or
are divisions of larger companies with potentially  greater  financial
and other  resources than the Company.  Although the Company  believes
that it has  certain  competitive  advantages  over  its  competitors,
realizing and  maintaining  these  advantages  will require  continued
investment  by the  Company in  research  and  development,  sales and
marketing and customer service and support. The Company has, from time
to time,  experienced  price  pressures  from  competitors  in certain
product lines and geographic markets.

          In  the  United  States,   the  Company  believes  that  the
principal  competitive  factors  in its  markets  on which  purchasing
decisions  are made  are  accuracy  and  durability,  while in  Europe
accuracy  and  service  are the most  important  factors.  In emerging
markets,   where  there  is  greater  demand  for  less  sophisticated
products,  price is a more important factor than in developed markets.
Competition in the United States  laboratory market is also influenced
by the presence of large  distributors  through  which the Company and
its competitors sell many of their products.

YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE

          Where necessary, the Company is in the process of modifying,
upgrading,   or  replacing  its  computer  software  applications  and
internal  information  systems to  accommodate  the "year 2000" dating
changes  necessary to permit correct  recording of year dates for 2000
and later years. The Company does not expect that the cost of its year
2000  compliance  program will be material to its business,  financial
condition or results of operations.  The Company believes that it will
be  able to  achieve  compliance  by the end of  1999,  and  does  not
currently  anticipate any material disruption in its operations as the
result of any  failure by the Company to be in  compliance.  If any of
the Company's  significant  suppliers or customers do not successfully
and timely  achieve year 2000  compliance,  the Company's  business or
operations could be adversely affected.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

          The following table lists the Company's  principal operating
facilities,  indicating  the  location,  primary  use and  whether the
facility is owned or leased.

LOCATION                          PRINCIPAL USE(FN1)    OWNED/LEASED
- - - --------                          ------------------    ------------

Europe:
  Greifensee/Nanikon,            Production, Corporate     Owned
  Switzerland.................   Headquarters
  Uznach, Switzerland.........   Production                Owned
  Urdorf, Switzerland.........   Production                Owned
  Schwerzenbach, Switzerland..   Production                Leased
  Albstadt, Germany...........   Production                Owned
  Giesen, Germany.............   Production                Owned
  Giessen, Germany............   Sales and Service         Owned
  Steinbach, Germany..........   Sales and Service         Owned
  Viroflay, France............   Sales and Service         Owned
  Beersel, Belgium............   Sales and Service         Owned
  Tiel, Netherlands...........   Sales and Service         Owned
  Leicester, England..........   Sales and Service         Leased
  Manchester, England.........   Production, Sales         Leased
                                 and Service

Americas:
  Worthington, Ohio...........   Production                Owned
  Spartanburg, South Carolina.   Production                Owned
  Franksville, Wisconsin......   Production                Owned
  Ithaca, New York............   Production                Owned
  Wilmington, Massachusetts...   Production                Leased
  Florham Park, New Jersey....   Production                Leased
  Tampa, Florida..............   Production, Sales and     Leased
                                 Service                
  Hightstown, New Jersey......   Sales and Service         Owned
  Burlington, Canada..........   Sales and Service         Owned
  Mexico City, Mexico.........   Sales and Service         Leased
                                                        
Other:                                                  
  Shanghai, China.............   Production                Building Owned;
                                                             Land Leased
  Changzhou, China(FN2).......   Production                Building Owned;
                                                             Land Leased
  Melbourne, Australia.....      Sales and Service         Leased
                                                           
- - - -------------------
[FN]
(1)   The  Company   also   conducts   research   and   development
      activities   at   certain  of  the   listed   facilities   in
      Switzerland,  Germany,  the United  States  and,  to a lesser
      extent, China.
(2)   Held by a joint venture in which the Company owns a 60%
      interest.


      The Company believes its facilities are adequate for its
current and reasonably anticipated future needs.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

          The Company is subject to routine  litigation  incidental to
its  business.  The  Company is  currently  not  involved in any legal
proceeding that it believes could have a material  adverse effect upon
its financial  condition or results of operations.  See "Environmental
Matters"  under  Part  I,  Item  1 for  information  concerning  legal
proceedings relating to certain environmental claims.

          The  Company has  received a Notice of  Proposed  Adjustment
from  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  disallowing  $20.4  million  of
intercompany  interest deductions taken by the Company in its 1994 and
1995 tax  returns  when the  Company  was a  subsidiary  of Ciba.  The
Company  is  indemnified  under the  acquisition  agreement  with Ciba
against any loss that may arise from the proposed adjustment. However,
the Company  believes  that such  deductions  were  properly  made and
intends to assist Ciba in contesting the proposed adjustment.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

          On October 15, 1997, the Company  solicited written consents
from the  holders  of its Class B common  stock to amend its  Restated
Certificate of  Incorporation  (i) to change the corporate name of the
Company from MT Investors Inc. to  Mettler-Toledo  International  Inc.
and (ii) to increase the authorized capital stock of the Company by an
additional  168,977  shares  of  Class A  common  stock.  The  Company
received  written  consents in favor of the  amendment to its Restated
Certificate  of  Incorporation  from  holders  of 100% of the  Class B
common stock.

          On October 15, 1997, the Company  solicited written consents
from the holders of its Class B common stock to increase the number of
shares of common stock  reserved for the  Company's  Stock Option Plan
and to approve an amended and  restated  stock  option plan (the "1997
Amended  and  Restated  Stock  Option  Plan") to provide  certain  key
employees and/or directors of the company additional incentive to join
and/or remain in the service of the Company as well as to maintain and
enhance the long-term  performance and  profitability  of the Company.
The Company received written consents in favor of the amendment of the
Stock Option Plan and the 1997 Amended and Restated  Stock Option Plan
from holders of 100% of the Class B common stock.

          On November 13, 1997, the Company solicited written consents
from the  holders  of its  Class B common  stock to  approve  a merger
agreement  providing for (i) the merger of the Company's  wholly owned
subsidiary,  Mettler-Toledo  Holding  Inc.,  with and into the Company
with the Company  surviving,  (ii) the conversion of each share of the
Company's  existing  Class A,  Class B and Class C common  stock  into
12.58392  shares of the Company's  Common Stock and (iii) the adoption
of the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and
Amended By-laws (the  "Reorganization").  The Company received written
consents  in favor of the merger  from  holders of 100% of the Class B
common stock.


                                PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
        STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

MARKET INFORMATION FOR COMMON STOCK

          The Company's  Common  Stock,  par value $.01 per share (the
"Common  Stock"),  is listed on the New York Stock  Exchange under the
symbol  "MTD."  The  following  table sets forth the high and low sale
prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange
from  November 19, 1997,  the first day the Common Stock began trading
on the New York Stock Exchange through December 31, 1997.

                                                  High          Low
                                                  ----          ---

    November 19, 1997 to December 31, 1997      $18-3/4       $14-3/4
           

HOLDERS

          At March 5, 1998 there were 867  holders of record of Common
Stock and 38,336,015 shares of Common Stock outstanding.

DIVIDEND POLICY

          The Company has never paid any dividends on its common stock
and does not anticipate  paying any cash dividends on the Common Stock
in the foreseeable  future.  The current policy of the Company's Board
of  Directors  is to retain  earnings  to finance the  operations  and
expansion of the Company's business. In addition, the Company's Credit
Agreement  restricts the Registrant's  ability to pay dividends to its
shareholders. Any future determination to pay dividends will depend on
the Company's  results of  operations,  financial  condition,  capital
requirements,   contractual  restrictions  and  other  factors  deemed
relevant by the Board of Directors.

RECENT SALES OF SECURITIES

          1.  On  November  13,  1997,   the  Company's   Registration
Statement  on Form S-1 (the  "Registration  Statement")  was  declared
effective   by   the   Securities   and   Exchange   Commission   (the
"Commission").  The  Registration  Statement  (Commission  File Number
333-35597)  covered  38,336,801  shares of the Company's Common Stock,
with a proposed maximum aggregate offering amount of $613,388,816.  On
November 13, 1997, a public  offering  (the "Public  Offering") of the
Company's  Common Stock was  commenced,  and in connection  therewith,
7,666,667  shares  of  Common  Stock   (including  the   underwriters'
over-allotment  option)  were  sold  to the  public  for an  aggregate
offering price of  $107,333,338.  The balance of the shares covered by
the  Registration  Statement  were issued to holders of the  Company's
Class A,  Class B and Class C common  stock  upon  conversion  of such
shares of Class A,  Class B and Class C common  stock  into  shares of
Common Stock  pursuant to a merger  agreement  between the Company and
Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc.

          In connection with the Public Offering, the Company incurred
the following expenses:


      Underwriting discounts and commissions     $7,283,334
      Other expenses (estimated)                 $2,776,518
                                                 ----------

           Total expenses                       $10,059,852

               No  portion  of the  above  expenses  was  paid  to (i)
directors  or  officers of the  Company or to their  associates;  (ii)
persons  owning 10% of more of any class of equity  securities  of the
issuer;  or  (iii)  affiliates  of the  issuer.  After  deducting  the
foregoing  expenses,  the net  proceeds to the Company from the Public
Offering amounted to approximately $97,273,486. Such net proceeds were
used,  together with  additional  borrowings  under the Company's bank
credit  agreement,  to repay  substantially  all of the Company's then
outstanding  indebtedness.  The  managing  underwriters  of the Public
Offering were Merrill Lynch & Co., BT Alex. Brown, Credit Suisse First
Boston and Goldman, Sachs & Co., and their international affiliates.

          2.  In April 1997, the Company issued 3,857 shares of common
stock for an aggregate  consideration of approximately  $300,000.  The
shares were offered and sold to an executive officer of the Company in
reliance  on Rule 506 of  Regulation  D under the  Securities  Act. In
connection  with the Merger,  these  shares  converted  into shares of
Common Stock.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

          The  selected  historical  financial  information  set forth
below at December 31, 1994,  1995,  1996 and 1997, for the years ended
December 31, 1993,  1994 and 1995, for the period from January 1, 1996
to October 14, 1996,  for the period from October 15, 1996 to December
31, 1996, and for the year ended December 31, 1997 is derived from the
Company's financial statements, which were audited by KPMG Fides Peat,
independent auditors.  The financial information for all periods prior
to  October  15,  1996,  the  date  of the  Acquisition,  is  combined
financial  information of the  Mettler-Toledo  Group (the "Predecessor
Business").  The combined historical data of the Predecessor  Business
and the consolidated historical data of the Company are not comparable
in many respects due to the Acquisition and the Safeline  Acquisition.
See  Part  II,  Item  7,  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of
Financial   Condition  and  Results  of  Operations"   below  and  the
consolidated  financial  statements  and  accompanying  notes included
herein.  The  financial  information  presented  below was prepared in
accordance with U.S. GAAP.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

          The  following  discussion  and  analysis  of the  Company's
financial  condition  and  results  of  operations  should  be read in
conjunction  with  the  Consolidated   Financial  Statements  included
herein.

GENERAL

          The financial  statements for periods ended prior to October
15, 1996 reflect the combined operations of the Mettler-Toledo  Group,
while the  financial  statements  for periods  after  October 15, 1996
reflect the  consolidated  operations of the Company after  accounting
for the Acquisition using the purchase method of accounting.  See Note
1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.  Operating
results subsequent to the Acquisition and the Safeline Acquisition are
not comparable in many respects to the operating  results prior to the
Acquisition  and the Safeline  Acquisition.  Financial  information is
presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting  principles
in the United States of America.

          The Company operates a global business,  with net sales that
are diversified by geographic region,  product range and customer. The
Company believes that it has achieved its market leadership  positions
through  its  continued   investment  in  product   development,   the
maintenance  and,  in  some  instances,  expansion,  of  its  existing
position in  established  markets and its pursuit of new markets.  Net
sales in local  currency  (adjusted for the exit in 1996 and 1995 from
certain systems  businesses) have increased in both the laboratory and
industrial and food retailing product lines, increasing by 11% in 1997
and by 3% and 6% in 1996 and  1995,  respectively.  Net  sales in U.S.
dollars  increased  by 3% in 1997,  as the  strengthening  of the U.S.
dollar versus the  Company's  major  trading  currencies  reduced U.S.
dollar  reported  sales.  Net sales in U.S.  dollars were unchanged in
1996 and increased by 11% in 1995.  The  Company's  growth in 1997 has
benefited  from  recent  investments  to  establish  distribution  and
manufacturing infrastructure in certain emerging markets, particularly
in Asia.  Net  sales  in Asia  and  other  emerging  markets  in local
currency  increased  by 30% in  1997  over  the  prior  year,  despite
weakening economic conditions in the region. The Company believes that
its growth over the next several  years will come  primarily  from (i)
the needs of customers  in  developed  markets to continue to automate
their research and development and manufacturing  processes,  (ii) the
needs of customers in emerging markets to continue  modernizing  these
same  processes   through  the  use  of   increasingly   sophisticated
instruments,  and  (iii)  the  pursuit  of the  Company's  acquisition
strategy.

          During the  periods  presented,  the Company  increased  its
gross profit margins before non-recurring acquisition costs from 40.3%
in 1995 to 44.1% in 1997 and increased its Adjusted  Operating  Income
(gross profit less research and development  and selling,  general and
administrative  expenses) before  amortization and non-recurring costs
as a percentage of net sales from 4.6% in 1995 to 9.3% for 1997. These
increases were achieved despite the Company's continued investments in
product   development  and  in  its  distribution  and   manufacturing
infrastructure.  The Company  believes that a  significant  portion of
these  increases can be attributed to its strategy to reduce costs and
reengineer its operations. This strategy has a number of key elements,
such as ongoing efforts to direct more of its research and development
activities   to  the  reduction  of  product   costs,   to  reengineer
manufacturing,  distribution,  sales and administrative processes, and
to  consolidate  operations  and  re-deploy  resources  to lower  cost
facilities.  Examples of recent  efforts to  implement  the  different
elements of this strategy include the introduction of several products
in 1997 with  significantly  reduced  manufacturing  costs compared to
their predecessors, the closure of the Westerville, Ohio manufacturing
facility in 1996,  completion  of a targeted  workforce  reduction  of
approximately  170 personnel,  planned closure of three North American
facilities  as  described  below and the  opening of a new  laboratory
manufacturing  facility in  Shanghai,  China in 1997 with  significant
production and research and development  capabilities.  The Company is
currently  implementing  several  additional  reengineering  and  cost
reduction projects, including the consolidation of worldwide precision
balance  manufacturing,  the  restructuring  of its ordering  process,
product  delivery  and  parts  inventory  management  in  Europe,  the
realignment  of  industrial  product  manufacturing  in Europe and the
consolidation of the Company's North American  laboratory,  industrial
and food retailing businesses into a single marketing organization.

          On  May  30,  1997,  the  Company   acquired   Safeline  for
(pound)61.0  million  (approximately  $100.0 million at May 30, 1997),
plus  up to an  additional  (pound)6.0  million  (approximately  $10.0
million at May 30, 1997) for a contingent earn-out payment. In October
1997,  the  Company  made  an  additional   payment,   representing  a
post-closing  adjustment,  of (pound)1.9 million  (approximately  $3.1
million at October 3,  1997).  Such amount has been  accounted  for as
additional purchase price. Safeline, based in Manchester, U.K., is the
world's largest  manufacturer and marketer of metal detection  systems
for companies  that produce and package goods in the food  processing,
pharmaceutical,  cosmetics, chemicals and other industries. Safeline's
metal  detectors  can also be used in  conjunction  with the Company's
checkweighing  products  for  important  quality and safety  checks in
these industries.  From 1992 to 1996,  Safeline's sales increased at a
compounded annual growth rate of approximately 30%, in part due to the
introduction of new products such as the first digital  electronic and
Zero  Metal-Free  Zone  metal  detectors.  Safeline  had net sales and
Adjusted   Operating   Income  of  $40.4  million  and  $9.9  million,
respectively,  for the year ended  December  31,  1996.  The  Safeline
Acquisition was financed by (pound)47.3 million  (approximately  $77.4
million at May 30, 1997) loaned under a credit agreement together with
the issuance of (pound)13.7  million  (approximately  $22.4 million at
May 30, 1997) of seller loan notes which mature May 30, 1999.

          In the  third  and  fourth  quarters  of 1997,  the  Company
recorded  restructuring  charges totaling  approximately $6.3 million.
These charges are in connection  with the closure of three  facilities
in North  America and are  comprised  primarily of severance and other
related  benefits  and costs of exiting  facilities,  including  lease
termination  costs and write-down of existing assets to their expected
net  realizable  value.  The Company  expects  these  actions  will be
substantially completed in 1998 and that the two owned facilities will
be sold after that  period.  In  connection  with the closure of these
facilities,   the   Company   expects   to   involuntarily   terminate
approximately 70 employees.  The Company is undertaking  these actions
as part of its efforts to reduce  costs  through  reengineering.  When
complete,  these  actions  will  enable the  Company to close  certain
operations and realize cost savings  estimated at  approximately  $2.5
million on an annual basis.  The Company also  estimates  that it will
receive,  after 1998,  upon the sale of the two  facilities  which the
Company owns proceeds in excess of $5.0 million.  The Company believes
that the fair  market  value of these  facilities  approximates  their
respective book values.

          During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company completed its
initial public offering of 7,666,667 shares of Common Stock, including
the  underwriters'  over-allotment  option,  (the "Offering") at a per
share price equal to $14.00.  The Offering raised net proceeds,  after
underwriters' commission and expenses, of approximately $97.3 million.
In connection with the Offering,  the Company effected a merger by and
between  it and its direct  wholly  owned  subsidiary,  Mettler-Toledo
Holding Inc., whereby  Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc. was merged with and
into the Company (the "Merger").  In connection  with the Merger,  all
classes  of the  Company's  previous  outstanding  common  stock  were
converted  into  30,669,348  shares of a single class of Common Stock.
Concurrently with the Offering, the Company entered into a bank credit
agreement (the "Credit  Agreement")  borrowings from which, along with
the proceeds from the Offering,  were used to repay  substantially all
of the Company's then existing debt (collectively, the "Refinancing").
In  connection  with  the   Refinancing,   the  Company   recorded  an
extraordinary  charge of $31.6 million,  net of tax,  principally  for
prepayment  premiums on certain  debt repaid and for the  write-off of
existing  deferred   financing  fees.  The  Company  also  incurred  a
non-recurring  termination  fee of $2.5 million in connection with the
termination of its management  consulting agreement with AEA Investors
Inc. (the "Termination Fee").


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

          The  following  table  sets  forth  certain  items  from the
consolidated  statements of operations for the year ended December 31,
1995, for the period from January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996, for the
period from October 15, 1996 to December  31, 1996,  pro forma for the
year 1996 and actual for the year ended  December  31,  1997.  The pro
forma 1996 information  gives effect to the Acquisition,  the Safeline
Acquisition,  the Offering and the Refinancing as if such transactions
had occurred on January 1, 1996, and does not purport to represent the
Company's  actual  results if such  transactions  had occurred on such
date. The pro forma 1996 information  reflects the historical  results
of operations of the Predecessor  Business for the period from January
1, 1996 to October 14, 1996 and the  historical  results of operations
of the Company for the period  from  October 15, 1996 to December  31,
1996,  together with certain pro forma adjustments as described below.
The  consolidated  statement  of  operations  data for the year  ended
December 31, 1997 include  Safeline results from May 31, 1997. The pro
forma  1996  information  includes  Safeline's  historical  results of
operations for all of 1996. The pro forma  information is presented in
order to facilitate management's discussion and analysis.



    Year Ended December 31, 1997 Compared to Pro Forma Year Ended 
    December 31, 1996

          Net sales were  $878.4  million  for 1997,  compared  to pro
forma 1996 net sales of $889.6 million. As previously  described,  pro
forma 1996 includes a full year of Safeline's operating results, while
1997 only  includes  the  operating  results of Safeline  from May 31,
1997.  Net sales in local  currencies  during the year  increased  11%
(excluding  Safeline  results  from pro forma 1996) and 7%  (excluding
Safeline results from both pro forma 1996 and actual 1997).

          Net sales in local currencies in 1997 in Europe increased 6%
as  compared  to net  sales  in local  currencies  in pro  forma  1996
(excluding  Safeline  results from pro forma 1996). Net sales in local
currencies during 1997 in the Americas increased 11%,  principally due
to  improved  market  conditions  for  sales  to  industrial  and food
retailing customers. Net sales in local currencies in 1997 in Asia and
other   markets   increased   30%,   primarily  as  a  result  of  the
establishment  of additional  direct marketing and distribution in the
region. During the six months ended December 31, 1997, sales trends in
Europe were more  favorable  compared to sales trends in the first two
quarters of 1997.  Overall,  the Company's  business in Asia and other
markets has remained solid. However,  growth in net sales in Southeast
Asia and Korea (which collectively  represent  approximately 3% of the
Company's  total  net sales for  1997)  has  slowed,  and the  Company
anticipates  that  overall net sales  growth in Asia will slow in 1998
and margins  will be  reduced.  The  Company  believes  Asia and other
emerging markets will continue to provide  opportunities for growth in
the long-term  based upon the movement  toward  international  quality
standards,  the  need  to  upgrade  mechanical  scales  to  electronic
versions and the  establishment of local production  facilities by the
Company's multinational client base.

          The  operating  results for  Safeline  (which as  previously
noted were  included in the  Company's  results from May 31, 1997) had
the effect of increasing  the Company's net sales by $28.5 million for
1997.  Additionally,  Safeline's  operating  results had the effect of
increasing the Company's Adjusted Operating Income by $7.1 million for
the same period.  The Company recorded  non-cash  purchase  accounting
adjustments for purchased research and development ($30.0 million) and
the sale of inventories  revalued to fair value ($2.1 million)  during
such period.

          Gross profit  before  non-recurring  acquisition  costs as a
percentage of net sales increased to 44.1% for 1997, compared to 41.1%
for pro forma 1996. Gross profit in 1997 includes the previously noted
$2.1 million  non-cash  charge  associated with the excess of the fair
value over the historic  value of  inventory  acquired in the Safeline
Acquisition.   The  improved  gross  profit  percentage  reflects  the
benefits of reduced product costs arising from the Company's  research
and development  efforts,  ongoing  productivity  improvements and the
depreciation  of the Swiss franc against the Company's other principal
trading currencies.

          Research and  development  expenses as a  percentage  of net
sales decreased to 5.4% for 1997, compared to 5.7% for pro forma 1996;
however,   the  local  currency  spending  level  remained  relatively
constant period to period.

          Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage
of net sales  increased  to 29.6% for 1997,  compared to 28.3% for pro
forma  1996.  This  increase  is  primarily  a result of  establishing
additional direct marketing and distribution in Asia.

          Adjusted Operating Income was $81.5 million,  or 9.3% of net
sales in 1997 compared to $63.1  million,  or 7.1% of net sales in pro
forma 1996,  an increase of 29.2% (40.0%  excluding  Safeline  results
from both pro forma 1996 and actual  1997).  The 1997 period  excludes
non-recurring costs of $2.1 million for the revaluation of inventories
to fair value in  connection  with the Safeline  Acquisition  and $2.5
million for the Termination Fee.

          As  previously   noted,  in  connection  with  the  Safeline
Acquisition,  $30.0  million of the purchase  price was  attributed to
purchased  research  and  development  in  process.  Such  amount  was
expensed   immediately   following  the  Safeline   Acquisition.   The
technological feasibility of the products being developed had not been
established  as of the date of the Safeline  Acquisition.  The Company
expects that the projects  underlying  these research and  development
efforts will be substantially complete over the next two years.

          Interest  expense was $35.9  million  for 1997,  compared to
$30.0 million for pro forma 1996. The difference is principally due to
the fact that the pro forma 1996  information  reflects a full year of
the  benefits  of  reduced  borrowing  costs  in  connection  with the
Company's Offering and Refinancing which occurred in November 1997.

          Other  charges,  net of  $10.8  million  for  1997  includes
restructuring  related charges of approximately $6.3 million and other
charges  of  approximately   $3.5  million  relating  to  (i)  certain
financial derivative financial instruments acquired in 1996 and closed
in 1997 and (ii)  foreign  currency  exchange  losses  resulting  from
certain  unhedged bank debt  denominated in foreign  currencies  (such
derivative  financial  instruments  and such unhedged bank debt are no
longer held pursuant to current Company policy). The decrease compared
to  other  charges,  net of  $14.0  million  for  pro  forma  1996  is
principally a result of lower  restructuring  related  charges in 1997
compared to pro forma 1996 ($6.3 million versus $12.6 million).

          The significant increase in the Company's effective tax rate
in 1997 was primarily attributable to the nondeductibility of goodwill
and purchased research and development  charges incurred in connection
with the Safeline Acquisition.

          Net earnings before  non-recurring  items were $19.1 million
in 1997.  Such  non-recurring  items in 1997  include  the  previously
mentioned  charges  for  purchased   research  and  development,   the
revaluation  of inventories to fair value,  the  Termination  Fee, the
restructuring  of North  American  operations  and losses  relating to
derivative financial instruments and unhedged bank debt denominated in
foreign  currencies.  Including  these  charges of $43.0 million after
taxes, the net loss before  extraordinary  items was $23.9 million for
1997 compared to net earnings of $5.0 million for pro forma 1996.

          The  extraordinary  loss of $41.2 million in 1997 represents
charges  for the early  repayment  premium on the senior  subordinated
notes and the write-off of capitalized  debt issuance fees  associated
with the senior subordinated notes and previous credit facilities. See
"Liquidity and Capital Resources" under Part II, Item 7.

      For the Period from January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996, the
      Period From October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996 and Pro
      Forma 1996 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1995

          Net sales for the period from January 1, 1996 to October 14,
1996 and for the period from  October  15,  1996 to December  31, 1996
were $662.2 million and $186.9 million,  respectively.  Pro forma 1996
net sales were $889.6 million,  or $849.1 million  excluding  Safeline
results,  compared to actual net sales of $850.4  million in 1995. Net
sales (pro forma excluding  Safeline) in local currency  increased 3%,
excluding the impact of reductions of the systems  business,  but were
offset by a strengthening of the U.S. dollar, the Company's  reporting
currency,   relative  to  the  local   currencies   of  the  Company's
operations.  The flat  sales (pro forma  excluding  Safeline)  in 1996
compared  to actual  1995  resulted  from  slightly  lower  sales from
products  in the  industrial  and food  retailing  markets,  offset by
strong  performance by the product lines in the laboratory market. The
growth in the laboratory  market was across  substantially all product
lines and geographical  regions as sales in local currency  (excluding
Safeline)  increased 7% compared to the previous  year. In particular,
new  product   introductions   in  titration,   thermal  and  reaction
calorimetry   as  well  as  new  Ohaus  products  for  the  education,
laboratory and light industrial  market helped to increase  laboratory
market  sales.  The slight  decline in industrial  and food  retailing
sales resulted from overall  weakness in the European market where the
Company has been able to retain its market share. This market weakness
has persisted in early 1997.

          Net sales (pro forma excluding  Safeline) in Europe in local
currency  decreased 2% in 1996 compared to actual 1995 due to a weaker
second half of the year in 1996 in all major  markets,  and especially
in key countries such as Germany,  France and the United Kingdom.  Net
sales (pro forma excluding Safeline) in the Americas in local currency
increased  by 5% over actual  1995 due to growth in the United  States
and Latin America and double digit expansion in laboratory measurement
instruments other than balances and in related service. Net sales (pro
forma excluding  Safeline) in Asia and other markets in local currency
increased  by  8%  over  actual   1995,   primarily  as  a  result  of
significantly  increased  sales in the Shanghai  operation  and strong
sales in Japan and Australia.

          Gross  profit for the period from January 1, 1996 to October
14, 1996 and for the period from October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996
was $267.0  million and $50.1  million,  respectively.  Pro forma 1996
gross profit was $365.8 million or $349.3 million (excluding  Safeline
results).  This compares to $342.3  million in actual 1995.  Pro forma
gross profit as a percentage of sales  increased to 41.1% in 1996 from
40.3% in actual  1995.  The  increased  gross profit  margin  resulted
principally from operational  improvements and the depreciation of the
Swiss franc against the Company's other principal trading  currencies.
See "Effect of Currency on Results of Operations" below.

          Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses and research
and  development  expenses  for the  period  from  January  1, 1996 to
October 14, 1996 and for the period from  October 15, 1996 to December
31, 1996 were  $227.1  million and $69.2  million,  respectively.  Pro
forma 1996  selling,  general  and  administrative  and  research  and
development   expenses   totaled  $302.7  million  or  $296.1  million
excluding  Safeline.  This compares to $302.9  million in actual 1995.
Pro forma selling,  general and  administrative  expenses and research
and development  expenses as a percentage of net sales decreased to an
aggregate  of  34.0%  in 1996  from  35.6% in  actual  1995.  The cost
decreases   resulted   primarily  from  the  currency  effect  of  the
depreciation  of the Swiss  franc  against the  Company's  other major
trading currencies and the Company's cost control efforts.  These cost
decreases were partially  offset by  non-recurring  legal and advisory
fees of $4.8 million.

          In connection with the Acquisition,  the Company  allocated,
based upon  independent  valuations,  $114.1  million of the  purchase
price to purchased  research and  development in process.  Such amount
was expensed immediately following the Acquisition.

          Interest  expense  for the  period  from  January 1, 1996 to
October 14, 1996 and for the period from  October 15, 1996 to December
31, 1996 was $13.9 million and $8.7 million,  respectively.  Pro forma
interest expense increased to $30.0 million in 1996 from $18.2 million
in actual 1995,  principally due to a higher debt level as a result of
the Acquisition and the Safeline  Acquisition.  Interest expense since
the Acquisition and the Safeline Acquisition is materially  different.
See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below.

          Other income,  net for the period January 1, 1996 to October
14, 1996 of $1.3 million includes  interest income of $3.4 million and
severance  and other exit costs of $1.9  million  associated  with the
closing of its Westerville,  Ohio facility. Other charges, net for the
period  October  15,  1996  to  December  31,  1996 of  $17.1  million
principally  represent (i) losses on foreign currency  transactions of
$8.3 million of which $5.7 million were  incurred in  connection  with
the Acquisition,  (ii) employee severance benefits associated with the
Company's  general  headcount  reduction  programs in Europe and North
America of $4.6 million which were announced  during such period,  and
(iii) the realignment of the analytical and precision balance business
in  Switzerland  of $6.2  million  which was  internally  announced in
December  1996. In connection  with such programs the Company  reduced
its  workforce by  approximately  170 employees in 1996 and intends to
further  reduce its workforce by  approximately  70 employees in 1997.
The  Company  anticipates  that as a result of the  foregoing  it will
achieve cost savings in the range of $8.3  million.  Such cost savings
consist primarily of lower employee salary and benefit costs and fixed
manufacturing costs. In addition, at the time of the Acquisition,  the
Company  estimated  it would  incur  additional  selling,  general and
administrative  expenses of $1.3  million  annually as a result of the
Acquisition.

          Earnings  before taxes and minority  interest for the period
from  January 1, 1996 to October  14,  1996 were $25.2  million.  Loss
before  taxes and  minority  interest  for the period from October 15,
1996 to  December  31,  1996 was $160.1  million.  This loss  includes
non-recurring  costs of $114.1  million for the allocation of purchase
price to in-process research and development  projects,  $32.2 million
for the  revaluation  of  inventories  to fair value,  $9.9 million of
other  charges  (an  additional  $1.9  million  of other  charges  was
incurred by the  Predecessor  Business  in 1996) and $4.8  million for
non-recurring legal and advisory fees. Pro forma earnings before taxes
and minority interest would have been $12.5 million in 1996. Pro Forma
Adjusted  Operating  Income would have been $67.9  million in 1996, or
$58.0  million  (excluding  Safeline),  compared  to $39.5  million in
actual 1995.

          Net  earnings for the period from January 1, 1996 to October
14, 1996 were $14.5 million.  The net loss for the period from October
15,  1996 to  December  31,  1996 was  $159.0  million.  Pro forma net
earnings of $5.0  million in 1996  compared  to net  earnings of $18.3
million in actual 1995.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

          In November 1997, the Company refinanced its previous credit
agreement and purchased  all of its 9 3/4% Senior  Subordinated  Notes
due 2006 (the  "Notes")  pursuant to a tender offer with proceeds from
the Offering and additional borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The
Notes  were  originally  issued  in  October  1996 at the  time of the
Acquisition.

          The Credit  Agreement  provides for term loan  borrowings in
aggregate  principal  amounts  of  $101.6  million,  SFr 85.5  million
(approximately  $59.0  million at December 31,  1997) and  (pound)21.7
million  (approximately  $36.2  million at December 31, 1997) that are
scheduled to mature in 2004, a Canadian  revolver with availability of
CDN $26.3 million  (approximately CDN $19.0 million of which was drawn
as of December 31,  1997) which is scheduled to mature in 2004,  and a
multi-currency  revolving credit facility with  availability of $400.0
million  (approximately  $220.0  million was available at December 31,
1997)  which is also  scheduled  to mature in 2004.  The  Company  had
borrowings  of $357.6  million  under the Credit  Agreement  and $39.2
million  under  various  other  arrangements  as of December 31, 1997.
Under the Credit Agreement,  amounts  outstanding under the term loans
amortize in quarterly installments.  In addition, the Credit Agreement
obligates  the  Company  to  make  mandatory  prepayments  in  certain
circumstances  with the proceeds of asset sales or issuance of capital
stock or  indebtedness  and with certain  excess cash flow. The Credit
Agreement  imposes  certain   restrictions  on  the  Company  and  its
subsidiaries,   including   restrictions   on  the  ability  to  incur
indebtedness, make investments, grant liens, sell financial assets and
engage in certain other activities.  The Company must also comply with
certain  financial  covenants.  The  Credit  Agreement  is  secured by
certain assets of the Company.  The Credit  Agreement  imposes certain
restrictions  on  the  Company's  ability  to  pay  dividends  to  its
shareholders.

          In connection with the Refinancing,  the Company recorded an
extraordinary  charge  amounting  to $31.6  million,  principally  for
prepayment premiums on its Notes and the write-off of capitalized debt
issuance fees. In addition,  with the May 29, 1997  refinancing of its
previous credit facility, the Company recorded an extraordinary charge
of  $9.6  million,   representing   a  charge  for  the  write-off  of
capitalized  debt issuance fees and related  expenses  associated with
the previous credit facility.

          At December 31, 1997,  approximately  $102.0  million of the
borrowings  under  the  Credit  Agreement  were  denominated  in  U.S.
dollars.  The balance of the borrowings under the Credit Agreement and
under  local  working  capital  facilities  were also  denominated  in
certain of the Company's other principal trading currencies  amounting
to  approximately  $295.0  million at December  31,  1997.  Changes in
exchange rates between the  currencies in which the Company  generates
cash flow and the currencies in which its  borrowings are  denominated
will affect the Company's liquidity. In addition,  because the Company
borrows in a variety of  currencies,  its debt balances will fluctuate
due to changes in exchange  rates.  See "Effect of Currency on Results
of Operations" below.

          The  Acquisition  was financed  principally  through capital
contributions  of $190.0  million  before  related  expenses  from the
Company,  borrowings  under a  previous  credit  agreement  of  $307.0
million  and  $135.0  million  from the  issuance  of the  Notes.  The
Safeline  Acquisition  was  financed  by  (pound)47.3  million  ($77.4
million at May 30, 1997) loaned under the  Company's  previous  credit
agreement  together with the issuance of  (pound)13.7  million  ($22.4
million at May 30,  1997) of seller  loan notes  which  mature May 30,
1999.

          Prior to the  Acquisition,  the  Company's  cash  and  other
liquidity was used principally to fund capital  expenditures,  working
capital  requirements,  debt service and dividends to Ciba.  Following
the  Acquisition  and the Safeline  Acquisition,  the annual  interest
expense  associated  with increased  borrowings,  as well as scheduled
principal  payments  of term loans  under the Credit  Agreement,  have
significantly increased the Company's liquidity requirements.

          The Company's capital  expenditures totaled $25.9 million in
1995,  $29.4  million  in pro forma  1996 and $22.3  million in actual
1997. Capital expenditures are primarily for machinery,  equipment and
the purchase and  expansion of  facilities,  including the purchase of
land for, and  construction of, the Company's  Shanghai  manufacturing
facility.  Capital expenditures for 1998 are expected to increase over
1997 levels,  but should remain  consistent with earlier  periods.  In
connection with the transfer of the Japanese  laboratory business from
a former agent to a subsidiary of the Company,  the Company  agreed to
make total  payments  of  approximately  SFr 8.0 million of which only
approximately SFr 1.0 million remains to be paid.

          The  Company's  cash  provided by operating  activities  was
$55.6  million in 1997 as  compared  to $62.5  million  for the period
January 1, 1996 to October  14,  1996 and $9.6  million for the period
October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996. The 1997 results include higher
interest  costs  resulting  from  the  Acquisition  and  the  Safeline
Acquisition.

          At December 31, 1997,  consolidated  debt,  net of cash, was
$373.2 million.

          The Company continues to explore  potential  acquisitions to
expand  its   product   portfolio   and   improve   its   distribution
capabilities.  In  connection  with any  acquisition,  the Company may
incur additional indebtedness.

          The Company currently believes that cash flow from operating
activities,  together  with  borrowings  available  under  the  Credit
Agreement and local working capital facilities,  will be sufficient to
fund currently  anticipated working capital needs and capital spending
requirements as well as debt service requirements for at least several
years, but there can be no assurance that this will be the case.

      Effect of Currency on Results of Operations

          The Company's  operations are conducted by  subsidiaries  in
many  countries,  and the  results  of  operations  and the  financial
position of each of those  subsidiaries  are  reported in the relevant
foreign  currency  and  then  translated  into  U.S.  dollars  at  the
applicable  foreign  exchange  rate  for  inclusion  in the  Company's
consolidated  financial  statements.   Accordingly,   the  results  of
operations of such  subsidiaries as reported in U.S.  dollars can vary
as a result of changes in currency  exchange  rates.  Specifically,  a
strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus other  currencies  reduces net
sales  and  earnings  as  translated  into  U.S.  dollars,  whereas  a
weakening of the U.S. dollar has the opposite effect.

          Swiss  franc-denominated  costs  represent  a  much  greater
percentage    of   the   Company's    total    expenses   than   Swiss
franc-denominated  sales  represent  of total  sales.  In general,  an
appreciation  of the Swiss  franc  versus the  Company's  other  major
trading currencies,  especially the principal European currencies, has
a  negative  impact  on the  Company's  results  of  operations  and a
depreciation  of the Swiss  franc  versus the  Company's  other  major
trading currencies, especially the principal European currencies has a
positive impact on the Company's results of operations.  The effect of
these  changes  generally  offsets in part the  translation  effect on
earnings  before  interest  and taxes of  changes  in  exchange  rates
between  the  U.S.  dollar  and  other  currencies  described  in  the
preceding paragraph.

      Taxes

          The  Company is subject to  taxation  in many  jurisdictions
throughout  the  world.  The  Company's  effective  tax  rate  and tax
liability will be affected by a number of factors,  such as the amount
of taxable income in particular  jurisdictions,  the tax rates in such
jurisdictions, tax treaties between jurisdictions, the extent to which
the  Company  transfers  funds  between  jurisdictions  and  income is
repatriated,  and future changes in law. Generally,  the tax liability
for   each   legal   entity   is   determined    either   (i)   on   a
non-consolidated/combined  basis  or (ii)  on a  consolidated/combined
basis only with  other  eligible  entities  subject to tax in the same
jurisdiction,  in either case without  regard to the taxable losses of
non-consolidated/combined   affiliated  entities.  As  a  result,  the
Company may pay income taxes to certain  jurisdictions even though the
Company on an overall basis incurs a net loss for the period.

      Environmental Matters

          The  Company is subject  to various  environmental  laws and
regulations in the  jurisdictions  in which it operates.  The Company,
like many of its  competitors,  has  incurred,  and will  continue  to
incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in complying
with such laws and  regulations  in both the United States and abroad.
The  Company  does  not  currently  anticipate  any  material  capital
expenditures  for  environmental  control  technology.  Some  risk  of
environmental  liability is inherent in the  Company's  business,  and
there can be no assurance that material  environmental  costs will not
arise in the future.  However,  the Company  does not  anticipate  any
material  adverse  effect on its results of  operations  or  financial
condition as a result of future costs of environmental compliance.

      Inflation

          Inflation can affect the costs of goods and services used by
the Company. The competitive environment in which the Company operates
limits somewhat the Company's  ability to recover higher costs through
increased  selling  prices.  Moreover,  there  may be  differences  in
inflation  rates  between  countries  in which the Company  incurs the
major  portion of its costs and other  countries  in which the Company
sells its products,  which may limit the Company's  ability to recover
increased  costs,  if not offset by future increase of selling prices.
The  Company's  growth  strategy  includes  expansion in China,  Latin
America  and  Eastern  Europe,  which  have  experienced  inflationary
conditions.  To date,  inflationary conditions have not had a material
effect on the Company's  operating results.  However, as the Company's
presence in China,  Latin America and Eastern Europe increases,  these
inflationary  conditions  could have a greater impact on the Company's
operating results.

      Seasonality

          The Company's business has historically experienced a slight
amount of seasonal  variation,  with sales in the first fiscal quarter
slightly lower than,  and sales in the fourth fiscal quarter  slightly
higher than, sales in the second and third fiscal quarters. This trend
has a somewhat  greater effect on income from  operations  than on net
sales due to the effect of fixed costs.

      Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risks

          Prior to 1997, the Company entered into currency forward and
option  contracts  primarily as a hedge  against  anticipated  foreign
currency exposures and not for speculative  purposes.  Such contracts,
which are types of financial derivatives, limit the Company's exposure
to  both  favorable  and  unfavorable  currency  fluctuations.   These
contracts  are  adjusted to reflect  market  values as of each balance
sheet  date,  with the  resulting  unrealized  gains and losses  being
recognized in financial income or expense, as appropriate. At December
31, 1997, all remaining derivative instruments met the requirements of
hedge accounting.

          During 1997,  the Company has entered into certain  interest
rate swap and cap agreements. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements included herein.

      New Accounting Standards

          In June  1997,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board
issued  Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 130 ("SFAS
130"),  "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income." SFAS 130 becomes effective
for fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15,  1997 and  requires
reclassification  of  earlier  financial   statements  for  comparison
purposes.  SFAS 130  requires  that  changes in the amounts of certain
items,  including foreign currency  translation  adjustments and gains
and  losses  on  certain   securities,   be  shown  in  the  financial
statements.  SFAS 130 does  not  require  a  specific  format  for the
financial  statement in which  comprehensive  income is reported,  but
does require that an amount representing total comprehensive income be
reported in that  statement.  Management  has not yet  determined  the
effect of the adoption of SFAS 130.

          Also in June 1997, the Financial  Accounting Standards Board
issued  Statement of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131 ("SFAS
131"),  "Disclosures  about  Segments  of an  Enterprise  and  Related
Information."  This  Statement  will  change the way public  companies
report   information  about  segments  of  their  business  in  annual
financial  statements and requires them to report  selected  financial
information in their quarterly reports issued to shareholders. It also
requires entity-wide disclosures about products and services an entity
provides,  the material countries in which it holds assets and reports
revenues,  and its major  customers.  The  Statement is effective  for
fiscal years  beginning  after  December 15, 1997.  Management has not
determined the effect of the adoption of SFAS 131.

      Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks

          This  Annual  Report on Form 10-K  includes  forward-looking
statements  that reflect the  Company's  current views with respect to
future   events   and   financial   performance,   including   capital
expenditures, planned product introductions,  research and development
expenditures, potential future growth, including potential penetration
of developed  markets and potential  growth  opportunities in emerging
markets,  potential future  acquisitions,  potential cost savings from
planned  employee  reductions and  restructuring  programs,  estimated
proceeds from and timing of asset sales,  planned  operational changes
and research and development efforts,  strategic plans and future cash
sources and requirements.  The words "believe," "expect," "anticipate"
and similar expressions identify forward-looking  statements.  Readers
are  cautioned  not to place undue  reliance on these  forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of their dates. The Company undertakes
no  obligation  to  publicly  update  or  revise  any  forward-looking
statements,  whether as a result of new information,  future events or
otherwise. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of
risks   and   uncertainties,   including   the  risk  of   substantial
indebtedness  on  operations  and  liquidity,  risks  associated  with
currency fluctuations, risks associated with international operations,
highly  competitive  markets  and  technological  developments,  risks
relating  to  downturns  or  consolidation   affecting  the  Company's
customers,  risks relating to future  acquisitions,  risks  associated
with  reliance  on  key  management,   uncertainties  associated  with
environmental  matters,  risks relating to  restrictions on payment of
dividends  and risks  relating  to certain  anti-takeover  provisions,
which could cause actual results to differ  materially from historical
results or those  anticipated.  For a  discussion  of these  risks and
uncertainties,  see Exhibit 99.1,  Factors  Affecting Future Operating
Results, included as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

           Not Applicable.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

          The financial statements required by this item are set forth
on pages F-1 through  F-29 and the related  financial  schedule is set
forth on page S-2.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING 
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

           Not Applicable.


                               PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

          The directors and executive  officers of the  Registrant are
set forth below. All directors hold office until the annual meeting of
shareholders  following  their election or until their  successors are
duly elected and  qualified.  Officers  are  appointed by the Board of
Directors and serve at the discretion thereof.

NAME                              AGE POSITION
- - - ----                              --- --------
Philip Caldwell................   78  Chairman of the Board of Directors
Robert F. Spoerry..............   42  President, Chief Executive Officer
                                       and Director
William P. Donnelly............   36  Vice President, Chief Financial 
                                       Officer, and Assistant Secretary
Karl M. Lang...................   50  Head, Laboratory Division
Lukas Braunschweiler...........   41  Head, Industrial and Retail (Europe)
John D. Robechek...............   49  Head, Industrial and Retail (Americas)
Peter Burker...................   52  Head, Human Resources
Thomas Rubbe...................   43  Head, Logistics and Information Systems
Reginald H. Jones..............   80  Director
John D. Macomber...............   70  Director
John M. Manser.................   50  Director
Laurence Z.Y. Moh..............   71  Director
Thomas P. Salice...............   37  Director
Alan W. Wilkinson..............   42  Director

          Philip  Caldwell has been Chairman of the Board of Directors
since  October  1996.  Effective  May 18, 1998,  Mr.  Caldwell will no
longer  serve as  Chairman.  Mr.  Caldwell  has been  Senior  Managing
Director of Lehman Brothers Inc. and its predecessor,  Shearson Lehman
Brothers  Holdings Inc.,  since 1985.  During a 32 year career at Ford
Motor Company, Mr. Caldwell was Chairman of the Board of Directors and
Chief Executive  Officer from 1980 to 1985 and a Director from 1973 to
1990.  Mr.  Caldwell is also a Director of Zurich  Holding  Company of
America,  Inc., American Guarantee & Liability Insurance Company,  The
Mexico Fund, Waters Corporation and Russell Reynolds Associates,  Inc.
He has served as a Director of the Chase  Manhattan  Corporation,  the
Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., Digital Equipment  Corporation,  Federated
Department Stores Inc., the Kellogg Company,  Shearson Lehman Brothers
Holdings  Inc.,  CasTech  Aluminum  Group,  Inc.,  Specialty  Coatings
International Inc., and Zurich Reinsurance Centre Holdings, Inc.

          Robert F.  Spoerry has been  President  and Chief  Executive
Officer of the Company since 1993. He served as Head,  Industrial  and
Retail (Europe) of the Company from 1987 to 1993. Mr. Spoerry has been
a Director  since October 1996.  Effective May 18, 1998,  Mr.  Spoerry
will  assume  the  additional  office  of  Chairman  of the  Board  of
Directors.

          William P. Donnelly has been Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and  Assistant  Secretary of the Company  since April 1, 1997.
From 1993 until joining the Company,  he held various senior financial
and management positions, including most recently Group Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer,  with Elsag Bailey Process Automation,  a
global  manufacturer of instrumentation and analytical  products,  and
developer of distributed control systems.  Prior to 1993, Mr. Donnelly
was  associated  with  the  international  accounting  firm  of  Price
Waterhouse.

          Karl M.  Lang  has been  Head,  Laboratory  Division  of the
Company  since  1994.  From  1991 to 1994 he was  based  in Japan as a
representative of senior management with  responsibility for expansion
of the Asian operations.

          Lukas  Braunschweiler  has been Head,  Industrial and Retail
(Europe)  of the  Company  since  1995.  From 1992  until 1995 he held
various  senior  management  positions  with the Landis & Gyr Group, a
manufacturer of electrical meters.  Prior to August 1992 he was a Vice
President in the Technology  Group of Saurer Group, a manufacturer  of
textile machinery.

          John D.  Robechek  has  been  Head,  Industrial  and  Retail
(Americas)  of the Company and  President of  Mettler-Toledo,  Inc., a
U.S.-based  subsidiary of the Company,  since 1995.  From 1990 through
1994 he  served  as  Senior  Vice  President  and  managed  all of the
Company's U.S. subsidiaries.

          Peter Burker has been Head,  Human  Resources of the Company
since 1994. From 1992 to 1994 he was Mettler-Toledo's  General Manager
in Spain, and from 1989 to 1991 he headed the Company's  operations in
Italy.

          Thomas  Rubbe  has  been  Head,  Logistics  and  Information
Systems of the Company  since  1995.  From 1990 to 1995 he was head of
Controlling,  Finance and  Administration  with the  Company's  German
marketing organization.

          Reginald H. Jones has been a Director  since  October  1996.
Mr.  Jones  retired as Chairman of the Board of  Directors  of General
Electric  Company  ("General  Electric")  in April  1981.  At  General
Electric,  he served as Chairman of the Board of  Directors  and Chief
Executive  Officer from December  1972 through  April 1981,  President
from June 1972 to  December  1972 and a Director  from  August 1971 to
April 1981. Mr. Jones is also a Director of ASA Limited and Birmingham
Steel Corporation.

          John D. Macomber has been a Director  since October 1996. He
has been a  principal  of JDM  Investment  Group  since  1992.  He was
Chairman and President of the Export-Import  Bank of the United States
(an  agency of the U.S.  Government)  from 1989 to 1992.  From 1973 to
1986 Mr. Macomber was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Celanese
Corporation.  Prior to that,  Mr.  Macomber  was a Senior  Partner  of
McKinsey & Company.  Mr.  Macomber is also a Director of Textron Inc.,
Bristol-Myers  Squibb  Company,  Xerox  Corporation,  Lehman  Brothers
Holdings Inc., Pilkington plc and Brown Group, Inc.

          John M. Manser has been a Director  since August 1997. He is
the Treasurer of the Worldwide  Life Science Group of Novartis,  which
has its  headquarters in  Switzerland.  He has been with Novartis (and
its predecessor Ciba-Geigy) since 1981.

          Laurence Z.Y. Moh has been a Director since October 1996. At
present he is Chairman and CEO of Plantation  Timber Products  Limited
(CHINA),  which  he  founded  in  1996.  He is  Chairman  Emeritus  of
Universal Furniture Limited, which he founded in 1959.

          Thomas P. Salice has been a Director since October 1996. Mr.
Salice is a Managing Director of AEA Investors and has been associated
with AEA Investors  since June 1989.  Mr. Salice is also a Director of
Waters Corporation.

          Alan W.  Wilkinson  has been a Director  since October 1996.
Mr.  Wilkinson  has been a Managing  Director of AEA  Investors  since
September  1989.  Prior to his  association  with AEA  Investors,  Mr.
Wilkinson was a Vice President in the Merchant Banking and Mergers and
Acquisitions divisions of Lehman Brothers Inc.

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

          The   information   appearing  in  the  sections   captioned
"Directors'  Compensation," "Executive Compensation" and "Compensation
Committee  Interlocks and Insider  Participation"  in the Registrant's
Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "1998
Proxy Statement") is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
           MANAGEMENT

          The   information   appearing  in  the  section   "Principal
Shareholders" in the 1998 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference
herein.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

          The information  appearing in the section captioned "Certain
Transactions" in the 1998 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference
herein.

                                PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
           FORM 8-K

      (a) Documents Filed as Part of this Report:

           1.   Financial  Statements.  See  Index to  Consolidated
Financial Statements included on page F-1.


           2.   Financial  Statement  Schedule  and  related  Audit
Report.  See Schedule I - included on pages S-1 and S-2.


           3.   List of  Exhibits.  See Index of Exhibits  included
on page E-1.

      (b) Reports on Form 8-K:

          None.

                           SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or Section  15(d) of
the  Securities  Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

                                      Mettler-Toledo International Inc.
                                              (Registrant)
Date: March 13, 1998
                                      By:  /s/ ROBERT F. SPOERRY
                                          -----------------------
                                          Robert F. Spoerry
                                          President and Chief
                                          Executive Officer


           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities  Exchange
Act of 1934,  as amended,  this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been
signed below by the following  persons on behalf of the  registrant
and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

       Signature                  Title                   Date
       ---------                  -----                   ----

                           President and Chief       March 11, 1998
 /s/ ROBERT F. SPOERRY     Executive Officer
- - - -------------------------  and Director
    Robert F. Spoerry     

/s/ WILLIAM P. DONNELLY    Vice President, Chief     March 11, 1998
- - - -------------------------  Financial Officer and
   William P. Donnelly     Assistant Secretary  
                           (Principal financial
                           and accounting 
                           officer)

  /s/ PHILIP CALDWELL     Chairman of the Board      March 11, 1998
- - - -------------------------
     Philip Caldwell

 /s/ REGINALD H. JONES          Director             March 11, 1998
- - - -------------------------
    Reginald H. Jones

  /s/ JOHN D. MACOMBER          Director             March 11, 1998
- - - -------------------------
    John D. Macomber

   /s/ JOHN M. MANSER           Director             March 11, 1998
- - - -------------------------
     John M. Manser

 /s/ LAURENCE Z.Y. MOH          Director             March 11, 1998
- - - -------------------------
    Laurence Z.Y. Moh

  /s/ THOMAS P. SALICE          Director             March 11, 1998
- - - -------------------------
    Thomas P. Salice

 /s/ ALAN W. WILKINSON          Director             March 11, 1998
- - - -------------------------
    Alan W. Wilkinson


                                                   PAGE NUMBER OR
EXHIBIT NO.       DESCRIPTION                INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
- - - -----------       -----------                --------------------------

     2.1    Stock Purchase Agreement      Filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
            between AEA-MT Inc., AG       Registration Statement, as amended,
            fur Prazisionsinstrumente     on Form S-1, of the Company
            and Ciba-Geigy AG, as         (Reg. No. 33-09621) and
            amended                       incorporated herein by
                                          reference
   
     2.2    Share Sale and Purchase         Filed as Exhibit 2 to the
            Agreement relating to the     Current Report on Form 8-K
            acquisition of the entire     of Mettler-Toledo Holding
            issued share capital          Inc. dated June 3, 1997
            of Safeline Limited            and incorporated herein
                                          by reference

     3.1*   Amended and Restated          Page 70
            Certificate of
            Incorporation of the
            Company

     3.2*   Amended By-laws of the        Page 76
            Company

     4.1    Specimen Form of the          Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the
            Company's Stock Certificate   Statement, as amended, on
                                          Form S-1 of the Company
                                          (Reg. No. 333-35597) and
                                          incorporated herein by
                                          reference

     10.1   Employment Agreement between  Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the
            Robert F. Spoerry and         Annual Report on Form 10-K
            Mettler-Toledo AG, dated      of Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc.
            as of October 30, 1996        dated March 31,1997 and
                                          incorporated herein by
                                          reference

     10.2*  Employment Agreement between  Page 91
            Lukas Braunschweiler and 
            Mettler-Toledo GmbH dated as 
            of November 10, 1997

     10.3*  Employment Agreement between  Page 97
            William P. Donnelly and 
            Mettler-Toledo GmbH dated as
            of November 10, 1997

     10.4*  Employment Agreement between  Page 103
            Karl M. Lang and Mettler-
            Toledo GmbH dated as of
            November 10, 1997

     10.5*  Employment Agreement between  Page 109
            John D. Robachek and Mettler-
            Toledo, Inc. dated as of
            November 10, 1997

     10.6   Loan Agreement between        Filed  as  Exhibit  10.5 to the
            Robert F. Spoerry and         Annual  Report  on Form 10-K of
            Mettler-Toledo AG, dated      Mettler-Toledo   Holding   Inc.
            as of October 7, 1996         dated March 31, 1997 and
                                          incorporated  herein by
                                          reference

     10.7   Mettler Toledo Performance -  Filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the
            Oriented Bonus System         Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            (POBS), effective as of       Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc. dated
            1993                          March 31, 1997 and
                                          incorporated herein by reference

     10.8   Mettler Toledo POBS Plus -    Filed  as  Exhibit  10.8 to the
            Incentive Scheme for Senior   Annual  Report  on Form 10-K of
            Management of Mettler         of Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc.
            Toledo, dated as of           dated March 31, 1997 and 
            November 4, 1996              incorporated herein by reference
 
     10.9*  Credit Agreement, dated       Page 115 
            as of November 19, 
            1997, between Mettler-
            Toledo International Inc.,
            as Guarantor, Mettler-
            Toledo, Inc., Mettler-Toledo
            AG, as Borrowers, Safeline
            Holding Company as UK
            Borrower, Mettler-Toledo,
            Inc., as Canadian Borrower
            and Merrill Lynch & Co. as
            Arranger and Documentation
            Agent, and the Lenders
            thereto

     10.10* Agreement of Merger, dated    Page 322
            November 13, 1997, between
            MT Investors Inc. and 
            Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc.

     10.11  1997 Amended and Restated     Filed as  Exhibit  10.10 to the
            Stock Option Plan             Registration  Statement on Form
                                          S-1 of the  Company  (Reg.  No.
                                          333-35597)   and   incorporated
                                          herein by reference
 
     10.12  Form of Participants'         Filed as  Exhibit  10.11 to the
            Subscription Agreement        Registration    Statement,   as
                                          amended,  on  Form  S-1  of the
                                          Company  (Reg.  No.  333-35597)
                                          and   incorporated   herein  by
                                          reference

     10.13  Form of GMC Subscription      Filed as  Exhibit  10.12 to the
            Agreement                     Registration    Statement,   as
                                          amended, on  Form  S-1  of  the
                                          Company  (Reg.  No.  333-35597)
                                          and   incorporated   herein  by 
                                          reference

     11*    Statements regarding          Page 334
            computation of per share
            earnings

     21     Subsidiaries of the           Filed as Exhibit 21 to the
            Company                       Registration Statement, as
                                          amended, on Form S-1 of the
                                          Company (Reg. No. 333-35597)
                                          and incorporated herein by
                                          reference

     27.1*  Financial Data Schedule       Page 335

     99.1*  Factors Affecting Future      Page 336
            Operating Results


- - - ------------
           * Filed herewith



                       METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                        (FORMERLY "MT INVESTORS INC.")
                  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


                                                                           PAGE

Independent Auditors' Report...........................................     F-2

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1996 and 1997...........     F-3
    
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended
     December 31, 1995 and for the period January 1, 1996 to 
     October 14, 1996 and for the period October 15, 1996 to
     December 31, 1996 and for the year ended December 31, 1997........     F-4
    
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets / Shareholders'
     Equity for the year ended December 31, 1995 and for 
     the period January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996 and
     for the period October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996 and for
     the year ended December 31, 1997..................................     F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended
     December 31, 1995 and for the period January 1, 1996 to 
     October 14, 1996 and for the period October 15, 1996 to
     December 31, 1996 and for the year
     ended December 31, 1997...........................................     F-6
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.................                 F-7



                   INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Mettler-Toledo International Inc.


We  have  audited  the   accompanying   consolidated   balance   sheets  of
Mettler-Toledo  International  Inc.  (formerly  "MT  Investors  Inc.")  and
subsidiaries  (as  defined  in  Note  1  to  the   consolidated   financial
statements) as of December 31, 1996 and 1997, and the related  consolidated
statements of operations,  net assets / shareholders' equity and cash flows
for the year ended  December 31, 1995 and for the period January 1, 1996 to
October 14, 1996, the Predecessor  periods,  and for the period October 15,
1996 to December 31, 1996,  and for the year ended  December 31, 1997,  the
Successor  periods.   These  consolidated   financial  statements  are  the
responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to
express an opinion on these consolidated  financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted  our audits in accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards in the United States of America.  Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material  misstatement.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures
in  the  financial  statements.   An  audit  also  includes  assessing  the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion,  the consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial
position  of  Mettler-Toledo  International  Inc.  and  subsidiaries  as of
December  31,  1996  and  1997,  and  the  consolidated  results  of  their
operations  and their cash flows for the year ended  December  31, 1995 and
for the  period  January  1, 1996 to  October  14,  1996,  the  Predecessor
periods,  and for the period October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996, and for
the year ended December 31, 1997, the Successor periods, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.

As more fully described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements,
Mettler-Toledo  International Inc. acquired the Mettler-Toledo  Group as of
October 15, 1996 in a business combination  accounted for as a purchase. As
a result of the acquisition,  the consolidated financial statements for the
Successor  periods are presented on a different  basis of  accounting  than
that of the Predecessor periods, and therefore are not directly comparable.


KPMG FIDES PEAT


Zurich, Switzerland
February 6, 1998


                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                       (FORMERLY "MT INVESTORS INC.")
                        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                   (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)


                                                SUCCESSOR   SUCCESSOR
                                                ---------   ---------
                                                DECEMBER    DECEMBER
                                                  31,         31,
                                                 1996         1997
                                                ---------   ---------
                   ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................    $ 60,696   $ 23,566
  Trade accounts receivable, less allowances
    of $8,388 in 1996                       
    and $7,669 in 1997......................     151,161    153,619
  Inventories...............................     102,526    101,047
  Deferred taxes............................       7,565      7,584
  Other current assets and prepaid expenses.      17,268     24,066
                                                 -------    -------
    Total current assets....................     339,216    309,882
Property, plant and equipment, net..........     255,292    235,262
Excess of cost over net assets acquired, net
  of accumulated amortization               
  of $982 in 1996 and $6,427 in 1997........     135,490    183,318
Non-current deferred taxes..................       3,916      5,045
Other assets ...............................      37,974     15,806
                                                 -------     ------
   Total assets.............................    $771,888   $749,313
                                                ========   ========

   LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:
  Trade accounts payable....................    $ 32,797   $ 39,342
  Accrued and other liabilities.............      79,857     80,844
  Accrued compensation and related items....      35,457     43,214
  Taxes payable.............................      17,580     33,267
  Deferred taxes............................       9,132     10,486
  Short-term borrowings and current
    maturities of long-term debt............      80,446     56,430
                                                 -------    -------
    Total current liabilities.................   255,269    263,583
Long-term debt..............................     373,758    340,334
Non-current deferred taxes..................      30,467     25,437
Other non-current liabilities...............      96,810     91,011
                                                 -------    -------
   Total liabilities........................     756,304    720,365
Minority interest...........................       3,158      3,549
Shareholders' equity:
  Preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share;
    authorized 10,000,000 shares............        --        --
  Common stock, $0.01 par value per share;
    authorized 125,000,000 shares;
    issued 38,336,015 (excluding 64,467 shares     
    held in treasury) at
    December 31, 1997.......................        --          383
  Class A, B and C common stock, $0.01 par
    value per share; authorized               
    2,775,976 shares; issued 2,438,514 at
    December 31, 1996.......................          25        --
  Additional paid-in capital................     188,084    284,630
  Accumulated deficit ......................    (159,046)  (224,152)
  Currency translation adjustment...........     (16,637)   (35,462)
                                                 -------   --------
                                                      
  Total shareholders' equity ...............      12,426     25,399
Commitments and contingencies...............        --          --
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity .    $771,888   $749,313
                                                ========   ========

    See the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                    (FORMERLY "MT INVESTORS INC.")
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

                               PREDECESSOR            SUCCESSOR
                             -----------------   -----------------------
                                       FOR THE      FOR THE
                                       PERIOD       PERIOD
                            YEAR       JANUARY      OCTOBER      
                            ENDED      1, 1996      15, 1996    YEAR
                            DECEMBER   TO           TO          ENDED
                            31,        OCTOBER      DECEMBER    DECEMBER
                            1995       14, 1996     31, 1996    31, 1997
                           ----------- ------------ ----------- --------
Net sales...............    $850,415    $662,221   $186,912     $878,415
Cost of sales...........     508,089     395,239    136,820      493,480
                            --------    --------   ---------     -------
   Gross profit.........     342,326     266,982      50,092     384,935
Research and development      54,542      40,244       9,805      47,551
Selling, general and 
  administrative........     248,327     186,898      59,353     260,397
Amortization............       2,765       2,151       1,065       6,222
Purchased research and       
  development...........        --         --        114,070      29,959
Interest expense........      18,219      13,868       8,738      35,924
Other charges (income),      
  net...................      (9,331)     (1,332)     17,137      10,834
                            --------    --------   ---------    --------
   Earnings (loss)
     before taxes,           
     minority interest
     and extraordinary
     items..............      27,804      25,153    (160,076)     (5,952)
Provision for taxes.....       8,782      10,055        (938)     17,489
Minority interest.......         768         637         (92)        468
                            --------    --------   ---------    --------
   Net earnings (loss)
     before                  
     extraordinary items      18,254      14,461    (159,046)    (23,909)
Extraordinary items-debt
  extinguishments,          
  net of tax............        --         --         --         (41,197)
                            --------    --------   ---------    --------
   Net earnings (loss)..    $ 18,254    $ 14,461   $(159,046)   $(65,106)
                            ========    ========   =========    ========

Basic and diluted loss
per common share:
   Loss before          
   extraordinary items..                           $   (5.18)   $  (0.76)
   Extraordinary items..                              --           (1.30)
                                                   ---------    --------
   Net loss.............                           $   (5.18)   $  (2.06)
                                                   =========    ========

   Weighted average
     number of
     common shares......                          30,686,065  31,617,071


    See the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                    (FORMERLY "MT INVESTORS INC.")
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS / SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

                                            PREDECESSOR
                                   ------------------------------------------
                                   YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND FOR THE
                                   PERIOD JANUARY 1, 1996 TO OCTOBER 14, 1996
                                   ------------------------------------------
                                              CURRENCY
                                  CAPITAL     TRANSLATION
                                  EMPLOYED    ADJUSTMENT       TOTAL
                                  --------    -----------    --------

Net assets at December 31, 1994..$ 218,129   $ 10,065       $ 228,194
Capital transactions with Ciba    
  and affiliates.................  (73,779)       --          (73,779)
Net earnings.....................   18,254        --           18,254
Change in currency translation   
  adjustment.....................       --     20,585          20,585
                                 ---------   --------          ------
Net assets at December 31, 1995 .  162,604     30,650         193,254
Capital transactions with Ciba   
  and affiliates ................  (88,404)       --          (88,404)
Net earnings.....................   14,461        --           14,461
Change in currency translation   
  adjustment.....................       --     (6,538)         (6,538)
                                 ---------   --------       ---------
Net assets at October 14, 1996...$  88,661   $ 24,112       $ 112,773
                                 =========   ========       =========





         See the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements


                     METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                       (FORMERLY "MT INVESTORS INC.")
                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                               (IN THOUSANDS)

                                     PREDECESSOR            SUCCESSOR
                                -------------------    ------------------------

                                            FOR THE
                                            PERIOD     FOR THE
                               YEAR         JANUARY    PERIOD
                               ENDED        1, 1996    OCTOBER 15,
                               DECEMBER     TO         TO           YEAR ENDED
                               31,          OCTOBER    DECEMBER     DECEMBER 31,
                               1995         14, 1996   31, 1996     1997    
                               --------    ---------  ------------  ------------
Cash flows from operating
  activities:
  Net earnings (loss)........  $ 18,254    $  14,461     $(159,046)    $(65,106)
  Adjustments to reconcile
    net earnings (loss) to
    net cash provided by
    operating activities:
   Depreciation..............    30,598       19,512         7,925       25,613
   Amortization..............     2,765        2,151         1,065        6,222
   Write-off of purchased
     research and
     development and cost of   
     sales associated
     with revaluation of
     inventories.............      --          --          146,264       32,013
   Extraordinary items.......      --          --             --         41,197
   Net loss (gain) on        
     disposal of long-term
     assets..................    (1,053)        (768)         --             33
   Deferred taxes and        
     adjustments to goodwill.      (551)      (1,934)       (4,563)      (4,244)
   Minority interest.........       768          637           (92)         468
  Increase (decrease) in  
    cash resulting from
    changes in:
      Trade accounts         
        receivable, net......    (9,979)       9,569       (10,159)      (8,113)
      Inventories............      (607)       1,276         3,350       (2,740)
      Other current assets...    (3,058)      14,748       (10,605)      (7,177)
      Trade accounts payable.     1,437       (3,065)        3,415        4,936
      Accruals and other    
        liabilities, net....     13,095        5,948        32,030       32,547
                               --------    ---------     ---------     --------
        Net cash provided by
          operating           
          activities.........    51,669       62,535         9,584       55,649
                               --------    ---------     ---------     --------
Cash flows from investing
  activities:
  Proceeds from sale of
    property, plant and     
    equipment................     4,000        1,606           736       15,913
  Purchase of property,      
    plant and equipment......   (25,858)     (16,649)      (11,928)     (22,251)
  Acquisition of             
    Mettler-Toledo from Ciba.      --         --          (314,962)        --
  Acquisition, net of seller 
    financing................      --         --             --         (80,469)
  Other investing activities.    (7,484)      (1,632)        4,857       (9,184)
                               --------    ---------     ---------     --------
       Net cash used in
         investing            
         activities..........   (29,342)     (16,675)     (321,297)     (95,991)
                                 -------   ---------     ---------     --------
Cash flows from financing
  activities:
  Proceeds from borrowings...     3,983       --           414,170      614,245
  Repayments of borrowings...      --        (13,464)        --        (703,201)
  Proceeds from issuance of   
    common stock.............      --         --           188,108       97,573
  Purchase of treasury stock.      --         --             --            (669)
  Ciba and affiliates         
    borrowings (repayments)..   (15,693)     (26,589)     (184,666)        --
  Capital transactions with   
    Ciba and affiliates......   (37,361)      (7,716)      (80,687)        --
                               --------    ---------     ---------     --------
       Net cash provided by    
         (used in)              
         financing activities   (49,071)     (47,769)      336,925        7,948
Effect of exchange rate        --------    ---------     ---------     --------
  changes on cash and cash   
  equivalents................     4,344       (3,394)         (615)      (4,736)
                               --------    ---------     ---------     --------
Net increase (decrease) in
  cash and cash              
  equivalents................   (22,400)      (5,303)       24,597      (37,130)
                               --------    ---------     ---------     --------
Cash and cash equivalents:
  Beginning of period........    63,802       41,402        36,099       60,696
                               --------    ---------     ---------     --------
  End of period..............  $ 41,402    $  36,099     $  60,696     $ 23,566
                               ========    =========     =========     ========
Supplemental disclosures of
  cash flow information:
  Cash paid during the year
   for:
   Interest..................  $ 18,927    $   6,524     $  17,874     $ 38,345
   Taxes.....................     9,970        9,385         2,470        6,140
Non-cash financing and
  investing activities:
  Due to Ciba for capital
    transactions.............    36,418       --             --            --
  Seller financing on   
    acquisition..............      --         --             --          22,514

     See the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial
                            statements


1.    BUSINESS DESCRIPTION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    Mettler-Toledo  International Inc. ("Mettler Toledo," the "Company" or
"Successor"), formerly MT Investors Inc., is a global supplier of precision
instruments and is a manufacturer and marketer of weighing  instruments for
use in laboratory,  industrial and food retailing applications. The Company
also  manufactures  and sells certain  related  analytical and  measurement
technologies.   The  Company's  manufacturing  facilities  are  located  in
Switzerland,  the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom and China. The
Company's   principal   executive   offices  are  located  in   Greifensee,
Switzerland.

    The  Company  was  incorporated  by  AEA  Investors  Inc.  ("AEA")  and
recapitalized  to  effect  the  acquisition  (the   "Acquisition")  of  the
Mettler-Toledo  Group  ("Predecessor")  from Ciba-Geigy AG ("Ciba") and its
wholly owned subsidiary,  AG fur  Prazisionsinstrumente  ("AGP") on October
15,  1996.  The  Company  acquired  the   Mettler-Toledo   Group  for  cash
consideration of SFr. 504,996 (approximately  $402,000) including dividends
of SFr.  109,406  (approximately  $87,100)  which  were paid to Ciba by the
Company in  conjunction  with the  Acquisition.  In  addition,  the Company
incurred  expenses in connection with the Acquisition and related financing
of  approximately  $29,000,  including  approximately  $5,500  paid  to AEA
Investors,  and paid  approximately  $185,000 to settle amounts due to Ciba
and  affiliates.  The Company has accounted for the  Acquisition  using the
purchase  method of accounting.  Accordingly,  the costs of the Acquisition
were allocated to the assets  acquired and  liabilities  assumed based upon
their respective fair values.

    In connection with the Acquisition,  the Company allocated,  based upon
independent  valuations,  $114,070  of  the  purchase  price  to  purchased
research and development in process. Such amount was recorded as an expense
in the period from October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996. Additionally, the
Company  allocated  approximately  $32,200 of the purchase price to revalue
certain  inventories  (principally  work-in-process  and finished goods) to
fair value (net realizable  value).  Substantially  all of such inventories
were sold during the period from October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996. The
excess of the cost of the Acquisition over the fair value of the net assets
acquired  of  approximately  $137,500  is being  amortized  over 32  years.
Because of this  purchase  price  allocation,  the  accompanying  financial
statements  of the  Successor  are not directly  comparable to those of the
Predecessor.

    The consolidated  financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  in the United  States of
America  and  include  all  entities  in which  the  Company  has  control,
including its majority owned  subsidiaries.  All intercompany  transactions
and balances  have been  eliminated.  Investments  in which the Company has
voting  rights  between 20% to 50% are  generally  accounted  for using the
equity method of accounting.  Certain amounts in the prior period financial
statements   have  been   reclassified   to  conform   with   current  year
presentation.

    The  combined  financial  statements  of the  Predecessor  include  the
combined   historical  assets  and  liabilities  and  combined  results  of
operations of the  Mettler-Toledo  Group. All intergroup  transactions have
been eliminated as part of the combination process.

    The  preparation of financial  statements  requires  management to make
estimates and  assumptions  that affect the reported  amounts of assets and
liabilities,  as well as disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at
the date of the financial  statements and the reported  amounts of revenues
and expenses  during the reporting  period.  Actual results may differ from
those estimates.


2.    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    Cash and Cash Equivalents

     Cash and cash equivalents  include highly liquid investments with
original maturity dates of three months or less.

    Inventories

    Inventories  are  valued at the lower of cost or  market.  Cost,  which
includes direct materials,  labor and overhead plus indirect  overhead,  is
determined  using the first in,  first out (FIFO) or weighted  average cost
methods and to a lesser extent the last in, first out (LIFO) method.

    Property, Plant and Equipment

    Property,  plant and  equipment  are  stated  at cost less  accumulated
depreciation.  Depreciation  is charged  on a straight  line basis over the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:


           Buildings and improvements     15 to 50 years
           Machinery and equipment        3 to 12 years
           Computer software              3 to 5 years
           Leasehold improvements         Shorter of useful life
                                          or lease term

    Beginning  January 1, 1996 the Company  adopted  Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 121 ("SFAS 121"),  "Accounting for the Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of." SFAS 121
requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable  intangibles to be
held and used by an entity be reviewed for  impairment  whenever  events or
changes in circumstances  indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
not be recoverable.  In addition,  SFAS 121 requires that long-lived assets
and certain  identifiable  intangibles to be disposed of be reported at the
lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.  Adoption of SFAS
121 had no material effect on the consolidated financial statements.

    Excess of Cost over Net Assets Acquired

    The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired
is  amortized  on a  straight-line  basis  over the  expected  period to be
benefited.  The  Company  assesses  the  recoverability  of such  amount by
determining whether the amortization of the balance over its remaining life
can be recovered from the  undiscounted  future operating cash flows of the
acquired operation. The amount of impairment,  if any, is measured based on
projected  discounted  future  operating  cash flows using a discount  rate
reflecting  the  Company's  average cost of funds.  The  assessment  of the
recoverability  of the  excess of cost  over net  assets  acquired  will be
impacted if estimated future operating cash flows are not achieved.

    Deferred Financing Costs

    Debt  financing  costs are deferred and amortized  over the life of the
underlying indebtedness using the interest method.

    Taxation

    The  Company  files  tax  returns  in each  jurisdiction  in  which  it
operates.  Prior  to the  Acquisition  discussed  in  Note  1,  in  certain
jurisdictions  the Company  filed its tax returns  jointly  with other Ciba
subsidiaries.  The Company had a tax sharing arrangement with Ciba in these
countries to share the tax burden or benefits. Such arrangement resulted in
each  company's tax burden or benefit  equating to that which it would have
incurred or received if it had been filing a separate tax return.

    Deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are recognized for the future tax
consequences  attributable to differences  between the financial  statement
carrying  amounts of existing assets and  liabilities and their  respective
tax bases and  operating  loss and tax credit  carryforwards.  Deferred tax
assets  and  liabilities  are  measured  using  enacted  tax  rates  in the
respective jurisdictions in which the Company operates that are expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which those  temporary  differences
are expected to be recovered or settled.  In assessing the realizability of
deferred tax assets,  management  considers  whether it is more likely than
not  that  some  portion  or all of the  deferred  tax  assets  will not be
realized.

    Generally,  deferred taxes are not provided on the unremitted  earnings
of  subsidiaries  outside of the United States  because it is expected that
these earnings are  permanently  reinvested and such  determination  is not
practicable.  Such earnings may become taxable upon the sale or liquidation
of these  subsidiaries or upon the remittance of dividends.  Deferred taxes
are provided in situations  where the Company's  subsidiaries  plan to make
future dividend distributions.

    Research and Development

    Research and development  costs are expensed as incurred.  Research and
development  costs,   including  customer   engineering  (which  represents
research and development charged to customers and, accordingly, is included
in cost of sales), amounted to approximately $62,400,  $45,100, $11,100 and
$50,200 for the year ended  December 31, 1995,  for the period from January
1, 1996 to October  14,  1996,  for the period  from  October  15,  1996 to
December 31, 1996 and for the year ended December 31, 1997, respectively.

    Currency Translation and Transactions

    The reporting currency for the consolidated financial statements of the
Company is the United States dollar (USD). The functional  currency for the
Company's   operations  is  generally  the   applicable   local   currency.
Accordingly,  the assets and  liabilities  of  companies  whose  functional
currency  is  other  than  the USD are  included  in the  consolidation  by
translating the assets and liabilities  into the reporting  currency at the
exchange rates  applicable at the end of the reporting year. The statements
of operations and cash flows of such non-USD functional currency operations
are  translated  at the monthly  average  exchange  rates  during the year.
Translation gains or losses are accumulated as a separate  component of net
assets/shareholders' equity.

    The Company has  designated  certain of its Swiss franc debt as a hedge
of its net investments. Any gains and losses due to changes on the debt are
recorded to currency translation  adjustment and offset the net investments
which they hedge.

    Derivative Financial Instruments

    The Company has only  limited  involvement  with  derivative  financial
instruments and does not use them for trading purposes.  The Company enters
into foreign  currency forward  contracts to hedge short-term  intercompany
transactions  with  its  foreign  businesses.   Such  contracts  limit  the
Company's exposure to both favorable and unfavorable currency fluctuations.
These  contracts  are adjusted to reflect  market values as of each balance
sheet date, with the resulting unrealized gains and losses being recognized
in other charges (income), net.

    The Company enters into certain  interest rate cap and swap  agreements
in order  to  reduce  its  exposure  to  changes  in  interest  rates.  The
differential   paid  or  received  on  interest  rate  swap  agreements  is
recognized over the life of the agreements.  Realized and unrealized  gains
on interest rate cap  agreements  are recognized as adjustments to interest
expense as incurred.

    Stock Based Compensation

    The  Company  applies  Accounting   Principles  Board  Opinion  No.  25
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and related  interpretations  in
accounting for its stock option plan.

    Loss per Common Share

    Effective  December  31,  1997,  the Company  adopted the  Statement of
Financial  Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share" ("SFAS 128").
Accordingly,  basic and diluted  loss per common share data for each period
presented  have been  determined in accordance  with the provisions of SFAS
128.  Outstanding  options to purchase shares of common stock, as described
in Note 11, were not included in the computation of diluted loss per common
share for the periods  ended  December 31, 1996 and 1997,  as the effect is
antidilutive.  The Company  retroactively  adjusted  its  weighted  average
common  shares  for the  purpose of the basic and  diluted  loss per common
share  computations  for the 1996 and 1997 periods pursuant to SFAS 128 and
Securities and Exchange  Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 98 issued
in February 1998.

    Concentration of Credit Risk

    The Company's  revenue base is widely  diversified by geographic region
and by individual  customer.  The  Company's  products are utilized in many
different  industries,  although  extensively  in  the  pharmaceutical  and
chemical industries. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
customers' financial condition and, generally,  requires no collateral from
its customers.

    Revenue Recognition

    Revenue  is  recognized  when  title to a product  has  transferred  or
services have been rendered. Revenues from service contracts are recognized
over the contract period.

3.    BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

    On May 30, 1997, the Company  purchased the entire issued share capital
of Safeline Limited ("Safeline"), a manufacturer of metal detection systems
based in Manchester in the United Kingdom, for approximately  (pound)61,000
(approximately   $100,000),   plus   up  to  an   additional   (pound)6,000
(approximately $10,000) for a contingent earn-out payment. In October 1997,
the  Company  made  an  additional  payment,  representing  a  post-closing
adjustment,  of (pound)1,900  (approximately  $3,100). Such amount has been
accounted  for  as  additional  purchase  price.  Under  the  terms  of the
agreement  the  Company  paid  approximately  (pound)47,300  (approximately
$77,400) of the purchase  price in cash,  provided by amounts  loaned under
its  Credit   Agreement,   with  the  remaining  balance  of  approximately
(pound)13,700 (approximately $22,400) paid in the form of seller loan notes
which mature May 30, 1999. In connection  with the  acquisition the Company
incurred expenses of approximately  $2,200 which have been accounted for as
part of the purchase price.

    The Company has accounted for the acquisition using the purchase method
of accounting.  Accordingly, the costs of the acquisition were allocated to
the assets  acquired and  liabilities  assumed based upon their  respective
fair values.  Approximately $30,000 of the purchase price was attributed to
purchased  research and  development  in process.  Such amount was expensed
immediately in the second quarter of 1997. The technological feasibility of
the products being developed had not been established as of the date of the
acquisition.  The  Company  expects  that  the  projects  underlying  these
research and development  efforts will be  substantially  complete over the
next two years. In addition, the Company allocated  approximately $2,100 of
the purchase price to revalue  certain  finished goods  inventories to fair
value.  Substantially  all of such  inventories  were  sold  in the  second
quarter of 1997.  The excess of the cost of the  acquisition  over the fair
value  of the  net  assets  acquired  of  approximately  $65,000  is  being
amortized  over 30 years.  The  results  of  operations  and cash  flows of
Safeline have been  consolidated with those of the Company from the date of
the acquisition.

    The following  unaudited pro forma  summary  presents the  consolidated
results of operations of the Company as if the Acquisition (see Note 1) and
Safeline  acquisition had been completed as of the beginning of each of the
periods presented,  after giving effect to certain  adjustments,  including
Safeline's  historical results of operations prior to the acquisition date,
depreciation  and amortization of the assets acquired based upon their fair
values,  increased  interest expense from the financing of the acquisitions
and income tax  effects.  The Company  allocated a portion of the  purchase
prices to (i)  in-process  research  and  development  projects,  that have
economic value and (ii) the revaluation of inventories.  These  adjustments
have not been  reflected in the  following  pro forma  summary due to their
unusual  and  non-recurring   nature.  This  pro  forma  summary  does  not
necessarily  reflect the results of  operations  as they would have been if
the acquisitions had been completed as of the beginning of such periods and
is not  necessarily  indicative of the results which may be obtained in the
future.

                                  PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                                     PREDECESSOR            SUCCESSOR
                                    --------------   --------------------------
                                        FOR THE      FOR THE
                                        PERIOD       PERIOD
                                        JANUARY 1,   OCTOBER 15,
                                        1996 TO      1996 TO      YEAR ENDED
                                        OCTOBER      DECEMBER     DECEMBER
                                        14, 1996     31, 1996     31, 1997
                                        ---------- -------------  -------------

Net sales...........................      $694,231      $195,336    $897,448
Earnings (loss) before    
  extraordinary items...............           826        (2,128)      9,565
Net earnings (loss).................      $    826      $ (2,128)   $(31,632)
                                          ========      ========    ========
Basic and diluted loss per                              $  (0.07)   $  (1.00)
  common share......................                    ========    ========

4.    INVENTORIES

    Inventories consisted of the following:

                                                       Successor
                                                 --------------------------

                                                 December 31,  December 31,
                                                    1996           1997
                                                 -----------  ------------
Raw materials and parts.............              $   41,015     $  42,435
Work-in-progress....................                  31,534        29,746
Finished goods......................                  29,982        28,968
                                                  ----------     ---------
                                                     102,531       101,149
LIFO reserve........................                      (5)         (102)
                                                  ----------     ---------
                                                  $  102,526     $ 101,047
                                                  ==========     =========

    At December 31, 1996 and 1997,  13.2% and 12.7%,  respectively,  of the
Company's  inventories  (certain U.S. companies only) were valued using the
LIFO  method of  accounting.  There were no material  liquidations  of LIFO
inventories during the periods presented.

5.    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISKS

    At December 31, 1996, the Company had forward contracts maturing during
1997 to sell the equivalent of approximately $135,000 in various currencies
in  exchange  for  Swiss  francs.  These  contracts  were used to limit its
exposure to currency fluctuations on anticipated future cash flows.

    In July 1997,  the Company  entered into three year  interest  rate cap
agreements  to limit the impact of increases in interest  rates on its U.S.
dollar  based debt.  These  agreements  "cap" the effects of an increase in
three month LIBOR above 8.5%.  In  addition,  the Company has entered  into
three year interest rate swap agreements which swap the interest obligation
associated  with $100,000 of U.S. dollar based debt from variable to fixed.
The fixed rate associated with the swap is 6.09% plus the Company's  normal
interest  margin.  The swap is  effective  at three month LIBOR rates up to
7.00%.

    In August 1997,  the Company  entered into certain  three year interest
rate swap agreements that fix the interest obligation  associated with SFr.
112,500 of Swiss franc based debt at rates varying  between 2.17% and 2.49%
plus the Company's normal interest  margin.  The swaps are effective at one
month LIBOR rates up to 3.5%.

    The  Company  may  be  exposed  to  credit   losses  in  the  event  of
nonperformance by the counterparties to its derivative financial instrument
contracts.  Counterparties are established banks and financial institutions
with high credit  ratings.  The Company has no reason to believe  that such
counterparties  will not be able to fully satisfy their  obligations  under
these contracts.

    At  December  31,  1996  and  1997,  the fair  value of such  financial
instruments was approximately $(5,100) and $(1,064), respectively. The fair
values of all  derivative  financial  instruments  are  estimated  based on
current  settlement  prices of  comparable  contracts  obtained from dealer
quotes.  The values represent the estimated amount the Company would pay to
terminate the agreements at the reporting date, taking into account current
creditworthiness of the counterparties.


6.      PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

      Property,   plant  and  equipment,   net,  consisted  of  the
following:

                                                         Successor
                                                 --------------------------
                                                 December 31,  December 31, 
                                                   1996           1997
                                                 -----------  -------------
    Land....................................      $   63,514    $  58,226
    Buildings and leasehold                 
      improvements..........................         120,173      111,065
    Machinery and equipment.................          75,675       93,418
    Computer software.......................           3,067        3,948
                                                  ----------    ---------
    Less accumulated depreciation                    262,429      266,657
      and amortization......................          (7,137)     (31,395)
                                                  ----------    ---------
                                                  $  255,292    $ 235,262
                                                  ==========    =========


7.      OTHER ASSETS

    Other assets include deferred financing fees of $22,015 and $4,101, net
of accumulated  amortization of $820 and $76 at December 31, 1996 and 1997,
respectively.  During 1997, the Company wrote off deferred  financing costs
associated with its previous credit facilities and its Senior  Subordinated
Notes as further  discussed  in Note 9. Also  included in other  assets are
restricted  bank  deposits  of $5,960 and $1,756 at  December  31, 1996 and
1997,  respectively.  Other  assets  at  December  31,  1996 and 1997  also
included  a  loan  due  from  the  Company's  Chief  Executive  Officer  of
approximately  $740.  Such loan bears an interest rate of 5% and is payable
upon demand, which may not be made until 2003.


8.      SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND CURRENT MATURITIES OF LONG-TERM DEBT

    Short-term   borrowings  and  current   maturities  of  long-term  debt
consisted of the following:

                                                         Successor
                                                 --------------------------
                                                 December 31,  December 31, 
                                                   1996           1997
                                                 -----------  -------------
     Current maturities of long-term debt...      $    8,968    $  14,915
     Borrowings under revolving credit      
       facility.............................          51,928       33,320
     Other short-term borrowings............          19,550        8,195
                                                  ----------    ---------
                                                  $   80,446    $  56,430
                                                  ==========    =========


9.      LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consisted of the following:


                                                         Successor
                                                 --------------------------
                                                 December 31,  December 31, 
                                                   1996           1997
                                                 -----------  ------------  
9.75% Senior Subordinated Notes due         
October 1, 2006.............................       $ 135,000     $     --
Credit Agreement:
  Term A USD Loans, interest at LIBOR plus
   1.125% (7.03% at December 31, 1997)
   payable in quarterly installments 
   beginning March 31, 1998 due May 19,
   2004.....................................              --       101,573
  Term A SFr. Loans, interest at LIBOR
   plus 1.125% (2.57% at December 31,
   1997) payable in quarterly installments
   beginning March 31, 1998 due May 19,
   2004.....................................              --        58,991
  Term A GBP Loans, interest at LIBOR plus
   1.125% (8.71% at December 31, 1997)     
   payable in quarterly installments
   beginning March 31, 1998 due May 19,
   2004.....................................              --        36,198
  Seller Notes, interest at LIBOR plus
   0.26% (7.84% at December 31, 1997) due                      
   in full May 30, 1999.....................              --        22,946
  Term A SFr. Loans, interest at LIBOR
   plus 2.5% (4.38% at December 31, 1996)
   payable in quarterly installments    
   beginning March 31, 1997 due December
   31, 2002.................................          92,730           --
  Term B USD Loans, interest at LIBOR plus
   3.00% (8.53% at December 31, 1996)
   payable in quarterly installments    
   beginning March 31, 1997 due December
   31, 2003.................................          75,000           --
  Term C USD Loans, interest at LIBOR plus
   3.25% (8.78% at December 31, 1996)
   payable in quarterly installments     
   beginning March 31, 1997 due December
   31, 2004.................................          72,000           --
  Revolving credit facilities...............          51,928       160,862
Other.......................................          27,546        16,194
                                                   ---------     ---------
                                                     454,204       396,764
Less current maturities.....................          80,446        56,430
                                                   ---------     ---------
                                                   $ 373,758     $ 340,334
                                                   =========     =========

    To provide a portion of the financing  required for the Acquisition and
for working  capital  and for general  corporate  purposes  thereafter,  in
October 1996 Mettler-Toledo  Holding Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company, entered into a credit agreement with various banks.

    At December 31, 1996,  loans under the credit  agreement  consisted of:
(i) Term A Loans in an aggregate  principal amount of SFr. 125,000 ($92,730
at December 31, 1996),  (ii) Term B Loans in an aggregate  principal amount
of $75,000,  (iii) Term C loans in an aggregate principal amount of $72,000
and  (iv)  a  multi-currency  revolving  credit  facility  in an  aggregate
principal amount of $140,000, which included letter of credit and swingline
subfacilities available to certain subsidiaries.

    On May 29, 1997, the Company  refinanced its previous  credit  facility
and entered into a new credit facility.  This credit facility  provided for
term loan  borrowings  in an aggregate  principal  amount of  approximately
$133,800,  SFr.  171,500 and  (pound)26,700,  that were scheduled to mature
between  2002  and  2004,  a  Canadian   revolving   credit  facility  with
availability of CDN $26,300 and a multi-currency  revolving credit facility
with  availability  of  $151,000.  The  revolving  credit  facilities  were
scheduled to mature in 2002. The Company recorded an extraordinary  loss of
approximately $9,600 representing a charge for the write-off of capitalized
debt  issuance  fees and related  expenses  associated  with the  Company's
previous credit facility.

    On November 19, 1997, in connection  with the initial public  offering,
the Company  refinanced its existing credit facility by entering into a new
credit   facility   (the  "Credit   Agreement")   with  certain   financial
institutions.  At  December  31,  1997,  loans  under the Credit  Agreement
consisted of: (i) Term A Loans in aggregate  principle  amount of $101,573,
SFr.  85,467 ($58,991 at December 31, 1997) and  (pound)21,661  ($36,198 at
December  31,  1997);  (ii)  a  Canadian  revolving  credit  facility  with
availability  of CDN $26,300 and (iii) a  multi-currency  revolving  credit
facility in an aggregate  principle amount of $400,000 including a $100,000
acquisition facility.

    Concurrent  with the  initial  public  offering  and  refinancing,  the
Company  consummated a tender offer to repurchase  the Senior  Subordinated
Notes. The aggregate purchase price in connection with the tender offer was
approximately  $152,500.  In connection  with the  refinancing and the note
repurchase,   the  Company  recorded  an  extraordinary   loss  of  $31,600
representing  primarily  the  premium  paid in  connection  with the  early
extinguishment  of the notes of $17,900 and the  write-off  of  capitalized
debt issuance fees  associated with the Senior  Subordinated  Notes and the
Company's previous credit facility.

    The Company's  weighted  average interest rate at December 31, 1997 was
approximately 6.3%.

    Loans under the Credit  Agreement may be repaid and  reborrowed and are
due in full on May 19, 2004.  The Company is required to pay a facility fee
based  upon  certain  financial  ratios  per  annum  on the  amount  of the
revolving  facility and letter of credit fees on the aggregate  face amount
of letters of credit  under the  revolving  facility.  The  facility fee at
December 31, 1997 was equal to 0.3%. At December 31, 1997,  the Company had
available approximately $220,000 of additional borrowing capacity under its
Credit  Agreement.  The Company has the ability to refinance its short-term
borrowings  through its  revolving  facility  for an  uninterrupted  period
extending  beyond  one year.  Accordingly,  approximately  $128,000  of the
Company's short-term borrowings at December 31, 1997 have been reclassified
to  long-term.  At  December  31,  1997,  borrowings  under  the  Company's
revolving facility carried an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.825%.

    The Credit Agreement contains covenants that, among other things, limit
the  Company's  ability to incur liens;  merge,  consolidate  or dispose of
assets; make loans and investments;  incur indebtedness;  engage in certain
transactions with affiliates;  incur certain  contingent  obligations;  pay
dividends and other  distributions;  or make certain capital  expenditures.
The Credit  Agreement  also  requires the Company to maintain a minimum net
worth and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, and to maintain a ratio of
total debt to EBITDA below a specified maximum.

    The aggregate  maturities of long-term  obligations  during each of the
years 1999 through 2002 are  approximately  $42,748,  $32,691,  $34,531 and
$34,531, respectively.

    The estimated fair value of the Company's  obligations under the Credit
Agreement  approximate  fair value due to the  variable  rate nature of the
obligations.

10.     SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     Common Stock

    At December  31,  1996,  the  authorized  capital  stock of the Company
consisted  of  2,775,976  shares of common  stock,  $.01 par value of which
2,233,117 shares were designated as Class A common stock, 1,000 shares were
designated  as Class B common stock and 541,859  shares were  designated as
Class C common stock. All general voting power was vested in the holders of
the Class B common stock. At December 31, 1996, the Company had outstanding
1,899,779  shares of Class A common  stock,  1,000 shares of Class B common
stock and 537,735 shares of Class C common stock.

    In November 1997, pursuant to a merger with its wholly owned subsidiary
Mettler-Toledo  Holding Inc., each share of the Company's existing Class A,
Class B and Class C common stock  converted into 12.58392  shares of common
stock and increased the number of authorized  shares to 125,000,000  shares
with a par value of $0.01 per  share.  Concurrent  therewith,  the  Company
completed an underwritten  initial public offering of 7,666,667 shares at a
public  offering  price of $14.00  per  share.  The net  proceeds  from the
offerings  of  approximately  $97,300  were used to repay a portion  of the
Company's  9.75%  Senior  Subordinated  Notes  (see Note 9). As part of the
offering the Company sold approximately  287,000 shares of its common stock
to Company sponsored benefit plans at the public offering price. Holders of
the Company's common stock are entitled to one vote per share.

    At December 31, 1997,  6,368,445  shares of the Company's  common stock
were reserved for the Company's stock option plan.

    Preferred Stock

    The Board of Directors,  without further shareholder authorization,  is
authorized to issue up to 10,000,000  shares of preferred  stock, par value
$0.01 per share in one or more series and to determine  and fix the rights,
preferences  and privileges of each series,  including  dividend rights and
preferences  over  dividends  on the common stock and one or more series of
the preferred stock, conversion rights, voting rights (in addition to those
provided  by law),  redemption  rights  and the terms of any  sinking  fund
therefore,  and  rights  upon  liquidation,   dissolution  or  winding  up,
including  preferences  over the common stock and one or more series of the
preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the issuance
of  rights to  purchase  such  shares,  may have the  effect  of  delaying,
deferring  or  preventing  a  change  in  control  of  the  Company  or  an
unsolicited acquisition proposal.



11.     STOCK OPTION PLAN

     Effective October 15, 1996, the Company adopted a stock option plan to
provide certain key employees  and/or  directors of the Company  additional
incentive to join and/or remain in the service of the Company as well as to
maintain and enhance the long-term  performance  and  profitability  of the
Company.

     Under the terms of the plan, options granted shall be nonqualified and
the exercise  price shall not be less than 100% of the fair market value of
the common  stock on the date of grant.  Options  vest  equally over a five
year period from the date of grant.

     Stock option activity is shown below:

                                                               Weighted-Average
                                          Number of Shares      Exercise Price
                                          ------------------   ----------------
Granted during the period October
  15, 1996 to December 31, 1996.........       3,510,747        $   7.95
Exercised...............................              --              --
Forfeited...............................              --              --
                                               ---------        --------
Outstanding at December 31, 1996........       3,510,747        $   7.95
Granted.................................       1,028,992           14.68
Exercised...............................              --              --
Forfeited...............................        (130,999)          (7.95)
                                               ---------        --------
Outstanding at December 31, 1997........       4,408,740        $   9.75
                                               =========        ========
Shares exercisable at December          
  31, 1997..............................         675,950        $   7.95
                                               =========        ========

    At  December  31,  1997,  there  were  3,537,047  and  871,693  options
outstanding  to purchase  shares of common  stock with  exercise  prices of
$7.95 and $15.89, respectively.  The weighted-average remaining contractual
life of such options was 8.7 and 9.7 years, respectively.

    As of the date granted, the  weighted-average  grant-date fair value of
the options granted during the period from October 15, 1996 to December 31,
1996 and for the year ended December 31, 1997 was  approximately  $1.99 and
$3.37 per share, respectively.  Such weighted-average grant-date fair value
was  determined  using an  option  pricing  model  which  incorporated  the
following assumptions:


                                                         Successor
                                        ----------------------------------------
                                           For the period
                                          October 15, 1996        Year ended
                                        to December 31, 1996   December 31, 1997
                                        --------------------   ----------------
Risk-free interest rate..............            4.0%                5.4%
Expected life, in years..............              7                   4
Expected volatility..................             --                  26%
Expected dividend yield..............             --                  --


    The  Company  applies  Accounting  Standards  Board  Opinion No. 25 and
related  interpretations in accounting for its plans. Had compensation cost
for the Company stock option plan been determined based upon the fair value
of such awards at the grant date,  consistent with the methods of Statement
of  Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 123  "Accounting  for Stock Based
Compensation"  ("SFAS  123"),  the Company's net loss and basic and diluted
net loss per common  share for the twelve  months  ended  December 31, 1997
would have been as follows:

       Net loss:
         As reported                                    $  (65,106)
         Pro forma                                         (66,417)
                                                        ==========
       Basic and diluted loss per common share:
         As reported                                    $    (2.06)
         Pro forma                                           (2.10)
                                                        ==========

    The Company's net loss for the period  October 15, 1996 to December 31,
1996 would not have been materially  different had  compensation  cost been
determined consistent with SFAS 123.

12.     BENEFIT PLANS

    Mettler-Toledo  maintains a number of retirement  plans for the benefit
of its employees.

    Certain  companies  sponsor defined  contribution  plans.  Benefits are
determined  and  funded  annually  based  upon  the  terms  of  the  plans.
Contributions  under these plans  amounted  to $9,413,  $9,484,  $2,496 and
$8,925 in 1995, for the period January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996, for the
period  October  15,  1996 to  December  31,  1996 and for the  year  ended
December 31, 1997, respectively.

    Certain companies sponsor defined benefit plans.  Benefits are provided
to  employees   primarily  based  upon  years  of  service  and  employees'
compensation  for certain periods during the last years of employment.  The
following table sets forth the funded status and amounts  recognized in the
consolidated  financial  statements  for the  Company's  principal  defined
benefit plans at December 31, 1996 and 1997:

                                                 Successor
                          -----------------------------------------------------
                                  December 31,                 December 31,
                                    1996                           1997
                          ------------------------------   ---------------------
                               Assets        Accumulated   Assets    Accumulated
                               exceed         benefits     exceed      benefits
                             accumulated       exceed     accumulated   exceed
                               benefits        assets      benefits     assets
                             -----------     -----------  ---------- -----------
Actuarial present
  value of
  accumulated benefit
     obligations:
   Vested benefits.......     $ 10,211       $  97,639     $ 11,712    $  98,974
   Non-vested             
   benefits..............           16           2,280           20        3,574
                              --------       ---------     --------    ---------
                                10,227          99,919       11,732      102,548
Projected benefit             --------       ---------     --------    ---------
  obligations............       12,458         108,504       13,350      111,608
Plan assets at fair  
  value..................       13,336          50,609       14,899       58,176
                              --------       ---------     --------    ---------
Projected benefit
 obligations in 
 excess of (less
 than) plan assets.......         (878)         57,895       (1,549)      53,432
Unrecognized net         
 (losses) gains..........           22           1,479          544          561
(Prepaid) accrued             --------       ---------     --------    ---------
  pension costs..........     $   (856)      $  59,374     $ (1,005)   $  53,993
                              ========       =========     ========    =========

    The (prepaid)  accrued pension costs are recognized in the accompanying
consolidated  financial statements as other long-term assets and other long
term liabilities, respectively.

    The assumed discount rates and rates of increase in future compensation
level used in calculating the projected benefit  obligations vary according
to the economic conditions of the country in which the retirement plans are
situated.   The  range  of  rates  used  for  the  purposes  of  the  above
calculations are as follows:

                                                   1996             1997
                                               ------------     ------------
Discount rate.......................           6.0% to 8.5%     6.0% to 8.5%
Compensation increase rate..........           2.0% to 6.5%     2.0% to 6.5%

    The expected  long term rates of return on plan assets  ranged  between
9.5% and  10.0% for  1995,  7.0% and  10.0% for 1996,  and 6.0% and 9.5% in
1997. The assumptions used above have a significant  effect on the reported
amounts of projected benefit obligations and net periodic pension cost. For
example,  increasing  the  assumed  discount  rate would have the effect of
decreasing the projected benefit obligation and increasing unrecognized net
gains. Increasing the assumed compensation increase rate would increase the
projected   benefit   obligation  and  decrease   unrecognized  net  gains.
Increasing  the  expected  long-term  rate of return on  investments  would
decrease unrecognized net gains.

    Plan assets  relate  principally  to the Company's  U.S.  companies and
consist of equity  investments,  obligations of the U.S.  Treasury or other
governmental agencies, and other interest-bearing investments.

    Net  periodic  pension  cost for all of the plans  above  includes  the
following components:

                                        Predecessor            Successor
                                    --------------------  ----------------------
                                               For the
                                               period     For the       
                                    Year       January    period        Year
                                    ended      1, 1996    October 15,   ended
                                    December   to         1996 to       December
                                    31,        October    December      31,
                                    1995       14, 1996   31, 1996      1997
                                    -------  ----------  ------------  ---------
Service cost
 (benefits earned    
  during
  the period).............          $ 3,668  $    3,850  $     1,013  $   5,655
Interest cost on
  projected benefit                   7,561       6,540        1,721      8,020
  obligations.............
Actual gain on plan      
  assets..................           (8,653)     (6,079)      (1,600)    (8,543)
Net amortization and    
  deferral................            5,137       2,485           --      2,516
                                    -------  ----------  -----------  ---------
Net periodic pension 
  expense.................          $ 7,713  $    6,796  $     1,134  $   7,648
                                    =======  ==========  ===========  ==========

    The Company's U.S. operations provide  postretirement  medical benefits
to their employees. Employee contributions for medical benefits are related
to employee years of service.

    The  following  table sets forth the status of the U.S.  postretirement
plans and amounts:

                                                          Successor
                                                    --------------------
                                                    December  December
                                                    31, 1996  31, 1997
                                                    -------- -----------
 Accumulated postretirement benefit
   obligations:
   Retired........................                  $ 25,894  $ 26,702
   Fully eligible.................                     3,033     4,154
   Other..........................                     3,098     5,256
                                                    --------  --------
                                                      32,025    36,112
 Unrecognized net loss............                      (540)   (4,465)
                                                    --------  --------
 Accrued postretirement 
   benefit cost...................                  $ 31,485  $ 31,647
                                                    ========  ========
  
    Net periodic  postretirement  benefit cost for the above plans includes
the following components:

                            Predecessor            Successor
                        --------------------  ----------------------
                                  For the
                                  period      For the       
                                  January     period        
                        Year      1, 1996     October 15,   Year
                        ended     to          1996 to       ended
                        December  October     December      December
                        31, 1995  14, 1996    31, 1996      31, 1997
                        --------  ---------   -----------   --------
Service cost (benefits
  earned during          
  the period).........   $  285    $   431      $   114     $    440
Interest cost on
  projected benefit
  obligations.........    2,371      1,795          472        2,296
Net amortization and  
deferral..............       99        343           --           33
                         ------    -------      -------     --------
Net periodic                                                        
  postretirement      
  benefit cost........   $2,755    $ 2,569      $   586     $  2,769
                         ======    =======      =======     ========

      The  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligation and net
periodic  postretirement  benefit cost were principally  determined
using  discount  rates of 7.3% in  1995,  7.6% in 1996 and 7.0 % in
1997 and health care cost trend rates  ranging  from 9.5% to 12.25%
in 1995, 1996 and 1997 decreasing to 5.0% in 2006.

      The health care cost trend rate  assumption has a significant
effect on the  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligation and
net periodic  postretirement  benefit  cost.  For example,  in 1997
the  effect  of a  one-percentage-point  increase  in  the  assumed
health  care cost trend rate would be an  increase of $3,611 on the
accumulated  postretirement  benefit obligations and an increase of
$464 on the aggregate of the service and interest  cost  components
of the net periodic benefit cost.


13.     TAXES

    The sources of the Company's  earnings  (loss)  before taxes,  minority
interest and extraordinary items were as follows:

                                                  Predecessor
                                        -------------------------------
                                        Year ended   For the Period
                                        December     January 1, 1996 to
                                        31, 1995     October 14, 1996
                                        --------  ---------------------

Switzerland..........................   $ 11,431       $   21,241
Non-Switzerland......................     16,373            3,912
                                        --------       ----------
Earnings before taxes, minority 
  interest and extraordinary items...   $ 27,804       $   25,153
                                        ========       ==========




                                                  Successor
                                        ---------------------------------
                                        For the Period         Year ended
                                        October 15, 1996 to    December     
                                        December 31, 1996      31, 1997
                                        --------------------   ----------

United States........................      $  (37,293)         $  (14,178)
Non-United States....................        (122,783)              8,226
                                           ----------          ----------
Loss before taxes, minority interest
 and extraordinary items.............      $ (160,076)         $   (5,952)
                                           ==========          ==========


      The provision (benefit) for taxes consists of:


                                                     Adjustments
                                                       to
                                  Current   Deferred Goodwill      Total
                                  -------  --------- -----------   -----
  Predecessor:                                                        
  Year ended December 31, 1995:
   Switzerland Federal........... $   513  $    (92)  $   --    $    421
   Switzerland Canton (State)
     and Local...................     481      (505)      --         (24)
   Non-Switzerland...............   8,339        46       --       8,385
                                  -------  --------   ------       -----
                                  $ 9,333  $   (551)  $   --    $  8,782
                                  =======  ========   ======    ========
  For the period January 1,
  1996 to October 14, 1996:
   Switzerland Federal........... $ 2,152  $   (172)  $   --    $  1,980
   Switzerland Canton (State)
     and Local...................   4,305      (344)      --       3,961
   Non-Switzerland...............   5,532    (1,418)      --       4,114
                                  -------  --------   ------    --------
                                  $11,989  $ (1,934)  $   --    $ 10,055
                                  =======  ========   ======    ========


                                                     Adjustments
                                                        to
                                  Current   Deferred Goodwill      Total
  Successor:                      -------  --------  -----------   -----
  For the period October
  15, 1996 to December 31,
  1996:
    United States Federal........ $   475  $ (1,556) $    --    $ (1,081)
    United States State and      
      Local......................     696      (183)      --         513
    Non-United States............   2,454    (2,824)      --        (370)
                                  -------  --------  -------    --------
                                  $ 3,625  $ (4,563) $    --    $   (938)
                                  =======  ========  =======    ========


                                                     Adjustments
                                                        to
                                  Current   Deferred Goodwill      Total
                                  -------  --------- -----------   -----
  Year ended December 31,
  1997:
   United States Federal......... $    --  $   (351) $    --    $  (351)
   State and Local...............     466       (41)     107        532
   Non-United States.............  12,779     2,600    1,929     17,308
                                  -------  --------  -------    -------
                                  $13,245  $  2,208  $ 2,036    $17,489
                                  =======  ========  =======    =======

     The  adjustments to goodwill  during the year ending December 31,
1997 relate to tax benefits received on amounts which were included in
the purchase  price  allocation  pertaining to the  Acquisition of the
Company described in Note 1.

    The provision for tax expense for the year ended December 31, 1995
and for the  period  January  1, 1996 to  October  14,  1996 where the
Company  operated as a group of businesses owned by Ciba differed from
the amounts  computed by applying the  Switzerland  federal income tax
rate of 9.8% to  earnings  before  taxes and  minority  interest  as a
result of the following:

                                                   Predecessor
                                         -----------------------------------
                                         Year ended     For the Period
                                         December       January 1, 1996 to
                                         31, 1995       October 14, 1996
                                         ----------  -----------------------

Expected tax......................       $ 2,725        $    2,465
Switzerland Canton (state) and
  local income taxes,             
  net of federal income
  tax benefit.....................           (21)            3,573
Non-deductible intangible
  amortization....................           248               205
Change in valuation allowance.....         1,603             1,235
Non-Switzerland income taxes in   
  excess of 9.8%..................         4,968             2,291
Other, net........................          (741)              286
                                         -------        ----------
Total provision for taxes.........       $ 8,782        $   10,055
                                         =======        ==========


      The  provision  for tax  expense  (benefit)  for  the  period
October  15,  1996 to  December  31,  1996 and for the  year  ended
December  31,  1997,  subsequent  to the  Acquisition  described in
Note 1, differed  from the amounts  computed by applying the United
States  Federal  income tax rate of 35% to the loss  before  taxes,
minority  interest  and  extraordinary  items  as a  result  of the
following:

                                                 Successor
                                        ----------------------------
                                        For the Period
                                        October 15,     
                                        1996 to        Year ended
                                        December       December 31,
                                        31, 1996        1997
                                        --------     ---------------
Expected tax......................      $(56,027)      $ (2,083)
United States state and local
  income taxes, net of federal
  income tax benefit..............           333            276
Non-deductible purchased research 
  and development.................        39,925         10,486
Non-deductible intangible         
  amortization....................           336          2,073
Change in valuation allowance.....         4,662            263
Non-United States income taxes at 
  other than a 35% rate...........        10,037          5,545
Other, net........................          (204)           929
                                        --------       --------
Total provision, for taxes........      $   (938)      $ 17,489
                                        ========       ========

    The  tax  effects  of  temporary  differences  that  give  rise to
significant  portions  of the  deferred  tax assets and  deferred  tax
liabilities are presented below:

                                              Successor
                                        ----------------------------
                                        December 31,    December 31,
                                            1996           1997
                                        ------------    ------------
Deferred tax assets:
Inventory.........................       $ 7,974        $ 7,552
  Accrued and other liabilities...         7,046          9,278
  Deferred loss on sale of        
    subsidiaries..................         7,907          7,907
  Accrued postretirement benefit  
    and pension costs.............        19,043         19,161
  Net operating loss
   carryforwards..................        15,817         27,345
  Other..........................            408            678
                                         -------        -------
Total deferred tax assets........         58,195         71,921
Less valuation allowance.........        (46,714)       (59,292)
                                         -------        -------
Total deferred tax assets less    
  valuation allowance............         11,481         12,629
Deferred tax liabilities:                -------        -------
  Inventory......................          5,618          6,177
  Property, plant and equipment..         31,123         24,081
  Other..........................          2,858          5,665
                                         -------        -------
Total deferred tax liabilities...         39,599         35,923
                                         -------        -------
Net deferred tax liability.......        $28,118        $23,294
                                         =======        =======

      The Company has established  valuation  allowances  primarily
for  net  operating   losses,   deferred  losses  on  the  sale  of
subsidiaries  as  well  as  postretirement  and  pension  costs  as
follows:

                                                 Successor
                                        -----------------------------
                                        December 31,     December 31,
                                            1996            1997
                                        ------------     ------------

Summary of valuation allowances:
  Cumulative net operating
    losses........................       $15,817        $27,345
  Deferred loss on sale of        
    subsidiaries..................         7,907          7,907
  Accrued postretirement and      
    pension benefit costs.........        18,122         17,104
  Other...........................         4,868          6,936
                                         -------        -------
Total valuation allowance.........       $46,714        $59,292
                                         =======        =======

    The total  valuation  allowances  relating to acquired  businesses
amount  to  $38,785  and  $35,524  at  December  31,  1996  and  1997,
respectively.  Future reductions of these valuation allowances will be
credited to goodwill.

     At  December  31,  1997,  the  Company  had  net  operating  loss
carryforwards  for income tax purposes of (i) $45,939  related to U.S.
Federal  net  operating  losses of which  $4,376  expires  in 2011 and
$41,563  expires  in 2012,  (ii)  $51,832  related  to U.S.  State net
operating  losses which expire in varying amounts through 2012,  (iii)
$15,595  related to foreign net  operating  losses with no  expiration
date and (iv) $14,205  related to foreign net  operating  losses which
expire in varying amounts through 2003.


14.     OTHER CHARGES (INCOME), NET

    Other charges (income), net consists primarily of foreign currency
transactions,  interest  income and charges  related to the  Company's
restructuring  programs.  Foreign currency  transactions,  net for the
year  ended  December  31,  1995,  for the  period  January 1, 1996 to
October 14, 1996, for the period October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996
and for the year ended December 31, 1997 were $(3,242), $(220), $8,324
and $4,235, respectively.  Interest income for the year ended December
31, 1995,  for the period January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996, for the
period  October 15,  1996 to December  31, 1996 and for the year ended
December  31, 1997 was  $(5,388),  $(3,424),  $(1,079)  and  $(1,832),
respectively.

    Severance  and other exit costs for the period  January 1, 1996 to
October 14, 1996 of $1,872 represent  employee severance of $1,545 and
other  exit  costs  of  $327   associated  with  the  closing  of  its
Westerville, Ohio facility. Severance costs for the period October 15,
1996 to December 31, 1996  principally  represent  employee  severance
benefits associated with (i) the Company's general headcount reduction
programs in Europe and North  America of $4,557  which were  announced
during such period,  and (ii) the  realignment  of the  analytical and
precision   balance  business  in  Switzerland  of  $6,205  which  was
announced  in December  1996.  In  connection  with such  programs the
Company reduced its workforce by 168 employees in 1996.

    The  Company  recorded  further  restructuring  charges  of $6,300
during 1997.  Such charges are in connection with the closure of three
facilities in North  America and are comprised  primarily of severance
and other related benefits and costs of existing facilities, including
lease  termination  costs and  write-down of existing  assets to their
expected net realizable value. In connection with the closure of these
facilities,   the   Company   expects   to   involuntarily   terminate
approximately 70 employees.  The Company is undertaking  these actions
as part of its efforts to reduce costs through reengineering.

    A  rollforward  of the  components  of the  Company's  accrual for
restructuring activities is as follows:

    Balance at December 31, 1996                 $10,762
    1997 Activities:
           Restructuring accrual for North
             American operations                   6,300
           Reductions in workforce and
             other cash outflows                  (7,182)
           Non-cash write-downs of property,
             plant and equipment                    (540)
           Impact of foreign currency               (582)
                                                 ------- 
    Balance at December 31, 1997                  $8,758
                                                 =======

    The Company's  accrual for  restructuring  activities of $8,758 at
December  31, 1997  primarily  consisted of $6,544 for  severance  and
other  related   benefits   with  the  remaining   balance  for  lease
termination and other costs of exiting  facilities.  Such programs are
expected to be substantially complete in 1998.


15.     COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    Operating Leases

    The Company leases  certain of its facilities and equipment  under
operating   leases.   The  future   minimum   lease   payments   under
non-cancelable operating leases are as follows at December 31, 1997:

                 1998...................  $12,006
                 1999...................    8,565
                 2000...................    5,771
                 2001...................    4,023
                 2002...................    3,296
                 Thereafter.............    1,856
                                          -------
                   Total................  $35,517
                                          =======


     Rent expense for operating leases amounted to $13,034, $3,430 and
$16,420 for the period  January 1, 1996 to October 14,  1996,  for the
period  October 15,  1996 to December  31, 1996 and for the year ended
December 31, 1997, respectively.

      Legal

     The  Company is party to  various  legal  proceedings,  including
certain  environmental  matters,  incidental  to the normal  course of
business. Management does not expect that any of such proceedings will
have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
results of operations.



16.     GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The tables  below show the  Company's  operations  by  geographic
region.  Transfers  between  geographic  regions are priced to reflect
consideration  of  market   conditions  and  the  regulations  of  the
countries in which the transferring entities are located.

Twelve                                                  Total         
months                            Net      Transfers    net       Earnings
ended                Net sales    sales    between      sales     (loss)   
December 31,         by           by       geographic   by        before   
1995                 destination  origin   areas        origin    taxes    
- - - ------------         ------------ -------- -----------  --------- --------
Switzerland (1)...   $ 41,820     $102,712  $159,453    $262,165  $ 11,431
Germany...........    151,974      158,393    47,379     205,772     9,626
Other Europe......    247,802      228,939       799     229,738     1,780
                     --------     --------  --------    --------  --------
Total Europe......    441,596      490,044   207,631     697,675    22,837
United States.....    263,945      298,053    29,578     327,631    (1,353)
Other Americas....     52,966       32,732       131      32,863       905
                     --------     --------  --------    --------  --------
Total Americas....    316,911      330,785    29,709     360,494      (448)
Asia and other....     91,908       29,586        97      29,683     1,861
Eliminations......         --           --  (237,437)   (237,437)    3,554
                     --------     --------  --------    --------  --------
Totals............   $850,415     $850,415  $     --    $850,415  $ 27,804
                     ========     ========  ========    ========  ========


For
the period                                              Total         
January 1,           Net          Net      Transfers    net       Earnings
1996 to              sales        sales    between      sales     (loss)   
October              by           by       geographic   by        before   
14, 1996             destination  origin   areas        origin    taxes    
- - - ----------           ------------ -------- -----------  --------  --------
Switzerland (1)...   $ 32,282     $ 74,303 $ 126,423    $200,726  $ 21,241
Germany...........    104,961      114,015    35,583     149,598     8,292
Other Europe......    186,823      171,061       840     171,901       591
                     --------     -------- ---------    --------  --------
Total Europe......    324,066      359,379   162,846     522,225    30,124
United States.....    217,636      246,180    22,753     268,933    (1,577)
Other Americas....     47,473       25,925         3      25,928     1,078
                     --------     -------- ---------    --------  --------
Total Americas....    265,109      272,105    22,756     294,861      (499)
Asia and other....     73,046       30,737       265      31,002       686
Eliminations......        --           --   (185,867)   (185,867)   (5,158)
                     --------     -------- ---------    --------  --------
Totals............   $662,221     $662,221 $     --     $662,221  $ 25,153
                     ========     ======== =========    ========  ========




[FN]
(1)   Includes Corporate.

(2)   The effect of non-recurring  Acquisition charges arising from
      in-process  research and development  projects ($114,100) and
      the  revaluation of  inventories  to fair value  ($32,200) by
      region are as follows:

                 Europe....................$108,100
                 Americas..................  36,000
                 Asia/Rest of World........   2,200



17.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

      Quarterly  financial  data for the years 1996 and 1997 are as
follows:



[FN]
(1)   The  financial  data for the second  quarter of 1997 includes
      charges  in  connection  with the  Safeline  Acquisition,  as
      discussed in Note 3, for the sale of inventories  revalued to
      fair value of $2,054 and in-process  research and development
      of $29,959.  The second  quarter also includes  extraordinary
      charges for the write-off of  capitalized  debt issuance fees
      of $9,552 as discussed in Note 9.

(2)   The financial data for the fourth quarter of 1996  represents
      the Company's  combined  results of operations for the period
      from  October 1, 1996 to October  14, 1996 and for the period
      from October 15, 1996 to December  31, 1996.  The period from
      October  15, 1996 to December  31, 1996  includes  charges in
      connection with the Acquisition,  as discussed in Note 1, for
      the sale of  inventories  revalued  to fair  value of $32,194
      and  in-process  research and  development  of $114,070.  The
      fourth  quarter  1997  data  includes  charges  for the early
      extinguishment  of debt and the write-off of capitalized debt
      issuance fees totaling  $31,645 as further  discussed in Note
      9.

(3)   The  Company's  shares  began  trading  on the New York Stock
      Exchange on November 14, 1997.


SCHEDULE I


        INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Mettler-Toledo International Inc.:

Under date of  February 6, 1998,  we  reported on the  consolidated
balance sheets of Mettler-Toledo  International  Inc. (formerly "MT
Investors  Inc.")  and  subsidiaries  (as  defined in Note 1 to the
consolidated  financial  statements)  as of  December  31, 1996 and
1997, and the related  consolidated  statements of operations,  net
assets /  shareholders'  equity  and cash  flows for the year ended
December  31,  1995 and for the  period  January 1, 1996 to October
14, 1996, the Predecessor  periods,  and for the period October 15,
1996 to December  31,  1996,  and for the year ended  December  31,
1997, the Successor  periods,  included herein.  In connection with
our   audits   of   the   aforementioned   consolidated   financial
statements,  we also  audited  the related  consolidated  financial
statement  schedule  included under Item 14 of the Form 10-K.  This
financial   statement   schedule  is  the   responsibility  of  the
Company's  management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In  our  opinion,   such   financial   statement   schedule,   when
considered  in  relation  to  the  basic   consolidated   financial
statements  taken  as a  whole,  present  fairly,  in all  material
respects, the information set forth therein.


KPMG FIDES PEAT


Zurich, Switzerland
February 6, 1998




SCHEDULE I- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

- - - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Column A       Column B          Column C        Column D      Column E
- - - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     Additions
                              -----------------------
                                   (1)      (2)
                   Balance at   Charged    Charged to               Balance
                      the       to costs    other                     at
                   beginning      and      accounts   -Deductions-   end of
    Description    of period    expenses   describe     describe     period
- - - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       Note (A)

Accounts
Receivable-
   allowance for
   doubtful
   accounts:

   Year ended
    December 31, 
    1997              8,388      1,516        -          2,235      7,669

   For the period
    October 15,
    1996 to
    December 31,
    1996              9,429         97        -          1,138      8,388

   For the period
    January 1,
    1996 to
    October 14,
    1996              9,292        370        -            233      9,429

   Year ended
    December 31,
    1995              7,411      3,287                   1,406      9,292

- - - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note A
   Represents  excess of  uncollectable  balances  written off over
   recoveries  of accounts  previously  written off.  Additionally,
   amounts  are  net of  foreign  currency  translation  effect  of
   $(409),  $(375),  $(159) and $(552) for the year ended 1995, for
   the period  from  January 1, 1996 to October 14,  1996,  for the
   period from  October  15, 1996 to December  31, 1996 and for the
   year ended December 31, 1997, respectively.

