
10-K


                             UNITED STATES
                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                        Washington, D.C. 20549

       ---------------------------------------------------------

                               FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
|X|      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
              FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                  OR
|-|    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
           FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ------- TO -------
                     COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-22493

       ---------------------------------------------------------

                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

             DELAWARE                           13-3668641
  (State or other jurisdiction of    (I.R.S. Employer Identification
  incorporation or organization)                   No.)

           IM LANGACHER
          P.O. BOX MT-100
  CH 8606 GREIFENSEE, SWITZERLAND
  (Address of principal executive               (Zip Code)
             offices)

                          011-41-1-944-22-11
         (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

       ---------------------------------------------------------

      Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                              Name of each
                                               exchange
        Title of each class               on which registered
        -------------------               -------------------
      Common Stock, $.01 par                 New York Stock
               value                           Exchange

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter  period that the Registrant
was  required  to file such  reports),  and (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to
Item 405 of  Regulation  S-K (ss.  229.405  of this  chapter)  is not  contained
herein,  and will not be contained,  to the best of Registrant's  knowledge,  in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.[ ]

         As of March 8, 1999 there were  38,400,363  shares of the  Registrant's
Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding. The aggregate market value
of the shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant (based on
the closing  price for the Common Stock on the New York Stock  Exchange on March
8, 1999) was  approximately  $922,851,527.  For  purposes  of this  computation,
shares held by affiliates and by directors of the Registrant have been excluded.
Such  exclusion  of shares held by directors  is not  intended,  nor shall it be
deemed, to be an admission that such persons are affiliates of the Registrant.

                    Documents Incorporated by Reference

             Document                        Part of Form 10-K
      Proxy Statement for 1999            Into which Incorporated
    Annual Meeting of Stockholders               Part III


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                        METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                          annual report on form 10-K
                 for the fiscal year ended DECEMBER 31, 1998

                                                                           PAGE
PART I

ITEM 1.       BUSINESS........................................................1

ITEM 2.       PROPERTIES.....................................................22

ITEM 3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS..............................................23

ITEM 4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS............23

PART II

ITEM 5.       MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED 
              STOCKHOLDER MATTERS............................................24

ITEM 6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA........................................25

ITEM 7.       MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL 
              CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS............................27

ITEM 7A.      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.....43

ITEM 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA....................43

ITEM 9.       CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON 
              ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE............................43

PART III

ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.............44

ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.........................................46

ITEM 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS 
              AND MANAGEMENT.................................................46

ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.................46

PART IV

ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
              ON FORM 8-K....................................................47

SIGNATURES...................................................................48

                                        i


         Unless  otherwise  stated  or where  the  context  otherwise  requires,
references  herein  to we,  our,  the  "Company"  or  "Mettler-Toledo"  refer to
Mettler-Toledo International Inc. and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.

         This Annual  Report on Form 10-K  includes  forward-looking  statements
based on our current  expectations  and projections  about future events.  These
forward-looking  statements  are subject to a number of risks and  uncertainties
which  could  cause our actual  results  to differ  materially  from  historical
results or those  anticipated  and certain of which are beyond our control.  The
words  "believe,"  "expect,"   "anticipate"  and  similar  expressions  identify
forward-looking  statements.  We undertake no obligation  to publicly  update or
revise any forward-looking  statements,  whether as a result of new information,
future events or otherwise.  New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is
not  possible  for us to predict  all such risk  factors,  nor can we assess the
impact of all such  risk  factors  on our  business  or the  extent to which any
factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially
from those contained in any  forward-looking  statements.  Given these risks and
uncertainties,  investors  should not place undue  reliance  on  forward-looking
statements as a prediction of actual results.  See "Management's  Discussion and
Analysis of Financial  Condition and Results of Operations"  and Exhibit 99.1 to
this Report.

     Mettler-Toledo(R),    Mettler(R),    Ingold(R),    Garvens(R),    Ohaus(R),
DeltaRange(R),   DigiTol(R),  Mentor  SC(R),  OPRA(R),  PILAR(R),   Safeline(R),
Spider(R),  TrimWeigh(R)  and  TRUCKMATE(R)  are our  registered  trademarks and
MonoBloc(TM),   MultiRange(TM),   Signature(TM)  and   Powerphase(TM)   are  our
trademarks.

         Unless otherwise  indicated,  industry data contained herein is derived
from publicly  available  industry trade journals,  government reports and other
publicly available sources. We have not independently  verified this data but we
believe the data is  reliable.  Where such sources are not  available,  industry
data is derived from our internal estimates,  which we believe to be reasonable,
but which cannot be independently  verified.  As used in this Annual Report, "$"
refers to U.S. dollars, "CHF" or "SFr" refers to Swiss francs,  "(pound)" refers
to British pounds sterling and "CDN $" refers to Canadian dollars.


                                      PART I

Item 1.       Business

Overview

         Mettler-Toledo  is a leading global supplier of precision  instruments.
We are the world's largest manufacturer and marketer of weighing instruments for
use in  laboratory,  industrial and food  retailing  applications.  We also hold
leading   positions  in  various  related   precision   measurement   instrument
technologies which we sell to the same customer base. For instance,  we hold one
of  the  top  three  global  market   positions  in  the  following   analytical
instruments:  titrators,  thermal  analysis  systems,  automatic  lab  reactors,
automated synthesis products, pH meters and electrodes.  In addition, we are the
global market leader in metal detection  equipment for use in the production and
packaging  of  goods  in  industries  such as food  processing,  pharmaceutical,
cosmetics, chemicals and other industries.

         Market leadership and technology  leadership are critical components of
our  success,  and we have used  these  advantages  to build our  business.  For
instance,  using our leading  position in weighing  instruments  as our base, we



have added other products,  such as analytical  instruments and metal detectors,
that appeal to our existing  customer  base.  In addition,  we focus on the high
value-added segments of our markets by delivering innovation to the marketplace.
Some examples of our innovations include more accurate forms of measurement,  an
increased  use  of  automation  or  robotics  in our  products  and  the  use of
custom-designed software or open-system  architectures to allow data gathered by
our  instruments to be more easily  integrated  into our  customers'  management
information systems.

         We believe  our ability to  maintain  and  enhance the  strength of our
leadership position in high value-added  segments is due in part to the strength
of our brand name and the quality of our global sales and service  organization.
We  service  a  worldwide  customer  base  through  our own  sales  and  service
organization and we have a global  manufacturing  presence in Europe, the United
States and Asia. Overall, we estimate the global market for weighing instruments
to  be  approximately   $4.5  billion  and  the  market  for  other  measurement
instruments to be approximately $1.5 billion.

         In 1998,  our sales were  $935.7  million.  Of this total 46% came from
Europe,  43% from North and South America and 11% from Asia and other countries.
For additional information regarding our segment disclosure,  see Note 16 to our
audited consolidated  financial statements.  Despite poor economic conditions in
parts of the world during 1998,  our sales have  remained  strong.  We attribute
this  strength  to the  non-cyclical  nature  of our two  largest  markets,  the
pharmaceutical  and food and  beverage  industries.  Moreover,  the  diversified
nature  of our  customer  base and  product  offerings  provides  an  additional
competitive strength on a global basis and limits our exposure to local economic
trends.

History

         We  trace  our  roots to the  invention  of the  single-pan  analytical
balance by Dr.  Erhard  Mettler  and the  formation  of Mettler  Instruments  AG
("Mettler")  in  1945.  During  the  1970s  and  1980s,  Mettler  expanded  from
laboratory balances into industrial and food retailing products,  and introduced
the first fully electronic  precision balance in 1973. The Toledo Scale Company,
which we acquired in 1989,  was founded in 1901 and  developed a leading  market
position in the  industrial  weighing  market in the United  States.  During the
1970s,  Toledo Scale expanded into the food retailing  market.  When we acquired
Toledo  Scale,  our name was changed to  Mettler-Toledo  to reflect the combined
strengths of the two companies and to capitalize on their  historic  reputations
for quality and innovation.  During the past two decades,  we have grown through
additional  acquisitions  intended to complement our existing geographic markets
and products.  For instance, in 1986, we acquired the Ingold Group of companies,
which  manufacture  electrodes,  and Garvens  Kontrollwaagen  AG,  which  builds
dynamic checkweighers. Toledo Scale acquired Hi-Speed Checkweigher Co., in 1981.
In 1990, we acquired Ohaus Corporation,  which manufactures laboratory balances.
More  recently,  in 1997 we acquired  Safeline  and in 1998 we  acquired  Bohdan
Automation, Applied Systems and Myriad Synthesizer Technology.

         Mettler-Toledo International Inc. was incorporated in December 1991 and
was  recapitalized  in  connection  with the October 15, 1996  acquisition  (the
"Acquisition") of the Mettler-Toledo group of companies from Ciba-Geigy.  In the
Acquisition,  we paid cash  consideration  of  approximately  SFr 505.0  million
(approximately  $402.0  million at October 15,  1996),  including  dividends  of
approximately  SFr 109.4  million  (approximately  $87.1  million at October 15,
1996), paid approximately $185.0 million to settle amounts due to Ciba-Geigy and
its  affiliates and incurred  expenses in connection  with the  Acquisition  and
 


related  financing of approximately  $29.0 million.  We financed the Acquisition
primarily with (i) borrowings  under a credit  agreement in the amount of $307.0
million,  (ii) the issuance of $135.0 million of senior  subordinated  notes and
(iii) an equity contribution of $190.0 million primarily from AEA Investors, its
shareholder-investors and our executive officers and other employees.  Following
the  completion  of our  initial  public  offering  ("IPO")  in  November  1997,
management, employees and Company sponsored benefit funds held approximately 18%
of the Company's shares on a fully diluted basis.

         In May 1997,  we  acquired  Safeline  Limited for  (pound)63.7  million
(approximately  $104.4 million at May 30, 1997). Safeline is the world's largest
manufacturer and marketer of metal detection  systems for companies that produce
and package goods in the food processing,  pharmaceutical,  cosmetics, chemicals
and other  industries.  Safeline's metal detectors can also be combined with our
checkweighing  products  for  important  quality  and  safety  checks  in  these
industries.

         During the fourth  quarter of 1997,  we completed  our IPO of 7,666,667
shares of common stock, including the underwriters' over-allotment options, at a
per share  price of $14.00.  The IPO raised net  proceeds,  after  underwriters'
commissions and expenses, of approximately $97.3 million.  Concurrently with the
IPO,  we  refinanced  our  prior  credit  facility  and used  proceeds  from the
refinancing  and the IPO to repay the  senior  subordinated  notes of our wholly
owned subsidiary, Mettler-Toledo, Inc.

         In July  1998,  certain  selling  shareholders  completed  a  secondary
offering of a total of  11,464,400  shares of our common  stock,  including  the
underwriters'  over-allotment  options.  Neither  we nor  any of our  directors,
executive  officers or other employees sold shares or received any proceeds from
the offering.

         In February and March 1999,  certain selling  shareholders  completed a
secondary offering of a total of 6,099,250 shares of our common stock, including
the underwriters' over-allotment  options.  Neither we nor any of our directors,
executive  officers or other employees sold shares or received any proceeds from
the offering.

Recent Acquisitions

         We are the leading  provider of  automated  lab  reactors  and reaction
calorimeters  to  the  automated  drug  and  chemical  compound   discovery  and
development  market. We believe that our customers want solutions in this market
from a company like Mettler-Toledo, with a reputation for innovation and quality
and with a global presence and service network.

         We extended our product  offerings to the  automated  drug and compound
discovery market with our July 1998 acquisition of Bohdan Automation Inc. Bohdan
is a leading supplier of laboratory  automation and automated synthesis products
used  in  research  for  life  science   applications  for   pharmaceutical  and
agricultural  products  and in other  applications  in the  food  and  chemicals
industries.

         In December 1998, we announced that we had acquired two technologically
advanced   instrument   companies,   Applied  Systems  and  Myriad   Synthesizer
Technology.  Although these businesses are not currently significant in size, we
believe these  acquisitions  are key elements in our strategic effort to further
build a  leading  position  in the  field of  automated  solutions  for drug and
chemical compound  discovery and development.  These  acquisitions  enable us to




offer a strong and comprehensive array of solutions,  from sample preparation to
compound synthesis to process development.

         Applied  Systems  designs,   assembles  and  markets   instruments  for
in-process  molecular  analysis,   which  is  primarily  used  for  researching,
developing and  monitoring  chemical  processes.  Applied  Systems'  proprietary
sensors,  together with its innovative  Fourier transform  infrared  technology,
enable  chemists to analyze  chemical  reactions  as they  occur,  which is more
efficient than pulling samples.

         Myriad   Synthesizer   Technology   designs,   assembles   and  markets
instruments  that  facilitate  and  automate the  synthesis of large  numbers of
chemical  compounds  in parallel,  which is a key step in the chemical  compound
discovery  process.  Its products can be used in all stages of synthesis in drug
discovery.

         In February 1999, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to
acquire  the  Testut-Lutrana  group,  a leading  manufacturer  and  marketer  of
industrial  and retail scales in France with annual sales of  approximately  $50
million. The agreement is subject to approvals by the French Ministry of Economy
and Finance and other closing  conditions.  The acquisition is expected to close
in the next several months.

Market Leadership

         We believe that we have a leading position in each of our markets,  and
at least 80% of our product sales are from products that are the global  leaders
in their segment. In the weighing instruments market, we are the only company to
offer  products  for  laboratory,  industrial  and food  retailing  applications
globally  and we believe that we hold a market share more than twice that of our
nearest  competitor.  We believe  that in 1998 we had  approximately  40% of the
global market for  laboratory  balances,  including the largest  market share in
each of Europe, the United States and Asia (excluding Japan), and the number two
position in Japan. In the industrial and food retailing  markets,  we believe we
have the largest market share in Europe and the United States.  In Asia, we have
a substantial  industrial  and food  retailing  business which has gained market
share  in  recent  years.   This  business  is  supported  by  our   established
manufacturing  presence in China. In addition, we also have one of the top three
positions  in the global  market for several  analytical  instruments  including
titrators,  thermal analysis  systems,  electrodes,  pH meters and automatic lab
reactors.  We are also  working to enhance  our leading  position  in  precision
instruments.  For instance,  in 1997 we added  Safeline's  market  leading metal
detection  products,  which can be used with our  checkweighing  instruments for
important  quality  and safety  checks in the food  processing,  pharmaceutical,
cosmetics,  chemicals  and other  industries.  Also, we believe that Bohdan will
provide  robotics  capabilities  to our analytical  instruments and will further
enhance our product  offerings.  We attribute  our worldwide  market  leadership
positions to the following competitive strengths:


o       Global Brand and Reputation. The Mettler-Toledo brand name is identified
        worldwide with accuracy,  reliability  and  innovation.  Customers value
        these  characteristics   because  precision  instruments,   particularly
        weighing and analytical  instruments,  significantly  impact  customers'
        product  quality,   productivity,   costs  and  regulatory   compliance.
        Furthermore,   precision   instruments   generally  constitute  a  small
        percentage of customers' aggregate expenditures. As a result, we believe
        customers focus on accuracy, product reliability,  technical innovation,
        service quality,  reputation and past experience when choosing precision
        instruments.   We  also  believe  that  our  customers  experience  high
        switching costs if they attempt to change vendors.  A recent independent



        survey  concluded  that  "Mettler-Toledo"  was  one  of the  three  most
        recognized  brand names in the laboratory.  In fact laboratory  balances
        are often  generically  referred to as "Mettlers."  The strength of this
        brand name has allowed us to successfully  extend our laboratory product
        line to include  titrators,  thermal analysis  systems,  electrodes,  pH
        meters and automatic lab reactors.


o       Technological Innovation.  We focus on the high value-added segments of
        our markets by delivering innovation to the marketplace.  We have a long
        and successful track record of innovation and remain at the forefront of
        technological development. Recent innovations in both weighing and 
        related instrumentation include:

         --   a new digital load cell

         --   the first personal computer interface to be certified by weights
              and measures regulators (the ID 20 terminal)

         --   significantly improved weighing sensor technology (MonoBloc)

         --   a new moisture determination instrument (GOBI)

         --   a new automatic lab reactor

         --   a new, enhanced sensitivity metal detector (the Safeline Zero 
              Metal-Free Zone detector)

         --   new dimensioning equipment using our patented PILAR technology

              As with many of our recent innovations,  the new MonoBloc weighing
         sensor   technology   is  more  accurate  and   significantly   reduces
         manufacturing  costs and the time and expense of design changes.  These
         improvements  resulted  from a reduction in the number of parts used in
         prior sensors from around 100 to around 50 used in the MonoBloc sensor.
         We believe  that we are the global  leader in our industry in providing
         innovative   instruments,   in   integrating   our   instruments   into
         application-specific  solutions for customers and in  facilitating  the
         processing of data gathered by our instruments and the transfer of this
         data to customers'  management  information  systems. Our technological
         innovation  efforts benefit from our manufacturing  expertise in sensor
         technology,  precision  machining  and  electronics,  as  well  as  our
         strength in software development.

o        Comprehensive,  High  Quality  Product  Range.  We  manufacture  a more
         comprehensive   range  of   weighing   instruments   than  any  of  our
         competitors.  Our broad product line addresses a wide range of weighing
         applications   across  and  within   many   industries   and   regions.
         Furthermore,  our analytical  instruments and metal  detection  systems
         complement  our  weighing  products,  enabling  us to offer  integrated
         solutions.  We manufacture our products in modern  facilities,  most of
         which are ISO 9001 certified.  Our broad range of high quality products
         and the ability to provide  integrated  solutions allows us to leverage
         our sales and service organization,  product development activities and
         manufacturing and distribution capabilities.

o        Global  Sales and  Service.  We have the only global  sales and service
         organization among weighing instruments  manufacturers,  and we believe



         that this capability is a major competitive advantage.  At December 31,
         1998,  this  organization  consisted of  approximately  3,250 employees
         organized  into  locally  based,  customer-focused  groups that provide
         prompt  service  and  support  to our  customers  and  distributors  in
         virtually  all major markets  around the world.  The local focus of our
         sales and service organization enables us to provide timely, responsive
         support  to  our  customers   worldwide   and  provides   feedback  for
         manufacturing and product  development.  When we survey our current and
         potential customers on their needs, they often name service as the most
         important criteria for choosing their instrument suppliers. In addition
         to the service capability, this global infrastructure also allows us to
         capitalize on growth opportunities in emerging markets.

o        Largest  Installed Base. We believe that we have the largest  installed
         base of weighing instruments in the world. From this installed base, we
         obtain  service  contracts  that  provide  a strong,  stable  source of
         recurring service revenue.  Service revenue  represented  approximately
         16% of net sales in 1998, of which  approximately 9% was derived solely
         from service  contracts and repairs with the remainder derived from the
         sale of spare  parts.  We believe that our  installed  base of weighing
         instruments  represents a competitive  advantage with respect to repeat
         purchases and  purchases of related  analytical  instruments  and metal
         detection systems, because customers tend to remain with their existing
         suppliers. In addition,  switching to a new instrument supplier entails
         additional costs to the customer for training, spare parts, service and
         systems  integration  requirements.  Close  relationships  and frequent
         contact with our broad  customer  base also provide us with sales leads
         and new product and application ideas.

o        Geographical, Product and Customer Diversification. Our revenue base is
         diversified  by geographic  region,  product  range and customer.  Many
         different  industries,  including  chemicals,   pharmaceuticals,   food
         processing, food retailing and transportation utilize our broad product
         range.  We supply  customers  all over the world,  and no one  customer
         accounted for more than 2.6% of net sales in 1998. Our diverse  revenue
         base  reduces our  exposure to regional or  industry-specific  economic
         conditions,  and our  presence in many  different  geographic  markets,
         product  markets  and  industries  enhances  our  attractiveness  as  a
         supplier to multinational customers.

Growth Strategies

         We are  implementing  strategies  relating to expanding our  technology
leadership,  increasing our market share and  capitalizing on  opportunities  in
developed markets,  capitalizing on opportunities in emerging markets,  pursuing
selected  acquisition  opportunities and re-engineering and cost savings.  These
strategies  are  designed to reduce our overall cost  structure  and enhance our
position as a global  market  leader.  The  successful  implementation  of these
strategies has contributed to an improvement in Adjusted Operating Income (gross
profit less research and  development  and selling,  general and  administrative
expenses before  amortization and non-recurring  costs) from $39.5 million (4.6%
of net sales) for 1995 to $101.0  million  (10.8% of net sales) for 1998. We are
committed  to  improving  our   performance   and  are  pursuing  the  following
strategies:

         Expanding Our Technology Leadership. We attribute a significant portion
of our recent margin  improvement to our research and  development  efforts.  We
intend  to  continue  to  invest  in  product  innovation  in order  to  provide
technologically  advanced  products  to  our  customers  for  existing  and  new
applications.  Over the last three years,  we have invested  approximately  $150





million in research and development.  Our research and development  efforts fall
into two categories:

         o    technology advancements, which increase the value of our products.
              These  may  be  in  the  form  of  enhanced   functionality,   new
              applications  for our  technologies,  more  accurate  or  reliable
              measurement,  additional software capability or automation through
              robotics or other means

         o    cost reductions, which reduce the manufacturing cost of our 
              products through better overall design

         Our research and development  efforts have contributed to a pipeline of
innovative and new products, significant reductions in product costs and reduced
time to  market  for new  products.  Examples  of recent  product  introductions
include:

         o    industrial and retail products that apply open-system architecture

         o    MonoBloc, a high accuracy,  low-cost weighing sensor technology 
              which is being incorporated throughout our product lines

         o    a higher performance titrator

         o    an improved performance modular thermal analysis system

         o    a new density and refractometry measurement technology

         o    a fully integrated metal detector and checkweigher

         o    the first Chinese-designed and manufactured laboratory balance

         Increasing  Our  Market  Share and  Capitalizing  on  Opportunities  in
Developed  Markets.  We recognize that to be a successful  company,  we must not
only  develop  excellent  products,  but we  must  market  and  distribute  them
effectively--more  effectively than our competitors.  We utilize what we believe
are the most sophisticated marketing and sales techniques in our industry. These
techniques  include the development and utilization of marketing  databases.  We
develop these databases to better understand the full potential of our market by
customer,  location,  industry,  instrument  and  related  application.  We then
utilize this data to more efficiently  direct our field resources and complement
our direct and distributor  sales forces with targeted mailing and telemarketing
campaigns to more fully exploit our market's  potential.  We also utilize a dual
brand  strategy  for certain  market  segments  to improve  our  overall  market
penetration. For example, we sell laboratory balances under the Ohaus brand name
as an  alternative  to the  Mettler-Toledo  brand name in  certain  distribution
channels for laboratory balances.

         We believe that service  capabilities  are a critical success factor in
our business.  Our service capabilities,  which provide support to our customers
and  distributors  in virtually all major  markets  across the globe and include
around-the-clock  availability of well-trained technicians, are highly valued by
our  customers.   We  believe  that  no  other  competitor  has  global  service
capabilities.




         The combination of our sophisticated marketing and sales techniques and
service capabilities help us capitalize on growth opportunities in our developed
markets. These opportunities include:

         o    integrating information from our measurement instruments into our
              customers' data management software systems

         o    automating and/or improving process control, in part by developing
              integrated  solutions  which combine  measurement  instruments and
              related technologies directly into manufacturing processes

         o    harmonization of national weighing standards across countries

         o    increasing   standardization   of  manufacturing   and  laboratory
              practices  programs like ISO 9001, Good  Laboratory  Practices and
              Good Manufacturing Practices

         o    increasing recognition by our customers of the importance of
              preventive maintenance in reducing down time

         Capitalizing  on  Opportunities  in Emerging  Markets.  While  emerging
markets were not a source of growth in 1998 due to weak economic conditions,  we
believe that these markets will provide growth  opportunities for us in the long
term.  These  growth  opportunities  are  being  driven  primarily  by  economic
development  and  global  manufacturers'  utilization  of  additional  and  more
sophisticated  precision  measurement  instruments  as they shift  production to
these markets. In addition, we believe that over the long term, the trend toward
international  quality  standards,  the need to  upgrade  mechanical  scales  to
electronic versions and the establishment of local production  facilities by our
multinational  client base will add to the opportunities in emerging markets. To
date our  emerging  market  expansion  has  primarily  focused on Asia.  In Asia
(excluding Japan), we are the market leader in laboratory  weighing  instruments
and have a substantial  industrial and food  retailing  business that has gained
market share in recent years. For instance, we have two profitable operations in
China:  first, a 60% owned joint venture that  manufactures and sells industrial
and  food  retailing   products  and,  second,  a  wholly  owned  facility  that
manufactures and distributes laboratory products. Both of these operations serve
the  domestic  and  export  markets.   We  have  also  opened  direct  marketing
organizations  in Taiwan,  Korea,  Hong Kong,  Thailand,  Malaysia  and  Eastern
Europe.  Beyond Asia, we are also  expanding  our sales and service  presence in
Latin America and other emerging markets.

         We believe  that to  succeed in  emerging  markets,  there are  several
advantages we must offer to our customer base:

         o    to our  multinational  customers,  we must offer the same level of
              service  and  problem-solving  capabilities  that we offer them in
              developed   countries.   We  accomplish  this  through   extensive
              training, including factory training, of our employees

         o    to our local customers,  we must offer lower cost and less complex
              products than are required by our  customers in Japan,  Europe and
              North America.  We accomplish this through the increased  research
              and development and manufacturing  capabilities at our two Chinese
              production facilities




         o    we  must  have  a  direct  local   presence  to  ensure  that  our
              combination   of  quality   products  and  excellent   service  is
              effectively  carried  out at a local  level so that we achieve the
              same level of brand awareness in emerging markets that we enjoy in
              developed   markets.   We  have   accomplished  this  in  part  by
              establishing  ten new sales and  service  operations  in  emerging
              markets since 1996

         Pursuing  Selected  Acquisition  Opportunities.  We  believe  that  the
combination   of  our  market   leadership,   our  strong  brand  name  and  our
comprehensive sales and distribution network supports an attractive platform for
acquisitions. We are interested in acquiring companies that provide us with:

         o    Complementary  products  that will benefit from our brand name and
              global distribution  channels. An example is Bohdan Automation,  a
              leading supplier of laboratory  automation and automated synthesis
              products, which we acquired in 1998 and whose products we have now
              added to our  global  distribution  network.  Because of its small
              size as a stand-alone company, Bohdan lacked a global presence and
              did not serve  customers  on a  worldwide  basis.  We offer it the
              infrastructure to expand its business globally.

         o    Integrated technology solutions, which we can combine with our own
              technologies   to  create  an  overall  better  solution  for  our
              customers.  An example is Safeline  Limited,  which we acquired in
              1997.  We  combined  its  metal   detection   equipment  with  our
              checkweighers to create one instrument,  featuring integrated data
              management,   a  smaller   footprint  and  only  one   man-machine
              interface--a  better  solution  for  many  of our  customers  than
              separate products.

         o    Consolidation   opportunities  in  fragmented  markets.   Examples
              include  our   recently   announced   agreement   to  acquire  the
              Testut-Lutrana group in France and our acquisitions of a number of
              independent  industrial and retail  weighing  distributors  in the
              United States.

         o    Geographic  expansion  into markets  where we do not have a direct
              presence.  For example,  earlier this year we  established a small
              presence in India by acquiring a local manufacturer.

         Re-engineering and Cost Savings.  We have improved our profitability in
recent years partly through a series of  initiatives  aimed at reducing our cost
structure.  We plan to take similar  initiatives  in the future with the goal of
further improving our operating margins. These initiatives include:

         o    moving  the  production  of  certain  product  lines to lower cost
              locations and  consolidating the production of others For example,
              in  1999  we  are   planning  to   consolidate   development   and
              manufacturing  of all balances using  magnetic  force  restoration
              technology  in  Switzerland  and introduce a number of products to
              our global distribution channel that are manufactured in China

         o    increasing  sales  force   productivity   through   telemarketing,
              increased training and other focused initiatives.  For example, we
              have  recently  initiated  an internet  sales  channel for certain
              product  categories  and have  also  significantly  increased  our
              telemarketing initiatives.  We believe both of these programs will
              increase the productivity of our sales force




         o    reducing distribution costs by using existing infrastructure more
              efficiently and centralizing processes where economies of scale
              can be obtained. For example, we recently consolidated most of our
              North American order processing and billing functions into one 
              location

         o    reducing product cost through research and development, improved 
              manufacturing processes  and  reducing the  purchased  cost of
              components. For example, we will introduce a number of products in
              1999 with lower costs than the previous generation,  including a
              basic balance. In addition,  we have recently initiated a program
              to reduce the cost of printed circuit boards used in many of our
              scales and balances

         o    continually reviewing operations to identify additional 
              opportunities to reduce costs

         We believe that these  initiatives will place us in a position to build
on our recent improvement in profitability.  Furthermore, we believe that we can
leverage our existing  infrastructure,  particularly  our recent  investments in
Asia, to obtain  continued  sales growth  without  significant  additions to our
overall cost base.

Products

Laboratory

         We manufacture and market a complete range of laboratory  balances,  as
well as other selected laboratory  measurement  instruments,  such as titrators,
thermal analysis systems,  electrodes, pH meters and automatic lab reactors, for
laboratory   applications  in  research  and  development,   quality  assurance,
production and education. Laboratory products accounted for approximately 38% of
our net sales in 1998 (including revenues from related after-sale  service).  We
estimate  that  we  have  approximately  40%  share  of the  global  market  for
laboratory  balances  and we are  among  the top three  producers  worldwide  of
titrators,  thermal analysis  systems,  electrodes,  pH meters and automatic lab
reactors.  We  believe  that we have the  leading  market  share for  laboratory
balances in each of Europe, the United States and Asia (excluding Japan) and the
number two position in Japan.

         Balances.  The balance is the most  common  piece of  equipment  in the
laboratory.  We believe that we sell the highest performance laboratory balances
available on the market,  with weighing ranges from one  ten-millionth of a gram
up to 32  kilograms.  The  Company's  brand  name  is so  well  recognized  that
laboratory  balances  are  often  generically  referred  to as  "Mettlers."  The
Mettler-Toledo  name is identified  worldwide  with  accuracy,  reliability  and
innovation.  In our judgment,  this reputation  constitutes one of our principal
competitive strengths.

         In order to cover a wide range of customer  needs and price points,  we
market    precision    balances,     semimicrobalances,     microbalances    and
ultramicrobalances in three principal product tiers offering different levels of
functionality.  High-end  balances  provide  maximum  automation of calibration,
application support and additional functions.  Mid-level balances provide a more
limited but still extensive set of automated features and software applications.
Basic level  balances  provide simple  operations and a limited  feature set. We
also  manufacture  mass  comparators,  which are used by  weights  and  measures
regulators as well as laboratories to ensure the accuracy of reference  weights.




Due to the wide range of functions and features offered by our products,  prices
vary  significantly.   A  typical  mid-range  precision  balance  is  priced  at
approximately  $2,500  and a typical  microbalance  is  priced at  approximately
$14,000.

         We regularly  introduce new features and updated models in our lines of
balances.  For example, our DeltaRange models permit weighing of light and heavy
samples  on the same  balance  without  the need for  difficult  adjustments,  a
function  particularly  useful in  dispensing  and  formula  weighing.  High-end
balances  are  equipped  with  fully  automatic  calibration  technology.  These
balances are carefully  calibrated by us many times in controlled  environments,
with the results of the calibrations  incorporated  into built-in  software,  so
that adjustments for ambient  temperature and humidity can automatically be made
at any  time  once  the  balances  are in use by our  customers.  We also  offer
universal interfaces that offer simultaneous connection of up to five peripheral
devices.  The customer  can then  interface  one balance  with,  for example,  a
computer for further  processing of weighing  data, a printer for  automatically
printing results and a bar-code reader for sample identification.

         In addition to Mettler-Toledo branded products, we also manufacture and
sell balances  under the brand name  "Ohaus."  Ohaus  branded  products  include
mechanical balances and electronic balances for the educational market and other
markets in which  customers are  interested in lower cost, a more limited set of
features and less comprehensive support and service.

         Titrators.  Titrators measure the chemical  composition of samples. Our
high-end   titrators   are   multi-tasking   models,   which  can   perform  two
determinations  simultaneously.  They permit high  sample  throughputs  and have
extensive  expansion  capability and flexibility in calculations,  functions and
parameters.  Most models,  including  those in the  lower-range,  permit  common
determinations  to be stored in a database for frequent use.  Titrators are used
heavily  in the food and  beverage  industry.  A typical  titrator  is priced at
approximately $12,000.

         Thermal Analysis  Systems.  Thermal analysis systems measure  different
properties,  such as weight, dimension and energy flow, at varying temperatures.
Our  thermal  analysis   products  include  full  computer   integration  and  a
significant  amount of proprietary  software.  Thermal analysis systems are used
primarily in the plastics and polymer  industries.  A typical  thermal  analysis
system is priced at approximately $50,000.

         pH Meters.  A pH meter measures  acidity in a laboratory  sample and is
the second most widely used measurement instrument in the laboratory,  after the
balance. We manufacture  desktop models and portable models.  Desktop models are
microprocessor-based   instruments,  offering  a  wide  range  of  features  and
self-diagnostic functions. Portable models are waterproof, ultrasonically welded
and  ergonomically  designed.  Data  collected  from  a  portable  meter  can be
downloaded to a computer or printer using an interface kit and custom  software.
pH meters are used in a wide range of  industries.  A typical pH meter is priced
at approximately $1,200.

         Automatic  Lab  Reactors  and  Reaction  Calorimeters.   Automatic  lab
reactors and reaction  calorimeters  simulate an entire  chemical  manufacturing
process in the laboratory.  Customers use the simulation test before  proceeding
to production, in order to test the safety and feasibility of new processes. Our
products are fully  computer-integrated,  with a significant  software component
that we also provide.  They also offer wide  flexibility  in the  structuring of
experimental  processes.  Automatic lab reactors and reaction  calorimeters  are
typically  used in the chemicals and  pharmaceutical  industries.  A typical lab
reactor is priced at approximately $140,000.




         Synthesizers. We manufacture automated parallel synthesizers for use in
sophisticated chemistry environments, such as pharmaceutical laboratories. These
synthesizers  allow  scientists to develop new compounds more efficiently and to
create large  libraries  of molecules at the same time instead of creating  them
one  by  one  as  is  done  traditionally.   This  is  an  important  aspect  of
combinatorial   chemistry.  Our  synthesizers  use  robotics  and  sophisticated
software to automate what was previously a manual process. A  synthesizer  costs
between  $75,000  and   $1,000,000,   depending  on  its functionality.

         Electrodes.   We  manufacture  electrodes  for  use  in  a  variety  of
laboratory  instruments and in-line process applications.  Laboratory electrodes
are used in pH meters and  titrators,  and may be replaced many times during the
life  of  the  instrument.  In-line  process  electrodes  are  used  to  monitor
production  processes,  for example, in the beverage industry. A typical in-line
process electrode is priced at approximately $160.

         Pipettes. We have recently introduced  single-channel and multi-channel
pipettes which are used for liquid handling in the laboratory. These devices are
the most widely used  instruments  in the rapidly  growing life science  market.
Pipettes  range in price from  approximately  $270 to $780,  depending  on their
functionality.

         Other Instruments. We sell density and refractometry instruments, which
measure  chemical  concentrations  in solutions.  These  instruments are sourced
through a marketing joint venture with a third-party manufacturer,  but are sold
under the  Mettler-Toledo  brand name.  In  addition,  we  manufacture  and sell
moisture  analyzers,  which precisely determine the moisture content of a sample
by utilizing an infrared dryer to evaporate moisture.

Industrial and Food Retailing

         Weighing  instruments  are  among  the most  broadly  used  measurement
devices in  industry  and food  retailing.  Our  industrial  and food  retailing
weighing and related products include:

         o    bench and floor scales for standard industrial applications

         o    truck and railcar scales for heavy industrial applications

         o    scales for use in food retailing establishments

         o    checkweighers (which determine the weight of goods in motion)

         o    metal detectors

         o    dimensioning equipment

         o    specialized software systems for industrial and perishable goods
              management processes

         Increasingly,  many of our industrial  and food retailing  products can
integrate  weighing  data into process  controls and  information  systems.  Our
industrial  and food  retailing  products  are also sold to  original  equipment
manufacturers,  which incorporate our products into larger process solutions and
comprehensive  food retailing  checkout systems.  At the same time, our products
themselves  include  significant  software and  additional  functions  including




networking,   printing  and  labeling  capabilities.  They  also  include  other
measuring  technologies such as dimensioning.  We work with customer segments to
create specific solutions to their weighing needs. For instance, working closely
with the leading manufacturer of postal meters, we developed a new generation of
postal metering systems.

         Industrial and food retailing  products accounted for approximately 62%
of our net sales in 1998 (including  revenues from related after-sale  service).
We believe  that we have the largest  market  share in the  industrial  and food
retailing  market in each of Europe and the United  States.  In Asia,  we have a
substantial industrial and food retailing business which has gained market share
in recent  years.  This  business is supported by an  established  manufacturing
presence in China.  We believe  that we are the only  company with a true global
presence across industrial and food retailing weighing applications.

         Standard  Industrial  Products.  We offer a complete  line of  standard
industrial  scales,  such as bench scales and floor scales,  for weighing  loads
from a few grams to several  thousand  kilograms  in  applications  ranging from
measuring  materials in chemical  production to weighing mail and packages.  Our
product lines include the "Spider" range of scales,  often used in receiving and
shipping  departments  in  counting  applications;   "TrimWeigh"  scales,  which
determine  whether an item falls within a specified  weight range,  and are used
primarily in the food  industry;  "Mentor SC" scales,  for counting  parts;  and
precision  scales for  formulating  and  mixing  ingredients.  Our  "MultiRange"
products  include  standardized  software which uses the weight data obtained to
calculate  other  parameters,  such as price or number of  pieces.  The  modular
design of these products  facilitates the integration of our weighing  equipment
into a computer system  performing  other functions,  like inventory  control or
batch management.  Prices vary  significantly with the size and functions of the
scale, generally ranging from $1,000 to $20,000.

         Heavy Industrial  Products.  Our primary heavy industrial  products are
scales for weighing trucks or railcars (i.e.,  weighing bulk goods as they enter
a  factory  or at a toll  station).  Our  truck  scales,  such  as the  "DigiTol
TRUCKMATE,"   generally  have  digital  load  cells,   which  offer  significant
advantages in serviceability over analog load cells. Heavy industrial scales are
capable of measuring  weights up to 500 tons and permit accurate  weighing under
extreme environmental  conditions. We also offer advanced computer software that
can be used  with  our  heavy  industrial  scales  to  permit  a broad  range of
applications. Truck scale prices generally range from $20,000 to $50,000.

         Dynamic Checkweighing. We offer solutions to checkweighing requirements
in the food processing, pharmaceutical, chemicals and cosmetic industries, where
customers are required to accurately  measure  portions for  packaging.  We also
offer  checkweighing  solutions  to  the  transportation  and  package  delivery
industries,  where  tariffs are levied  based on weight.  Customizable  software
applications utilize the information generated by checkweighing hardware to find
production flaws, packaging and labeling errors and nonuniform products, as well
as to sort  rejects and record the  results.  Our  checkweighing  equipment  can
accurately  determine weight in dynamic  applications at speeds of up to several
hundred units per minute.  Checkweighers generally range in price from $8,000 to
$40,000.

         Metal Detection Systems. Metal detection systems control the removal of
products that are identified as contaminated  by metal during the  manufacturing
process in the food processing,  pharmaceutical,  cosmetics, chemicals and other
industries.   Metal  detectors   therefore  provide   manufacturers  with  vital
protection  against  metal  contamination  arising  from  their  own  production
processes or from using  contaminated  raw materials.  Metal  detectors are most




commonly used with checkweighers as components of integrated  packaging lines in
the food  processing,  pharmaceutical  and other  industries.  Prices  for metal
detection systems generally range from $5,000 to $20,000.

         Dimensioning  Equipment.  We recently introduced automated dimensioning
equipment for use in the shipping  industry to measure  package  volumes.  These
products employ the patented PILAR technology and are integrated with industrial
scales to combine volume-based and weight-based tariff calculations.  Prices for
integrated dimensioning/weighing systems range from $5,000 to $20,000.

         Food  Retailing  Products.  Supermarkets,  hypermarkets  and other food
retail  establishments  make use of multiple weighing  applications for the full
handling of  perishable  goods.  For  example,  perishable  goods are weighed on
arrival  to  determine  payment  to  suppliers  and  some  of  these  goods  are
repackaged, priced and labeled for sale to customers. Other goods are kept loose
and  selected by  customers  and either  weighed at the produce or  delicatessen
counter or at the checkout counter.

         We offer  stand-alone  scales for basic  counter  weighing and pricing,
price finding, and printing.  In addition, we offer network scales and software,
which can integrate backroom, counter,  self-service and checkout functions, and
can incorporate  weighing data into a  supermarket's  overall  perishable  goods
management system. Backroom products include dynamic weighing products, labeling
and wrapping machines,  perishable goods management and data processing systems.
In some countries in Europe, we also sell slicing and mincing equipment.  Prices
for food retailing  scales  generally  range from $500 to $5,000,  but are often
sold as part of comprehensive weighing solutions.

         Systems.  Our systems  business  consists of software  applications for
drum filling in the food and chemicals  industries  and batching  systems in the
glass  industry.  The  software  systems  control  or modify  the  manufacturing
process.

Customers and Distribution

         Our business is geographically diversified,  with sales in 1998 derived
46% from  Europe,  43% from North and South  America and 11% from Asia and other
countries.  Our customer base is also  diversified by industry and by individual
customer.  Our largest single  customer  accounted for no more than 2.6% of 1998
net sales.

Laboratory

         Principal   customers  for  laboratory   products  include:   chemicals
manufacturers,  pharmaceutical manufacturers,  cosmetics manufacturers, food and
beverage makers,  the metals industry,  the electronics  industry,  the plastics
industry,  the transportation  industry,  the packaging industry,  the logistics
industry,   the  rubber  industry,   the  jewelry  and  precious  metals  trade,
educational  institutions and government standards  laboratories.  Balances,  pH
meters and pipettes are the most widely used laboratory measurement  instruments
and are found in virtually every  laboratory  across a wide range of industries.
Other products have more specialized uses.

         Our  laboratory  products  are sold  through a  worldwide  distribution
network.  Our  extensive  direct  distribution  network  and our dealer  support
activities  enable us to  maintain  a  significant  degree of  control  over the
distribution of our products.





         In the United States where there are strong laboratory distributors, we
use them as the primary marketing channel for lower to mid-price products.  This
strategy allows us to leverage the strength of both the Mettler-Toledo brand and
the  laboratory  distributors'  market  position into sales of other  laboratory
measurement  instruments.  We provide our distributors with a significant amount
of technical and sales  support.  Mid to high-end  products in the United States
are handled by our own sales force.  There has been recent  consolidation  among
distributors  in the  United  States  market.  While  this  consolidation  could
adversely affect our U.S.  distribution,  we believe our leadership  position in
the  market  gives  us a  competitive  advantage  when  dealing  with  our  U.S.
distributors.

         We sell products in Asia through our own sales force and  distributors,
and in Europe primarily  through direct sales.  European and Asian  distributors
are generally fragmented on a country-by-country basis.

         Ohaus  branded   laboratory   balances  are  generally   positioned  in
alternative  distribution channels to those of Mettler-Toledo  branded products.
This  means  that we can fill a greater  number  of  distribution  channels  and
increase penetration of our existing markets.  Since acquiring Ohaus in 1990, we
have  expanded  this brand  beyond its  historical  U.S.  focus.  Ohaus  branded
products are sold exclusively through distributors.

Industrial and Food Retailing

         Our industrial  products  customers include chemicals  companies (e.g.,
formulating, filling and batching applications), food companies (e.g., packaging
and filling  applications),  electronics and metal  processing  companies (e.g.,
piece counting and logistical  applications),  pharmaceutical  companies  (e.g.,
formulating and filling applications),  transportation companies (e.g., sorting,
dimensioning and vehicle weighing applications) and auto body paint shops, which
mix paint colors based on weight.

         Our  industrial  products share  weighing  technology,  and often minor
modifications  to existing  products can make them useful for  applications in a
variety  of   industrial   processes.   We  also  sell  to  original   equipment
manufacturers  ("OEM's") which integrate our modules into larger process control
applications or  comprehensive  packaging lines. Our products are also purchased
by engineering  firms,  systems  integrators and vertical  application  software
companies.

         Customers for metal  detection  systems are typically food  processing,
pharmaceutical,  cosmetics  and  chemicals  manufacturers  that must ensure that
their products are free from contamination by metal particles.  Undetected metal
contamination  can have  severe  consequences  for  these  companies,  including
potential  litigation  and product  recalls.  Metal  detection  systems are most
commonly  utilized  together  with  checkweighers  as  components  of integrated
packaging lines. Metal detectors provide important safety checks before food and
other products are delivered to customers. Metal detection systems are also used
in pipeline  detectors  for dairy and other  liquids,  gravity  fall systems for
grains and sugar and throat detection systems for raw material monitoring.

         Our   food   retailing   products   customers   include   supermarkets,
hypermarkets and smaller food retailing  establishments.  The North American and
European markets already include many large supermarket  chains, and there is an
on-going shift in most of our food retailing  markets from "mom and pop" grocery
stores to supermarkets  and  hypermarkets.  While  supermarkets and hypermarkets
generally  buy less  equipment  per  customer,  they  tend to buy more  advanced




products that require more electronic and software content. In emerging markets,
however, the highest growth is in basic scales. As with industrial products,  we
also sell food  retailing  products to OEMs for inclusion in more  comprehensive
checkout  systems.  For example,  our OEMs often incorporate our checkout scales
into scanner-scales, which can weigh perishable goods and also read bar codes on
other items. Scanner-scales are in turn integrated with cash registers to form a
comprehensive checkout system.

         In the industrial and food retailing  market,  we sell both directly to
customers  (including  OEMs) and  through  distributors.  In the United  States,
direct sales slightly exceed distribution sales in part because distributors are
highly  fragmented in the United States.  In Europe,  direct sales  predominate,
with  distributors  used in certain  cases.  We sell products in Asia  primarily
through  distributors,  except in China where we sell  products  through our own
sales force and distributors. Where we use distributors, we seek to provide them
with significant support.

Sales and Service

Market Organizations

         We have over 30  geographically  focused market  organizations  ("MOs")
around the world that are  responsible for all aspects of our sales and service.
The MOs are local marketing and service organizations designed to maintain close
relationships  with our customer base.  Each MO has the flexibility to adapt its
marketing  and service  efforts to account for  different  cultural and economic
conditions.  MOs also work closely with our producing  organizations  (described
below)  by  providing   feedback  on  manufacturing   and  product   development
initiatives and relaying innovative product and application ideas.

         We have the only global sales and service  organization  among weighing
instruments  manufacturers.  At December 31, 1998,  our sales and services group
consisted of  approximately  3,250  employees in sales,  marketing  and customer
service (including related  administration)  and after-sales  technical service.
This field organization has the capability to provide service and support to our
customers and distributors in virtually all major markets across the globe.

         Sales managers and  representatives  interact  across product lines and
markets in order to serve  customers  that have a wide range of weighing  needs,
such as  pharmaceutical  companies that purchase both  laboratory and industrial
products.  We classify customers  according to their potential for sales and the
appropriate  distribution  channel  is  selected  to  service  the  customer  as
efficiently  as  possible.   Larger   accounts  tend  to  have  dedicated  sales
representatives.   Other  representatives  specialize  by  product  line.  Sales
representatives  call  directly on end-users  either alone or, in regions  where
sales are made through distributors, jointly with distributors.

         We utilize a variety of advertising  media,  including  trade journals,
catalogs,  exhibitions and trade shows. In addition,  we also sponsor  seminars,
product  demonstrations  and customer training  programs.  Our high market share
helps us to gauge  growth  opportunities,  target  our  message  to  appropriate
customer groups and monitor competitive  developments.  We utilize sophisticated
marketing  techniques  in  our  sales  efforts.  These  techniques  include  the
development and utilization of marketing  databases.  We develop these databases
to better  understand  the full  potential of our market by customer,  location,
industry, instruments and related application. We then utilize this data to more
efficiently direct our field resources and complement our direct and distributor
sales forces with  targeted  mailing and  telemarketing  campaigns to more fully
exploit our market's potential.




         We also utilize a dual brand  strategy for certain  market  segments to
improve our overall market penetration. For example, we sell laboratory balances
under the Ohaus brand name as an alternative to the Mettler-Toledo brand name in
certain distribution channels.

After-Sales Service

         We believe service  capabilities  are a critical  success factor in our
business. Through our own dedicated service technicians, we provide contract and
repair  services in all  countries in which our  products are sold.  We estimate
that we have the largest  installed  base of weighing  instruments in the world,
and our contract and repair services  generate  significant  revenues.  In 1998,
service  (representing   service  contracts,   repairs  and  replacement  parts)
accounted  for  approximately  16% of our total net sales  (service  revenue  is
included in the laboratory and industrial and food retailing  sales  percentages
given above). Approximately half of this amount is derived from spare parts with
the  remaining   portion   derived  from  service   contacts.   Beyond   revenue
opportunities,  service  is a  key  part  of  our  product  offering  and  helps
significantly in generating  repeat sales. The close  relationships and frequent
contact with our large  customer base provides us with sales  opportunities  and
innovative  product and  application  ideas. A global service network also is an
important  factor in our ability to expand in emerging  markets.  Moreover,  the
widespread  adoption of quality  laboratory and manufacturing  standards and the
privatization of weights and measures  certification  represent favorable trends
for  our  service  business,  as  they  tend  to  increase  demand  for  on-site
calibration services.

         Our  service  contracts  provide  for repair  services  within  various
guaranteed  response  times,  depending on the level of service  selected.  Many
contracts also include periodic calibration and testing. Contracts are generally
one year in length,  but may be longer.  If the service  contract  also includes
products of other manufacturers, we will generally perform calibration,  testing
and basic repairs  directly,  and contract out more significant  repair work. As
application  software  becomes more complex,  our service  efforts  increasingly
include installation and customer training programs as well as product service.

Research and Development; Manufacturing

Producing Organizations

         Our  product  development,   research  and  manufacturing  efforts  are
organized  into a number of  producing  organizations  ("POs").  At December 31,
1998, POs included  approximately  3,950  employees  worldwide.  POs are product
development  teams  comprised  of  personnel  from our  marketing,  development,
research, manufacturing,  engineering and purchasing departments. POs often seek
customer  input to ensure that the  products  developed  are  tailored to market
needs.  We have organized our POs to reduce product  development  time,  improve
customer focus, reduce costs and maintain technological leadership. The POs work
together to share ideas and best  practices,  and some employees are in both MOs
and POs.  We recently  implemented  a number of  projects  that we believe  will
further increase  productivity and lower costs. For example, we restructured the
order and product delivery process in Europe to enable us to deliver many of our
products  to our  customers  directly  from the  manufacturing  facility  within
several  days,  which  minimizes  the need to store  products  in  decentralized
warehouses.  In addition, we have centralized our European spare parts inventory
management  system  allowing all spare parts for Europe to be  delivered  from a
single, highly automated location.





Research and Product Development

         We  closely   integrate   research  and  development   with  marketing,
manufacturing  and  product  engineering.  We have  over  600  professionals  in
research  and  development  and  product  engineering.   Our  principal  product
development  activities  involve  applications  improvements to provide enhanced
customer solutions, systems integration and product cost reduction.  However, we
also conduct  research in basic weighing  technologies.  As part of our research
and development  activities,  we have frequent contact with university  experts,
industry professionals and the governmental agencies responsible for weights and
measures,  analytical instruments and metal detectors. In addition, our in-house
development is complemented by technology and product development alliances with
customers and original equipment manufacturers.

         Our MonoBloc weighing sensor  technology,  which eliminates many of the
complex mechanical linkages in a weighing sensor and reduces the number of parts
in a sensor from  approximately 100 to approximately 50, is an excellent example
of our  technological  innovation.  The MonoBloc  sensor  permits more  accurate
weighing,  and lower  manufacturing  costs allow us to make design  changes more
cheaply and quickly.  MonoBloc technology is already  incorporated into a number
of our products,  and we are extending the MonoBloc  technology  through much of
our weighing instrument product lines.

         We  have  devoted  an   increasing   proportion  of  our  research  and
development budget to software  development.  Software  development for weighing
applications  includes  application-specific   software,  as  well  as  software
utilized in sensor mechanisms,  displays, and other common components, which can
be leveraged across our broad product lines.

         Over the last three years, we have spent  approximately $150 million on
research  and  development  (excluding  research  and  development  purchased in
connection with acquisitions). In 1998, we spent approximately 5.6% of net sales
on research and development  (including costs associated with  customer-specific
engineering  projects,  which  are  included  in cost  of  sales  for  financial
reporting purposes).

Manufacturing

         We manufacture  many of our own components,  including  components that
require specific  technical  competence,  or for which dependable,  high quality
suppliers  cannot  be  found.   However,  when  outside  manufacturing  is  more
efficient,  we contract with others for certain components and in turn use these
components in our own manufacturing  processes. We use a wide range of suppliers
and we believe our supply arrangements to be adequate. From time to time we rely
on a single supplier for all of our requirements of a particular component. Even
then, adequate alternative sources are generally available if necessary.  Supply
arrangements  for  electronics  are  generally  made  globally.  For  mechanical
components, we generally use local sources to optimize materials flow.

         We strive to emphasize product quality in our manufacturing operations,
and  most  of  our   products   require   very  strict   tolerances   and  exact
specifications.  We use an extensive  quality  control system that is integrated
into each step of the  manufacturing  process.  This  integration  permits field
service  technicians to trace important  information  about the manufacture of a
particular unit, which facilitates repair efforts and permits fine-tuning of the
manufacturing  process.  Many of our measuring  instruments  are subjected to an
extensive   calibration  process  that  allows  the  software  in  the  unit  to
automatically adjust for the impact of temperature and humidity.




         We are a worldwide manufacturer,  with nine manufacturing plants in the
United States,  four in Switzerland,  two in Germany,  two in the United Kingdom
and two in China. One of our Chinese plants is a joint venture in which we own a
60% interest.  Laboratory  products are produced  mainly in Switzerland and to a
lesser  extent  in the  United  States  and  China,  while  industrial  and food
retailing  products  are  produced in all five  countries.  We produce our metal
detectors  in the United  Kingdom.  We have  manufacturing  expertise  in sensor
technology, precision machining and electronics, as well as strength in software
development. Furthermore, most of our manufacturing facilities have achieved ISO
9001 certification.  We believe that our manufacturing capacity is sufficient to
meet our present and currently anticipated needs.

Backlog

         Manufacturing  turnaround time is generally sufficiently short so as to
permit us to manufacture to fill orders for most of our products, which helps to
limit inventory  costs.  Backlog is therefore  generally a function of requested
customer delivery dates and is typically no longer than one to two months.

Employees

         As  of  December  31,  1998,  we  had  approximately   7,200  employees
throughout the world,  including more than 3,600 in Europe,  approximately 2,650
in North and South America,  and  approximately 950 in Asia and other countries.
We  believe  our  employee  relations  are good,  and we have not  suffered  any
material  employee  work  stoppage or strike  during the last five years.  Labor
unions do not represent a meaningful number of our employees.

         In certain of our facilities, we have a flexible workforce environment,
in which hours vary depending on the workload. This flexible working environment
enhances employees' involvement,  thus increasing productivity. It also improves
efficient  payroll  management  by  permitting  us to adjust  staffing  to match
workload to a greater degree without changing the size of the overall workforce.

Intellectual Property

         We hold more than 1,100 patents and trademarks, primarily in the United
States,  Switzerland,  Germany and Japan and, to a lesser extent,  in China. Our
products generally incorporate a wide variety of technological innovations, many
of which are protected by patents and many of which are not. Moreover,  products
are generally not protected as a whole by individual  patents.  Accordingly,  no
one patent or group of related patents is material to our business. We also have
numerous  trademarks,  including  the  Mettler-Toledo  name and logo  which  are
material to our  business.  We regularly  protect  against  infringement  of our
intellectual property.

Regulation

         Our products are subject to various regulatory  standards and approvals
by weights  and  measures  regulatory  authorities.  Although  there are a large
number of regulatory  agencies across our markets,  there is an increasing trend
toward  harmonization  of  standards,  and weights and  measures  regulation  is
harmonized  across the European  Union.  Our food  processing and food retailing
products  are subject to  regulation  and  approvals  by  relevant  governmental
agencies, such as the United States Food and Drug Administration.  Products used
in hazardous  environments may also be subject to special  requirements.  All of
our electrical components are subject to electrical safety standards. We believe
that we are in compliance in all material respects with applicable regulations.




Environmental Matters

         We are subject to a variety of  environmental  laws and  regulations in
the  jurisdictions  in which we operate,  including  provisions  relating to air
emissions,  wastewater  discharges,  the  handling  and  disposal  of solid  and
hazardous  wastes and the remediation of  contamination  associated with the use
and disposal of hazardous  substances.  We wholly or partly own, lease or hold a
direct or indirect equity  interest in a number of properties and  manufacturing
facilities  around  the world,  including  the United  States,  Europe,  Canada,
Mexico,  Brazil,  Australia  and China.  Like many of our  competitors,  we have
incurred,  and will continue to incur,  capital and operating  expenditures  and
other  costs in  complying  with such laws and  regulations  in both the  United
States and abroad.

         We are currently involved in, or have potential  liability with respect
to, the remediation of past  contamination  in certain of our facilities in both
the United  States and abroad.  In  addition,  certain of our present and former
facilities  have or had been in operation  for many decades and, over such time,
some of these  facilities may have used  substances or generated and disposed of
wastes which are or may be considered hazardous. It is possible that such sites,
as well as disposal  sites owned by third  parties to which we have sent wastes,
may in  the  future  be  identified  and  become  the  subject  of  remediation.
Accordingly,  although we believe  that we are in  substantial  compliance  with
applicable environmental  requirements and to date we have not incurred material
expenditures in connection with  environmental  matters,  it is possible that we
could become subject to additional environmental  liabilities in the future that
could result in a material adverse effect on our financial  condition or results
of operations.

         We are  involved in  litigation  concerning  remediation  of  hazardous
substances  at a facility in  Landing,  New  Jersey.  On or about July 1988,  an
affiliate of Ciba ("AGP")  purchased 100% of the outstanding stock of Metramatic
Corporation ("Metramatic"), a manufacturer of checkweighing equipment located in
Landing, from GEI International Corporation ("GEI"). GEI agreed to indemnify and
hold harmless AGP for certain pre-closing  environmental  conditions,  including
those  resulting  in  cleanup  responsibilities   required  by  the  New  Jersey
Department of Environmental  Protection pursuant to the New Jersey Environmental
Cleanup  Responsibility  Act ("ECRA").  ECRA is now the Industrial Site Recovery
Act.  Pursuant  to a 1988 New  Jersey  Department  of  Environmental  Protection
administrative  consent order naming GEI and Metramatic as respondents,  GEI has
spent  approximately $2 million in the performance of certain  investigatory and
remedial  work  addressing  groundwater  contamination  at  the  site.  However,
implementation  of a final remedy has not yet been  completed,  and,  therefore,
future remedial costs are currently  unknown.  In 1992, GEI filed a suit against
various  parties  including  Hi-Speed  Checkweigher  Co., Inc., our wholly owned
subsidiary  that currently owns the facility,  to recover certain costs incurred
by GEI in connection with the site. Based on currently available information and
our rights of indemnification  from GEI, we believe that our ultimate allocation
of costs  associated with the past and future  investigation  and remediation of
this site will not have a material adverse effect on our financial  condition or
results of operations.

         We, or in some cases the former owner of Toledo Scale,  have been named
a potentially  responsible party under CERCLA or analogous state statutes at the
following  third-party  owned sites with respect to the alleged  disposal at the




sites by Toledo Scale during the period before we owned it:  Granville  Solvents
Site,  Granville,  Ohio;  Aqua-Tech  Environmental,   Inc.  Site,  Greer,  South
Carolina;  Seaboard Chemical Company Site,  Jamestown,  North Carolina;  and the
Stickney and Tyler Landfills in Toledo, Ohio. Pursuant to the terms of the stock
purchase  agreement  between us and the former owner of Toledo Scale, the former
owner is obligated to indemnify  us for various  environmental  liabilities.  To
date,  with  respect  to each of the  foregoing  sites,  the  former  owner  has
undertaken the defense and  indemnification  of Toledo Scale. Based on currently
available  information and given our contractual rights of  indemnification,  we
believe that the costs  associated  with the  investigation  and  remediation of
these sites will not have a material  adverse effect on our financial  condition
or results of operations.

Competition

         Our markets are highly competitive.  Furthermore,  weighing instruments
markets are fragmented both geographically and by application,  particularly the
industrial and food retailing weighing  instruments market. As a result, we face
numerous regional or specialized competitors, many of which are well established
in their markets.  In addition,  some of our competitors are divisions of larger
companies with potentially  greater  financial and other resources than our own.
Taken  together,  the  competitive  forces present in our markets can impair our
operating margins in certain product lines and geographic markets.

         We expect  our  competitors  to  continue  to  improve  the  design and
performance  of their  products and to introduce new products  with  competitive
prices.  Although  we  believe  that we have  certain  technological  and  other
advantages  over our  competitors,  we may not be able to realize  and  maintain
these  advantages.  In any event,  to remain  competitive,  we must  continue to
invest in research and development, sales and marketing and customer service and
support. We cannot be sure that we will have sufficient resources to continue to
make these investments or that we will be successful in identifying,  developing
and maintaining any competitive advantages.

         We believe that the principal  competitive  factors in our U.S. markets
for purchasing  decisions are accuracy and durability,  while in Europe accuracy
and service are the most important factors. In emerging markets,  where there is
greater demand for less sophisticated products, price is a more important factor
than in developed markets. Competition in the United States laboratory market is
also  influenced  by the presence of large  distributors  that sell not only our
products but those of our competitors as well.





Item 2.       PROPERTIES

         The  following   table  lists  our  principal   operating   facilities,
indicating  the  location,  primary  use and  whether  the  facility is owned or
leased.

Location                              Principal Use (1)             Owned/Leased
Europe:
   Greifensee/Nanikon, Switzerland..  Production, 
                                      Corporate Headquarters               Owned
   Uznach, Switzerland..............  Production                           Owned
   Urdorf, Switzerland..............  Production                           Owned
   Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.......  Production                          Leased
   Albstadt, Germany................  Production                           Owned
   Giesen, Germany..................  Production                           Owned
   Giessen, Germany.................  Sales and Service                    Owned
   Steinbach, Germany...............  Sales and Service                    Owned
   Viroflay, France.................  Sales and Service                    Owned
   Beersel, Belgium.................  Sales and Service                    Owned
   Sint-Michielsgestel, Netherlands.  Sales and Service                   Leased
   Tiel, Netherlands................  Sales and Service                    Owned
   Leicester, England...............  Sales and Service                   Leased
   Manchester, England..............  Production, Sales and Service       Leased
   Royston, England.................  Production, Sales and Service       Leased

Americas:
   Columbus, Ohio...................  Sales and Service, 
                                      North America Headquarters          Leased
   Worthington, Ohio................  Production                           Owned
   Spartanburg, South Carolina......  Production                           Owned
   Franksville, Wisconsin...........  Production                           Owned
   Ithaca, New York.................  Production                           Owned
   Wilmington, Massachusetts........  Production                          Leased
   Florham Park, New Jersey.........  Production, Sales and Service       Leased
   Millersville, Maryland...........  Production, Sales and Service       Leased
   Tampa, Florida...................  Production, Sales and Service       Leased
   Vernon Hills, Illinois...........  Production, Sales and Service       Leased
   Burlington, Canada...............  Sales and Service                   Leased
   Mexico City, Mexico..............  Sales and Service                   Leased
   San Paolo, Brazil................  Production and Sales                Leased

Other:
   Shanghai, China..................  Production                 Building Owned;
                                                                     Land Leased
   Changzhou, China (2).............  Production                 Building Owned;
                                                                     Land Leased
   Melbourne, Australia.............  Sales and Service                   Leased
   Mumbai, India....................  Production, Sales and Service       Leased

(1)      We also conduct  research and development  activities at certain of the
         listed facilities in Switzerland,  Germany, the United States and, to a
         lesser extent, China.
(2)      Held by a joint venture in which we own a 60% interest.


         We believe our  facilities  are adequate for our current and reasonably
anticipated future needs.




ITEM 3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         Routine litigation is incidental to our business.  Nevertheless, we are
not  currently  involved in any legal  proceeding  which we believe could have a
material  adverse effect upon our financial  condition or results of operations.
See  "Environmental  Matters"  under Part I, Item 1 for  information  concerning
legal proceedings relating to certain environmental claims.

         Our products generally are sold with a limited warranty for defects. We
have  reviewed our  products  currently in use by customers or being sold and do
not believe that we will have material increase in warranty or product liability
claims arising out of Year 2000  non-compliance.  However, any material increase
in these claims could harm our results of operations.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         None.




                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
         MATTERS

MARKET INFORMATION FOR COMMON STOCK

         Our  common  stock  began  trading on the New York  Stock  Exchange  on
November 14, 1997 under the symbol  "MTD." The  following  table sets forth on a
per share basis the high and low sales  prices for  consolidated  trading in our
common stock as reported on the New York Stock  Exchange  Composite Tape for the
quarters indicated.

                                                            Price Range
                                                      High               Low
    Fourth Quarter (beginning November 14, 1997)    $18 3/4            $14 1/16

    First Quarter                                    22  3/8            16 9/16
    Second Quarter                                   22  1/4            18
    Third Quarter                                    22 11/16           16 1/4
    Fourth Quarter                                   28 15/16           16 3/4

HOLDERS

         At March 8, 1999  there  were 556  holders  of  record of common  stock
and 38,400,363 shares of common stock outstanding.  The  number of holders of 
record excludes beneficial owners of common stock held in street name.

DIVIDEND POLICY

         We have never  paid any  dividends  on our  common  stock and we do not
anticipate  paying any cash  dividends  on the common  stock in the  foreseeable
future.  The current  policy of our Board of Directors is to retain  earnings to
finance the  operations  and  expansion of our  business.  Moreover,  our credit
agreement  restricts our ability to pay dividends.  Any future  determination to
pay dividends  will depend on our results of  operations,  financial  condition,
capital requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant
by our Board of Directors.





ITEM 6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The  selected  historical  financial  information  set  forth  below at
December 31, 1994,  1995,  1996, 1997 and 1998, for the years ended December 31,
1994 and 1995,  for the period from January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996, for the
period  from  October  15,  1996 to  December  31,  1996 and for the years ended
December  31,  1997  and  1998  is  derived  from  our  consolidated   financial
statements,  which were audited by KPMG Fides Peat,  independent  auditors.  The
financial information for all periods prior to October 15, 1996, the date of the
Acquisition,  is combined financial  information of the Mettler-Toledo  group of
companies (the  "Predecessor  Business").  The combined  historical  data of the
Predecessor Business and the consolidated historical data of the Company are not
comparable in many respects due to the Acquisition and the Safeline acquisition.
See  Part  II,  Item 7,  "Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial
Condition  and  Results  of  Operations"  below and the  consolidated  financial
statements and  accompanying  notes included herein.  The financial  information
presented below was prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.








ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

         The following  discussion  and analysis of our financial  condition and
results  of  operations   should  be  read  in  conjunction   with  our  audited
consolidated financial statements.

Overview

         We operate a global  business,  with net sales that are  diversified by
geographic region, product range and customer. We hold leading positions in many
of our markets and attribute this leadership to several  factors,  including the
strength of our brand name, the quality of our global sales and service network,
our  continued  investment  in product  development,  our pursuit of  technology
leadership  and our focus on  capitalizing  on  opportunities  in developed  and
emerging markets.

         Our financial  information  is presented in accordance  with U.S. GAAP.
Financial results following the acquisition of Mettler-Toledo from Ciba-Geigy in
October  1996,  the  Safeline  acquisition  in May 1997 and our  initial  public
offering in November  1997 are not  comparable in many respects to the financial
results prior to those events.

         Net sales in local currency increased 8% in 1998, 11% in 1997 and 3% in
1996  (adjusted  for our exit in 1996  from  certain  systems  businesses).  The
strengthening  of the U.S.  dollar versus our major trading  currencies  reduced
U.S.  dollar  reported sales growth in 1998 and 1997. Net sales in U.S.  dollars
increased  by 7% and 3% during  1998 and 1997,  respectively.  Net sales in U.S.
dollars were unchanged in 1996.

         In 1998, we had solid local currency sales growth of 10% in both Europe
and  the  Americas.  However,  economic  conditions  in  emerging  markets  have
deteriorated   significantly   and  some  emerging   markets  are   experiencing
recessionary  trends,  severe currency  devaluations  and  inflationary  prices.
Moreover,  economic problems in individual markets are increasingly spreading to
other  economies,  adding to the adverse  conditions  facing nearly all emerging
markets.  The effects of these economic conditions can be seen in the 1998 local
currency  sales  decline in Asia and other  markets of 4% compared  to 1997.  We
remain committed to emerging markets,  particularly those in Asia, Latin America
and Eastern Europe.  We believe emerging markets will provide  opportunities for
growth in the long term based upon the  movement  toward  international  quality
standards,  the need to upgrade mechanical scales to electronic versions and the
establishment of local production  facilities by our multinational  client base.
However,  we expect current economic conditions may affect our financial results
in these markets for the foreseeable future.

         We  believe  our sales  growth  over the next  several  years will come
primarily  from (i) the needs of our lab and  industrial  customers in developed
markets to continue to automate their research and development and manufacturing
processes,  (ii) the needs of our retail  customers  in Europe to upgrade  their
scales  for the  implementation  of the  Euro,  (iii)  the  needs of our  retail
customers to implement  sophisticated  perishable goods management systems using
weighing  and PC  technology  in a  networked  environment,  (iv)  the  needs of
customers in emerging markets to continue  modernizing  research and development
and  manufacturing  processes  through  the  use of  increasingly  sophisticated
instruments, and (v) acquisition opportunities.



         We increased our gross profit margin before  non-recurring  acquisition
costs from 41.1% in 1996 to 44.4% in 1998 and increased  our Adjusted  Operating
Income  (gross  profit less research and  development  and selling,  general and
administrative  expenses  before  amortization  and  non-recurring  costs)  as a
percentage of net sales from 6.8% in 1996 to 10.8% in 1998.

         This   improved   performance   was  achieved   despite  our  continued
investments in product  development and in our  distribution  and  manufacturing
infrastructure.  We believe that a  significant  portion of the increases in our
Adjusted   Operating   Income  resulted  from  our  strategy  to  reduce  costs,
re-engineer our operations and focus on the highest value-added  segments of the
markets in which we compete.

Recent Acquisitions

         We are the leading  provider of  automated  lab  reactors  and reaction
calorimeters  to  the  automated  drug  and  chemical  compound   discovery  and
development  market. We believe that our customers want solutions in this market
from a company like Mettler-Toledo, with a reputation for innovation and quality
and with a global presence and service network.

         In July 1998, we extended our product  offerings to the automated  drug
and chemical compound discovery market with our acquisition of Bohdan Automation
Inc.  Bohdan  is a leading  supplier  of  laboratory  automation  and  automated
synthesis   products  used  in  research  for  life  science   applications  for
pharmaceutical  and agricultural  products and in other applications in the food
and chemicals industries.

         In December 1998, we announced that we had acquired two technologically
advanced   instrument   companies,   Applied  Systems  and  Myriad   Synthesizer
Technology.  Although these businesses are not currently significant in size, we
believe these  acquisitions  are key elements in our strategic effort to further
build a  leading  position  in the  field of  automated  solutions  for drug and
chemical compound  discovery and development.  These  acquisitions  enable us to
offer a strong and comprehensive array of solutions,  from sample preparation to
compound synthesis to process development.

         Applied  Systems  designs,   assembles  and  markets   instruments  for
in-process  molecular  analysis,   which  is  primarily  used  for  researching,
developing and  monitoring  chemical  processes.  Applied  Systems'  proprietary
sensors,  together with its innovative  Fourier transform  infrared  technology,
enable  chemists to analyze  chemical  reactions  as they  occur,  which is more
efficient than pulling samples.

         Myriad   Synthesizer   Technology   designs,   assembles   and  markets
instruments  that  facilitate  and  automate the  synthesis of large  numbers of
chemical  compounds  in parallel,  which is a key step in the chemical  compound
discovery  process.  Its products can be used in all stages of synthesis in drug
discovery.

         In May 1997,  we  acquired  Safeline  Limited.  Safeline is the world's
largest  manufacturer and marketer of metal detection systems for companies that
produce and package  goods in the food  processing,  pharmaceutical,  cosmetics,
chemicals and other industries.  Safeline's metal detectors can also be combined
with our checkweighing products for important quality and safety checks in these
industries.   The  financing  of  the  Safeline   acquisition  is  discussed  in
"--Liquidity and Capital Resources."





Secondary Offering and IPO

         In July  1998,  certain  selling  shareholders  completed  a  secondary
offering of a total of  11,464,400  shares of our common  stock,  including  the
underwriters' over-allotment options. No directors,  executive officers or other
employees  sold  shares,  and we did not sell shares or receive  proceeds in the
offering.  We incurred a charge of $0.7 million in connection  with the offering
during the second quarter of 1998.

         During the fourth  quarter of 1997,  we  completed  our initial  public
offering  of  7,666,667  shares of common  stock,  including  the  underwriters'
over-allotment  options,  at a per share  price of $14.00 (the  "IPO").  The IPO
raised  net  proceeds,   after   underwriters'   commission  and  expenses,   of
approximately  $97.3  million.  Concurrently  with the IPO,  we  refinanced  our
existing credit facility by entering into a new credit facility, borrowings from
which,  along with the proceeds from the IPO,  were used to repay  substantially
all of our then-existing  debt,  including all of our 9 3/4% senior subordinated
notes  due  2006  (collectively,  the  "Refinancing").  In  connection  with the
Refinancing,  we recorded an extraordinary  charge of $31.6 million, net of tax,
principally for prepayment premiums on certain debt repaid and for the write-off
of existing deferred financing fees. We also paid a one-time  termination fee of
$2.5 million in connection  with the  termination of our  management  consulting
agreement with AEA Investors Inc.

Cost Reduction Programs

         In 1997, we recorded  restructuring charges totaling approximately $6.3
million  in  connection  with the  consolidation  of three  facilities  in North
America.  The charges related to severance and other related  benefits and costs
of exiting  facilities,  including  lease  termination  costs and  write-down of
existing   assets  to  their  expected  net  realizable   value.   The  facility
consolidations  are  part  of  our  ongoing  efforts  to  reduce  costs  through
re-engineering. When complete, the facility consolidations will result in annual
cost savings estimated at approximately $2.5 million.  During 1998 most of these
actions were  completed,  including the sale of two of the  facilities  for over
$5.0 million. We continuously implement cost reduction programs.





Results of Operations

         The  following  table sets forth  certain  items from the  consolidated
statements  of  operations  for the period  from  January 1, 1996 to October 14,
1996,  for the period from October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996,  pro forma for
the year 1996 and actual for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998. The pro
forma  1996  information   gives  effect  to  the   Acquisition,   the  Safeline
acquisition, the IPO and the Refinancing as if such transactions had occurred on
January 1, 1996,  and does not purport to represent  our actual  results if such
transactions had occurred on such date. The pro forma 1996 information  reflects
the historical results of operations of the Predecessor  Business for the period
from  January  1,  1996 to  October  14,  1996  and the  historical  results  of
operations  of the Company for the period from  October 15, 1996 to December 31,
1996,  together  with  certain pro forma  adjustments  as described  below.  The
consolidated  statement of operations  data for the year ended December 31, 1997
includes  Safeline  results  from May 31, 1997.  The pro forma 1996  information
includes  Safeline's  historical  results of operations for all of 1996. The pro
forma  information is presented in order to facilitate  management's  discussion
and analysis.






Year Ended December 31, 1998 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1997

         Net sales were $935.7  million for the year ended  December  31,  1998,
compared to $878.4  million in the prior year.  This reflected an increase of 8%
in local  currency  (6%  including  Safeline  for full year 1997)  during  1998.
Results  for 1998 were  negatively  impacted  by the  strengthening  of the U.S.
dollar against other currencies. Net sales in U.S. dollars during 1998 increased
7%.

         Net sales in Europe  increased  10% in local  currencies  during  1998,
versus the prior year. We have continued to experience favorable sales trends in
Europe, which began in the second half of 1997, as a result of the strengthening
of the  European  economy.  Net  sales in local  currencies  during  1998 in the
Americas  also  increased  10% due to  improved  market  conditions  across most
product lines,  offset in part by weakness in Latin America.  Net sales in local
currencies in 1998 in Asia and other markets  decreased 4%. The sales decline in
Asia during 1998 results in part from a decline in net sales in  Southeast  Asia
and Korea.  In addition,  during the second half of 1998 we also  experienced  a
decline in net sales in Japan. Our sales and operating results in Asia and other
emerging markets deteriorated due to poor economic conditions.  These results in
U.S.  dollar terms have also been affected by severe currency  devaluations.  We
anticipate  that  market  conditions  in Asia and  other  emerging  markets  may
continue  to  adversely  affect  sales and that  margins  in that  region may be
reduced.  We believe that our sales growth on a U.S. dollar basis was reduced by
1 to 2  percentage  points  during  1998 as a  result  of  these  poor  economic
conditions and devaluations.

         The operating  results for Safeline (which were included in our results
from May 31, 1997) would have had the effect of  increasing  our net sales by an
additional   $19.0   million  in  1997,   if  included  from  January  1,  1997.
Additionally,  Safeline's  operating  results  during the same period would have
increased  our  Adjusted  Operating  Income  (gross  profit  less  research  and
development and selling, general and administrative expenses before amortization
and non-recurring costs) by $4.4 million.

         Gross profit as a percentage of net sales  increased to 44.4% for 1998,
compared  to 44.1% for 1997 before  non-recurring  acquisition  costs.  The 1997
period  excludes a $2.1 million  non-cash  charge  associated with the excess of
fair  value  over  historical  cost for  inventories  acquired  in the  Safeline
acquisition.

         Research  and  development  expenses  as  a  percentage  of  net  sales
decreased to 5.2% for 1998,  compared to 5.4% for the prior year.  However,  the
local currency spending level remained relatively constant for the year.

         In July 1998, we acquired Bohdan Automation Inc., a leading supplier of
laboratory  automation and automated synthesis products. We incurred a charge of
$10.0 million  immediately  following the acquisition  based upon an independent
valuation  for  purchased  research and  development  costs for  products  being
developed that have not established  technological feasibility as of the date of
the  acquisition  which,  if  unsuccessful,  have no alternative  future use. We
expect that the projects  underlying these research and development efforts will
be substantially completed over the next two years.

         Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses as a percentage  of net
sales  decreased to 28.4% for 1998,  compared to 29.6% for the prior year.  This
decrease primarily reflects the benefits of ongoing cost efficiency programs.




         Adjusted  Operating  Income was $101.0 million,  or 10.8% of sales, for
1998,  compared  to $81.5  million,  or 9.3% of sales,  for the prior  year,  an
increase of 23.8%.  The 1997 period excludes the previously noted charge of $2.1
million for the  revaluation of inventories to fair value in connection with the
Safeline  acquisition and $2.5 million in connection with the termination of our
management services agreement with AEA Investors at the time of our IPO.

         Interest expense decreased to $22.6 million for 1998, compared to $35.9
million  for the prior  year.  The  decrease  was  principally  due to  benefits
received from our IPO, Refinancing and cash flow provided by operations.

         Other  charges,  net were  $1.2  million  for 1998,  compared  to other
charges,  net of $10.8  million for the prior year.  The 1998 amount  includes a
one-time charge of $0.7 million relating to the secondary  offering completed in
July 1998.  The 1998 amount also  includes  gains on asset sales offset by other
charges. The 1997 period includes  restructuring related charges of $6.3 million
and other  charges of $3.5  million  ($2.9  million  after tax)  relating to (i)
certain derivative financial instruments acquired in 1996 and closed in 1997 and
(ii) foreign currency  exchange losses resulting from certain unhedged bank debt
denominated in foreign  currencies.  Such derivative  financial  instruments and
such unhedged bank debt are no longer held pursuant to current Company policy.

         The tax rate for 1998 includes a benefit of  approximately 5 percentage
points based upon a one-time  change in Swiss tax law which  benefited  only the
1998  period.  The 1998  period  also  includes  efficiencies  in our global tax
structure, offset by the non-deductibility of purchased research and development
charges incurred in connection with the Bohdan acquisition.

         The extraordinary  loss of $41.2 million in 1997 represents charges for
the early repayment premium on our senior  subordinated  notes and the write-off
of  capitalized  debt issuance  fees and related  expenses  associated  with our
senior subordinated notes and previous credit facilities.

         Net  earnings   excluding  the  expenses  for  purchased  research  and
development and the secondary offering were $48.3 million in 1998, compared with
net  earnings  before  non-recurring  items  of  $19.1  million  in  1997.  Such
non-recurring  items  in 1997  include  the  previously  mentioned  charges  for
purchased  research and  development,  the  revaluation  of  inventories to fair
value, the termination fee paid to AEA Investors,  restructuring charges, losses
relating to derivative financial  instruments and unhedged bank debt denominated
in foreign currencies, and extraordinary items - debt extinguishment.  Including
non-recurring items, net earnings for 1998 were $37.6 million,  compared with a 
net loss in 1997 of $65.1 million.

Year Ended December 31, 1997 Compared to Pro Forma Year Ended December 31, 1996

         Net sales were $878.4 million for 1997,  compared to pro forma 1996 net
sales of $889.6 million. As previously described, pro forma 1996 includes a full
year of  Safeline's  operating  results,  while 1997 only includes the operating
results of Safeline from May 31, 1997. Net sales in local currencies  during the
year  increased  11%  (excluding  Safeline  results  from pro forma 1996) and 7%
(excluding Safeline results from both pro forma 1996 and actual 1997).

         Net  sales  in  local  currencies  in 1997 in  Europe  increased  6% as
compared to net sales in local currencies in pro forma 1996 (excluding  Safeline
results from pro forma 1996). Net sales in local  currencies  during 1997 in the
Americas increased 11%,  principally due to improved market conditions for sales




to industrial and food  retailing  customers.  Net sales in local  currencies in
1997 in Asia and  other  markets  increased  30%,  primarily  as a result of the
establishment  of additional  direct  marketing and  distribution in the region.
During the six months ended December 31, 1997,  sales trends in Europe were more
favorable  compared to sales trends in the first two quarters of 1997.  Overall,
our business in Asia and other markets  remained solid.  However,  growth in net
sales in Southeast Asia and Korea (which collectively represent approximately 3%
of our total net sales for 1997) slowed.

         The  operating  results for Safeline  (which as  previously  noted were
included in our results from May 31, 1997) had the effect of increasing  our net
sales by $28.5 million for 1997. Additionally,  Safeline's operating results had
the effect of increasing our Adjusted  Operating  Income by $7.1 million for the
same period. We recorded non-cash purchase accounting  adjustments for purchased
research and  development of $30.0 million and the sale of inventories  revalued
to fair value of $2.1 million during such period.

         Gross profit before non-recurring  acquisition costs as a percentage of
net sales  increased  to 44.1% for 1997,  compared  to 41.1% for pro forma 1996.
Gross profit in 1997 includes the previously  noted $2.1 million non-cash charge
associated  with  the  excess  of the fair  value  over  the  historic  value of
inventory  acquired in the  Safeline  acquisition.  The  improved  gross  profit
percentage  reflects  the  benefits of reduced  product  costs  arising from our
research and development  efforts,  ongoing  productivity  improvements  and the
depreciation of the Swiss franc against our other principal trading currencies.

         Research  and  development  expenses  as  a  percentage  of  net  sales
decreased to 5.4% for 1997,  compared to 5.7% for pro forma 1996;  however,  the
local currency spending level remained relatively constant period to period.

         Selling,  general and  administrative  expenses as a percentage  of net
sales  increased to 29.6% for 1997,  compared to 28.3% for pro forma 1996.  This
increase was primarily a result of establishing  additional direct marketing and
distribution in Asia.

         Adjusted  Operating  Income was $81.5 million,  or 9.3% of net sales in
1997  compared  to $67.9  million,  or 7.6% of net sales in pro forma  1996,  an
increase of 20.1% (28.4% excluding Safeline results from both pro forma 1996 and
actual 1997). The 1997 period excludes  non-recurring  costs of $2.1 million for
the  revaluation of  inventories  to fair value in connection  with the Safeline
acquisition and $2.5 million paid to terminate the management  contract with AEA
Investors.

         As previously noted, in connection with the Safeline acquisition, $30.0
million  of  the  purchase  price  was  attributed  to  purchased  research  and
development  in process.  Such amount was  expensed  immediately  following  the
Safeline  acquisition.  The  technological  feasibility  of the  products  being
developed had not been established as of the date of the Safeline acquisition.

         Interest expense was $35.9 million for 1997,  compared to $30.0 million
for pro forma 1996. The  difference is principally  due to the fact that the pro
forma 1996 information reflects a full year of the benefits of reduced borrowing
costs in  connection  with our IPO and  Refinancing  which  occurred in November
1997.

         Other  charges,  net of $10.8 million for 1997  includes  restructuring
related charges of approximately $6.3 million and other charges of approximately
$3.5 million relating to (i) certain financial derivative financial  instruments
acquired in 1996 and closed in 1997 and (ii) foreign  currency  exchange  losses




resulting  from certain  unhedged bank debt  denominated  in foreign  currencies
(such derivative financial instruments and such unhedged bank debt are no longer
held  pursuant  to current  Company  policy).  The  decrease  compared  to other
charges,  net of $14.0  million  for pro forma 1996 is  principally  a result of
lower  restructuring  related  charges in 1997  compared to pro forma 1996 ($6.3
million versus $12.6 million).

         The  significant  increase  in our  effective  tax  rate  in  1997  was
primarily  attributable  to  the  nondeductibility  of  goodwill  and  purchased
research  and  development  charges  incurred in  connection  with the  Safeline
acquisition.

         Net earnings  before  non-recurring  items were $19.1  million in 1997.
Such  non-recurring  items in 1997 include the previously  mentioned charges for
purchased  research and  development,  the  revaluation  of  inventories to fair
value,  the termination fee paid to AEA Investors,  the  restructuring  of North
American operations and losses relating to derivative financial  instruments and
unhedged bank debt denominated in foreign currencies. Including these charges of
$43.0 million  after taxes,  the net loss before  extraordinary  items was $23.9
million for 1997 compared to net earnings of $5.0 million for pro forma 1996.

         The extraordinary  loss of $41.2 million in 1997 represents charges for
the early repayment premium on our senior  subordinated  notes and the write-off
of capitalized debt issuance fees associated with our senior  subordinated notes
and previous credit facilities.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

         Prior to the acquisition of the  Mettler-Toledo  group from Ciba-Geigy,
our cash was used primarily for working capital requirements and to fund capital
expenditures,  service debt and pay dividends to  Ciba-Geigy.  Our liquidity was
affected  by  the   Acquisition   from  Ciba-Geigy  as  well  as  by  subsequent
acquisitions that we completed. The Acquisition was financed principally through
capital  contributions  of $190.0 million before  related  expenses,  borrowings
under a previous credit  agreement of $307.0 million and $135.0 million from the
issuance of our 9 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2006 (the "Notes").

         In May 1997,  additional  leverage was added through the acquisition of
Safeline. The purchase price for Safeline was (pound)63.7 million (approximately
$104.4  million  at May  30,  1997),  including  a  post-closing  adjustment  of
(pound)1.9  million which was paid in October 1997 and an earn-out of (pound)0.8
million which was paid in June 1998.

         We continue to explore potential  acquisitions.  In connection with any
acquisition, we may incur additional indebtedness.

         Our liquidity was improved as a result of our initial  public  offering
("IPO") in November  1997 and the  refinancing  undertaken  at that time. In the
refinancing,  we entered into a new credit  agreement and repurchased all of the
Notes using proceeds from the IPO and borrowings under the credit agreement.

         At December 31, 1998,  our  consolidated  debt, net of cash, was $365.5
million.  We had  borrowings of $351.3  million  under our credit  agreement and
$35.4 million under various other  arrangements  as of December 31, 1998. Of our
credit agreement  borrowings,  approximately $184.6 million was borrowed as term
loans  scheduled  to mature in 2004 and  $166.7  million  was  borrowed  under a
multi-currency  revolving credit  facility.  At December 31, 1998, we had $233.6
million of availability remaining under the revolving credit facility.






         At December 31, 1998,  approximately  $119.1  million of the borrowings
under the credit agreement and local working capital facilities were denominated
in U.S.  dollars.  The balance of the borrowings  under the credit agreement and
local  working  capital  facilities  were  denominated  in  certain of our other
principal  trading  currencies  amounting  to  approximately  $267.6  million at
December 31, 1998.  Changes in exchange rates between the currencies in which we
generate cash flow and the currencies in which our  borrowings  are  denominated
affect our liquidity. In addition, because we borrow in a variety of currencies,
our debt balances fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates.

         Under the credit  agreement,  amounts  outstanding under the term loans
amortize in quarterly installments.  In addition, the credit agreement obligates
us to make mandatory  prepayments in certain  circumstances with the proceeds of
asset sales or issuance of capital stock or indebtedness and with certain excess
cash flow.  The credit  agreement  imposes  certain  restrictions  on us and our
subsidiaries,  including  restrictions  and  limitations  on the  ability to pay
dividends to our  shareholders,  incur  indebtedness,  make  investments,  grant
liens,  sell financial  assets and engage in certain other  activities.  We must
also comply with certain financial covenants. The credit agreement is secured by
certain of our assets.

         Cash provided by operating activities continues to significantly exceed
our capital expenditure requirements.  Our cash provided by operating activities
increased  to $72.0  million in 1998 from $55.6  million in 1997.  The  increase
resulted  principally from improved Adjusted Operating Income and lower interest
costs resulting from our IPO and related refinancing and reduced debt levels.

         During 1998, we spent  approximately  $44.9 million on acquisitions and
other  investing  activities  including  seller  financing of $12.0  million and
assumed debt of $3.1 million as well as contingent and other payments associated
with  acquisitions  consummated in 1997.  These  purchases were funded from cash
generated from operations and additional borrowings.  We may be required to make
additional  earn-out payments  relating to certain of these  acquisitions in the
future.

         Capital  expenditures  are a  significant  use of  funds  and are  made
primarily for machinery, equipment and the purchase and expansion of facilities,
including the purchase of land for, and  construction  of, our  Shanghai,  China
manufacturing  facility.  Our capital  expenditures totaled $29.4 million in pro
forma  1996,  $22.3  million  in  1997  and  $28.6  million  in  1998.   Capital
expenditures for 1999 are expected to be similar to 1998 levels.

         We currently believe that cash flow from operating activities, together
with borrowings  available under the credit  agreement and local working capital
facilities,  will be sufficient to fund currently  anticipated  working  capital
needs and capital spending requirements as well as debt service requirements for
at least  several  years,  but there can be no  assurance  that this will be the
case.

Effect of Currency on Results of Operations

         Because we conduct  operations in many countries,  our operating income
can be significantly  affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Swiss
franc-denominated  expenses represent a much greater percentage of our operating
expenses than Swiss franc-denominated sales represent of our net sales. In part,
this is  because  most of our  manufacturing  costs  in  Switzerland  relate  to
products  that  are  sold  outside  of  Switzerland.   Moreover,  a  substantial
percentage   of  our   research  and   development   expenses  and  general  and




administrative  expenses are incurred in  Switzerland.  Therefore,  if the Swiss
franc strengthens against all or most of our major trading currencies (e.g., the
U.S. dollar,  the Euro,  other major European  currencies and the Japanese Yen),
our  operating  profit is  reduced.  We also have  significantly  more  sales in
European  currencies (other than the Swiss franc) than we have expenses in those
currencies.  Therefore,  when European currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar
and the Swiss franc, it also decreases our operating  profits.  In recent years,
the  Swiss  franc  and  other  European  currencies  have  generally  moved in a
consistent  manner versus the U.S.  dollar.  Therefore,  because the two effects
previously described have offset each other, our operating profits have not been
materially  affected  by  movements  in the U.S.  dollar  exchange  rate  versus
European  currencies.  However,  there can be no assurance that these currencies
will continue to move in a consistent  manner in the future.  In addition to the
effects of exchange  rate  movements on operating  profits,  our debt levels can
fluctuate due to changes in exchange rates, particularly between the U.S. dollar
and the Swiss franc.

Year 2000 Issue

         We have in place  detailed  programs  to  address  Year 2000  readiness
internally  and with  certain  suppliers.  The Year 2000  issue is the result of
computer  logic that was written using two digits rather than four to define the
applicable  year. Any computer logic that processes  date-sensitive  information
may recognize dates using "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000, which
could result in miscalculations or system or equipment failures.

         Pursuant to our readiness programs, all major categories of information
technology systems and non-information  technology systems (e.g., equipment with
embedded microprocessors) in use by the Company, including manufacturing, sales,
financial and human resources,  are being inventoried and assessed. In addition,
plans  have  been   developed  for  the  required   systems   modifications   or
replacements.  With  respect  to our  information  technology  systems,  we have
completed the entire  assessment  phase and most of the remediation  phase.  The
remediation  phase  has  been  completed  for  most  major  facilities  with the
exception of facilities in Spain, Sweden and certain U.S. and German facilities.
With respect to our  non-information  technology  systems, we have completed the
assessment phase and nearly all of the remediation  phase.  Selected areas, both
internal and external, will be tested to assure the integrity of our remediation
programs.  The testing is expected to be completed by September 1999. We plan to
have all internal  mission-critical  information  technology and non-information
technology systems Year 2000 compliant by September 1999.

         We have also reviewed our products,  including  products sold in recent
years, to determine if they are Year 2000 compliant. In our current product line
we believe  that most of our  products  are Year 2000  compliant.  For  products
currently in use, we are reviewing the risks by product item with many customers
and in many  instances  have  suggested  that the  customer  replace  the  older
product.

         We are also  communicating  with our  major  suppliers  to  assess  the
potential  impact on our  operations  if those  parties fail to become Year 2000
compliant in a timely  manner.  While this process is not yet  completed,  based
upon  responses  to date,  it  appears  that many of those  suppliers  have only
indicated  that  they  have in  place  Year  2000  readiness  programs,  without
specifically  confirming  that  they  will be Year  2000  compliant  in a timely
manner.  Risk  assessment,  readiness  evaluation,  action plans and contingency
plans  related to our  significant  suppliers  are  expected to be  completed by
September 1999.




         The costs incurred to date related to our Year 2000 activities have not
been  material  and,  based upon current  estimates,  we do not believe that the
total cost of our Year 2000  readiness  programs  will have a  material  adverse
impact on our results of operations or financial condition.  The total costs are
not easy to  quantify  since many of the steps we are  taking  relate to ongoing
systems updating, a small component of which relates to Year 2000 compliance. In
certain  instances we have accelerated such updates.  As a result of our ongoing
systems updating, we do not expect to realize a significant reduction in related
expenditures once the work on Year 2000 compliance is completed.

         Our readiness  programs  also include the  development  of  contingency
plans  to  protect  our  business   and   operations   from  Year   2000-related
interruptions.  These plans should be completed by September 1999 and, by way of
example, will include back-up procedures, identification of alternate suppliers,
where possible, and increases in safety inventory levels. Based upon our current
assessment  of our  non-information  technology  systems,  we do not  believe it
necessary to develop an extensive contingency plan for those systems.  There can
be no assurances,  however, that any of our contingency plans will be sufficient
to handle all problems or issues which may arise.

         We believe that we are taking  reasonable steps to identify and address
those  matters  that could  cause  serious  interruptions  in our  business  and
operations due to Year 2000 issues. However, delays in the implementation of new
systems,  a failure to fully identify all Year 2000  dependencies in our systems
and in the  systems  of our  suppliers,  a  failure  of such  third  parties  to
adequately  address  their  respective  Year  2000  issues,  or a  failure  of a
contingency plan could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations. For example, we would experience a material
adverse  impact on our  business if  significant  suppliers of  components  were
unable to deliver on a timely basis,  if major utilities  failed,  such as those
providing  water,  electricity  and  telephone  services,  causing  us  to  lose
production  capabilities or limit other operations,  if a significant portion of
our billing system was not functioning, causing a working capital deficit, or if
costs increased from warranty claims or customer claims of product liability.

         The statements set forth herein  concerning  Year 2000 issues which are
not  historical  facts are  forward-looking  statements  that involve  risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in
the  forward-looking  statements.  In particular,  the costs associated with our
Year 2000  programs and the  time-frame  in which we plan to complete  Year 2000
modifications are based upon  management's best estimates.  These estimates were
derived from  internal  assessments  and  assumptions  of future  events.  These
estimates may be adversely  affected by the continued  availability of personnel
and  system  resources,  and by the  failure  of  significant  third  parties to
properly address Year 2000 issues. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that any
estimates,  or other  forward-looking  statements  will be achieved,  and actual
results could differ significantly from those contemplated.

European Monetary Union

         Within  Europe,  the European  Economic and Monetary  Union (the "EMU")
introduced a new currency,  the Euro, on January 1, 1999. The new currency is in
response to the EMU's policy of economic  convergence to harmonize trade policy,
eliminate  business costs  associated with currency  exchange and to promote the
free flow of capital, goods and services. Switzerland is not part of the EMU.




         On January 1, 1999,  the  participating  countries  adopted the Euro as
their local  currency,  initially  available  for  currency  trading on currency
exchanges and noncash (banking) transactions.  The existing local currencies, or
legacy currencies,  will remain legal tender through January 1, 2002.  Beginning
on  January 1,  2002,  Euro-denominated  bills and coins will be issued for cash
transactions.  For a period of six months from this date, both legacy currencies
and the Euro will be legal tender.  On or before July 1, 2002, the participating
countries will withdraw all legacy currency and use exclusively the Euro.

         We have recognized the introduction of the Euro as a significant  event
with potential  implications for existing operations.  Currently,  we operate in
all of the  participating  countries  in the  EMU.  We  expect  nonparticipating
European Union countries,  such as Great Britain, where we also have operations,
to eventually join the EMU.

         We have  committed  resources to conduct risk  assessments  and to take
corrective  actions,   where  required,  to  ensure  we  are  prepared  for  the
introduction of the Euro. We have undertaken a review of the Euro implementation
and have  concentrated on areas such as operations,  finance,  treasury,  legal,
information  management,  procurement  and  others,  both in  participating  and
nonparticipating  European  Union  countries  where we operate.  Also,  existing
legacy  accounting  and  business  systems and other  business  assets have been
reviewed for Euro compliance,  including assessing any risks from third parties.
Progress regarding Euro implementation is reported periodically to management.

         Because of the staggered introduction of the Euro regarding noncash and
cash  transactions,  we have  developed our plans to address our  accounting and
business  systems  first and our business  assets  second.  We expect to be Euro
compliant  within our  accounting  and  business  systems by the end of 1999 and
compliant within our other business assets prior to the introduction of the Euro
bills and coins. Compliance in participating and nonparticipating countries will
be achieved primarily through upgraded systems, which were previously planned to
be upgraded. Remaining systems will be modified to achieve compliance. We do not
currently  expect to experience any  significant  operational  disruptions or to
incur any significant costs, including any currency risk, which could materially
affect our liquidity or capital  resources.  We are  preparing  plans to address
issues within the  transitional  period when both legacy and Euro currencies may
be used.

         We are  reviewing  our pricing  strategy  throughout  Europe due to the
increased  price  transparency  created by the Euro and are attempting to adjust
prices in some of our markets.  We are also  encouraging our suppliers,  even in
Switzerland,  to commence transacting in Euro. We do not believe that the effect
of these adjustments will be material.

         We have a disproportionate amount of our costs in Swiss francs relative
to sales.  Historically,  the potential  currency  impact has been muted because
currency   fluctuations  between  the  Swiss  franc  and  other  major  European
currencies have been minimal and there is greater balance between total European
(including  Swiss) sales and costs.  However,  if the  introduction  of the Euro
results in a  significant  weakening of the Euro  against the Swiss  franc,  our
financial performance could be harmed.

         The statements set forth herein concerning the introduction of the Euro
which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements that involve risks
and  uncertainties  that could cause actual  results to differ  materially  from
those in the  forward-looking  statements.  In particular,  the costs associated
with our Euro  programs  and the  time-frame  in which we plan to complete  Euro
modifications are based upon  management's best estimates.  These estimates were




derived from internal assessments and assumptions of future events. There can be
no guarantee  that any  estimates or other  forward-looking  statements  will be
achieved, and actual results could differ significantly from those contemplated.

Taxes

         We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions  throughout the world.
Our  effective  tax rate  and tax  liability  will be  affected  by a number  of
factors, such as the amount of taxable income in particular  jurisdictions,  the
tax rates in such jurisdictions,  tax treaties between jurisdictions, the extent
to which we transfer  funds between  jurisdictions  and repatriate  income,  and
changes in law. Generally, the tax liability for each legal entity is determined
either   (i)   on   a    non-consolidated/combined    basis   or   (ii)   on   a
consolidated/combined  basis only with other eligible entities subject to tax in
the same  jurisdiction,  in either case without  regard to the taxable losses of
non-consolidated/combined  affiliated  entities.  As a result, we may pay income
taxes to certain  jurisdictions  even though on an overall  basis we incur a net
loss for the period.

Environmental Matters

         We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including
those  relating  to air  emissions,  wastewater  discharges,  the  handling  and
disposal of solid and  hazardous  wastes and the  remediation  of  contamination
associated with the use and disposal of hazardous substances.

         We  incur  capital  and  operating   expenditures   in  complying  with
environmental  laws and regulations both in the United States and abroad. We are
currently  involved  in,  or have  potential  liability  with  respect  to,  the
remediation of past  contamination  in facilities  both in the United States and
abroad. In addition,  some of these facilities have or had been in operation for
many decades and may have used  substances  or generated  and disposed of wastes
that are hazardous or may be considered  hazardous in the future. Such sites and
disposal  sites  owned by  others to which we sent  waste  may in the  future be
identified as contaminated and require remediation.  Accordingly, it is possible
that we could become  subject to  additional  environmental  liabilities  in the
future that may harm our results of operations or financial condition.  However,
we do not anticipate any material adverse effect on our results of operations or
financial condition as a result of future costs of environmental compliance.

Inflation

         Inflation  can affect the costs of goods and services  that we use. The
competitive  environment  in which we operate  limits  somewhat  our  ability to
recover higher costs through  increased selling prices.  Moreover,  there may be
differences  in inflation  rates  between  countries in which we incur the major
portion of our costs and other  countries in which we sell  products,  which may
limit our ability to recover  increased costs. We remain committed to operations
in China, Latin America and Eastern Europe, which have experienced  inflationary
conditions.  To date,  inflationary conditions have not had a material effect on
our  operating  results.  However,  if our presence in China,  Latin America and
Eastern Europe  increases,  these  inflationary  conditions could have a greater
impact on our operating results.

Seasonality

         Our business has  historically  experienced a slight amount of seasonal
variation, with sales in the first quarter slightly lower than, and sales in the
fourth quarter  slightly  higher than,  sales in the second and third  quarters.




This trend has a somewhat  greater effect on income from  operations than on net
sales because fixed costs are spread evenly across all quarters.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

         We have only limited involvement with derivative financial  instruments
and do not use them for trading purposes.

         We have  entered  into  foreign  currency  forward  contracts  to hedge
short-term  intercompany  balances with our foreign  businesses.  Such contracts
limit our exposure to both favorable and unfavorable  currency  fluctuations.  A
sensitivity  analysis to changes in the U.S.  dollar on these  foreign  currency
denominated  contracts indicates that if the U.S. dollar weakened by 10% against
all of our  currency  exposures,  the  fair  value of  these  instruments  would
decrease by $2.6 million. Any resulting changes in fair value would be offset by
changes  in the  underlying  hedged  balance  sheet  position.  The  sensitivity
analysis  assumes a  parallel  shift in foreign  currency  exchange  rates.  The
assumption  that  exchange  rates change in parallel  fashion may  overstate the
impact of changing  exchange  rates on assets and  liabilities  denominated in a
foreign  currency.  We also have other currency risks as described under "Effect
of Currency on Results of Operations."

         We have entered into certain  interest rate swap and cap  agreements in
order to limit our exposure to increases in interest rates.  These contracts are
more fully described in Note 5 to our audited consolidated financial statements.
Based on our  agreements  outstanding  at December  31,  1998, a 100 basis point
increase in  interest  rates  would  result in an increase in the net  aggregate
market value of these instruments of $8.2 million. Conversely, a 100 basis point
decrease in interest  rates would result in a $8.8 million net  reduction in the
net aggregate market value of these instruments.  Any change in fair value would
not effect our Consolidated  Statement of Operations  unless such agreements and
the variable rate debt they hedge were prematurely settled.

         We have  designated  certain of our Swiss  franc debt as a hedge of our
net  investments.  A sensitivity  analysis to changes in the U.S. dollar on such
debt at December  31, 1998  indicates  that if the U.S.  dollar  weakened by 10%
against  the Swiss  franc,  the fair value of such debt would  increase by $26.2
million.  Any changes in fair value of the debt are  recorded  in  comprehensive
income and offset the impact on comprehensive income of foreign exchange changes
on the net investments which they hedge.

New Accounting Standards

         In March 1998, the American  Institute of Certified Public  Accountants
issued  Statement  of  Position  98-1,  "Accounting  for the  Costs of  Computer
Software  Developed  or Obtained  for  Internal  Use." This  statement  provides
guidance on accounting for the costs of computer software  developed or obtained
for  internal  use.  This  statement  requires  entities to  capitalize  certain
internal-use  software costs once certain criteria are met, and is effective for
financial  statements  for fiscal  years  beginning  after  December  15,  1998.
Management  estimates  the adoption of this  statement  will not have an adverse
effect on our consolidated financial statements.

         In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of  Financial   Accounting   Standards  No.  133,   "Accounting  for  Derivative




Instruments and Hedging Activities." This statement  establishes  accounting and
reporting  standards for derivative  instruments,  including certain  derivative
instruments   embedded  in  other   contracts   (collectively   referred  to  as
derivatives),  and for hedging activities.  It requires that an entity recognize
all  derivatives  as either assets or  liabilities in the statement of financial
position  and  measure  those  instruments  at fair  value.  This  statement  is
effective for all fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999.
Management has not determined the effect of the adoption of this statement.

Recent SEC Announcements

         In September  1998,  the SEC raised  the  concern  that U.S.  reporting
companies were classifying an ever-growing  portion of the acquisition price for
acquisitions as purchased  in-process  research and  development.  We recorded a
charge for purchased  in-process  research and development in 1998 based upon an
independent  valuation  relating to the acquisition of Bohdan Automation Inc. We
believe that this charge was calculated in accordance  with U.S. GAAP and recent
SEC  guidance.  However,  if the SEC were to  adopt a  different  standard  on a
retroactive  basis than that applied by the Company or object to our application
of the recent SEC  guidance,  we could be  required  to  restate  our  earnings.
Moreover, any adjustment could result in earnings in the future being reduced by
additional  goodwill  amortization.  We recorded similar charges in our 1996 and
1997 consolidated  financial  statements relating to prior  acquisitions.  These
consolidated financial statements were audited by our independent accountants.

Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks

         This annual report  includes  forward-looking  statements  based on our
current expectations and projections about future events,  including:  strategic
plans;  potential  growth,   including  penetration  of  developed  markets  and
opportunities  in  emerging  markets;  planned  product  introductions;  planned
operational changes and research and development efforts; Year 2000 issues; Euro
conversion  issues;  future financial  performance,  including  expected capital
expenditures; research and development expenditures; estimated proceeds from and
the timing of asset  sales;  potential  acquisitions;  future  cash  sources and
requirements;  and potential cost savings from planned  employee  reductions and
restructuring programs.

         These  forward-looking  statements are subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties,  including those identified in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report
on Form 10-K,  which could cause our actual  results to differ  materially  from
historical  results  or those  anticipated  and  certain of which are beyond our
control.  The words "believe,"  "expect,"  "anticipate" and similar  expressions
identify  forward-looking  statements.  We undertake no  obligation  to publicly
update or revise  any  forward-looking  statements,  whether  as a result of new
information,  future events or otherwise.  New risk factors  emerge from time to
time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors,  nor can we
assess the  impact of all such risk  factors  on our  business  or the extent to
which any factor, or combination of factors,  may cause actual results to differ
materially from those contained in any forward-looking  statements.  Given these
risks  and   uncertainties,   investors  should  not  place  undue  reliance  on
forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.





ITEM 7a.      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

         Discussion  of this item is on page 41 of  Management's  Discussion  
and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results of Operations.

ITEM 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

         The financial  statements required by this item are set forth on pages
F-1 through F-30 and the related financial schedule is set forth on page S-2.

ITEM 9.       CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
              FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         On March  10,  1999,  the  Company  dismissed  KPMG  Fides  Peat as its
independent auditors.  The reports of KPMG Fides Peat on the Company's financial
statements  for the fiscal  years ended  December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997
did  not  contain  an  adverse  opinion  or  a  disclaimer  of  opinion,   or  a
qualification  or  modification  as to  uncertainty,  audit scope, or accounting
principles.  In  connection  with its audits for the  Company's  two most recent
fiscal years, and through  March 10, 1999, there were no disagreements with KPMG
Fides  Peat on any  matter of  accounting  principles  or  practices,  financial
statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure, which disagreement(s),  if
not  resolved to the  satisfaction  of KPMG Fides Peat,  would have caused it to
make a reference to the subject matter of the disagreement(s) in connection with
its reports covering such periods.  None of the reportable events listed in Item
304(a)(1)(v)  of  Regulation  S-K occurred  with respect to the Company and KPMG
Fides Peat.

         On March 10, 1999, the Company engaged  PricewaterhouseCoopers  ("PWC")
as its independent auditors for the fiscal year ending December 31, 1999. During
the  Company's two most recent  fiscal  years,  and through March 10, 1999,  the
Company  did not consult  with PWC as to either the  application  of  accounting
principles to a specified transaction, either completed or proposed, or the type
of audit  opinion that might be rendered on the Company's  financial  statements
and the Company  did not  consult  with PWC as to any matter that was either the
subject of a disagreement or reportable event.

         The  decision to dismiss KPMG Fides Peat as the  Company's  independent
auditors  was  approved  by  the Audit  Committee  of the Company's Board  of
Directors.





                                   PART III

ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The  directors  and  executive  officers  of the  Company are set forth
below.  All  directors  hold  office  until the annual  meeting of  shareholders
following  their  election  or  until  their  successors  are duly  elected  and
qualified.  Officers are  appointed  by the Board of Directors  and serve at the
discretion of the Board.

Name                       Age    Position

Robert F. Spoerry          43    President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
                                 of the Board of Directors
William P. Donnelly        37    Chief Financial Officer
Karl M. Lang               52    Head, Laboratory Division
Lukas Braunschweiler       42    Head, Industrial and Retail (Europe)
John D. Robechek           50    Head, Industrial and Retail (Americas)
Peter Burker               53    Head, Human Resources
Thomas Rubbe               44    Head, Logistics and Information Systems
Philip Caldwell            79    Director
Reginald H. Jones          81    Director
John D. Macomber           71    Director
Laurence Z. Y. Moh         73    Director
Thomas P. Salice           39    Director

         Robert F. Spoerry has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the
Company since 1993.  He served as Head,  Industrial  and Retail  (Europe) of the
Company  from 1987 to 1993.  Mr.  Spoerry has been a Director  since  1996.  Mr.
Spoerry has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since May 1998.

         William P.  Donnelly  has been Chief  Financial  Officer of the Company
since  1997.  From 1993  until  joining  the  Company,  he held  various  senior
financial and management positions, including most recently Group Vice President
and Chief  Financial  Officer,  with Elsag Bailey Process  Automation,  a global
manufacturer  of  instrumentation  and  analytical  products,  and  developer of
distributed control systems.

         Karl M. Lang has been Head,  Laboratory  Division of the Company  since
1994.  From  1991 to 1994 he was  based in Japan as a  representative  of senior
management with responsibility for expansion of the Asian operations.

         Lukas  Braunschweiler has been Head,  Industrial and Retail (Europe) of
the Company since 1995.  From 1992 until 1995 he held various senior  management
positions  with the Landis & Gyr Group,  a  manufacturer  of electrical  meters.
Prior to 1992, he was a Vice President in the Technology  Group of Saurer Group,
a manufacturer of textile machinery.

         John D. Robechek has been Head, Industrial and Retail (Americas) of the
Company and President of  Mettler-Toledo,  Inc., a U.S.-based  subsidiary of the
Company,  since 1995.  From 1990 through 1994 he served as Senior Vice President
and managed all of the Company's U.S. subsidiaries.





         Peter Burker has been Head,  Human Resources of the Company since 1994.
From 1992 to 1994 he was  Mettler-Toledo's  General  Manager in Spain,  and from
1989 to 1991 he headed the Company's operations in Italy.

         Thomas Rubbe has been Head, Logistics and Information Systems of the 
Company since 1995.  From 1990 to 1995 he was head of Controlling, Finance and
Administration with the Company's German marketing organization.

         Philip Caldwell has been a Director since 1996.  Prior to May 1998, Mr.
Caldwell  served as Chairman of the Board of Directors.  Mr.  Caldwell  spent 32
years at Ford  Motor  Company,  where he  served  as  Chairman  of the  Board of
Directors and Chief Executive Officer from 1980 to 1985 and a Director from 1973
to 1990. He served as a Director and Senior Managing Director of Lehman Brothers
Inc. and its predecessor,  Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc., from 1985 to
February 1998. Mr. Caldwell is also a Director of American Guarantee & Liability
Insurance Company, The Mexico Fund, Russell Reynolds  Associates, Inc.,  Waters
Corporation  and Zurich  Holding  Company of  America,  Inc.  He has served as a
Director of CasTech  Aluminum Group Inc., the Chase  Manhattan  Bank,  N.A., the
Chase Manhattan Corporation, Digital Equipment Corporation, Federated Department
Stores Inc.,  the Kellogg  Company,  Shearson  Lehman  Brothers  Holdings  Inc.,
Specialty  Coatings  International  Inc. and Zurich Reinsurance Centre Holdings,
Inc.

         Reginald H. Jones has been a Director  since 1996. Mr. Jones retired as
Chairman  of the  Board of  Directors  of  General  Electric  Company  ("General
Electric")  in April  1981.  At General  Electric,  he served as Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief Executive  Officer from December 1972 through April
1981,  President from June 1972 to December 1972 and a Director from August 1971
to April 1981.

         John  D.  Macomber  has  been a  Director  since  1996.  He has  been a
principal of JDM  Investment  Group since 1992. He was Chairman and President of
the Export-Import  Bank of the United States (an agency of the U.S.  Government)
from  1989 to 1992.  From  1973 to 1986 Mr.  Macomber  was  Chairman  and  Chief
Executive  Officer of Celanese  Corporation.  Prior to that, Mr.  Macomber was a
Senior Partner of McKinsey & Company. Mr. Macomber is also a Director of Textron
Inc., Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Xerox Corporation,  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., Pilkington plc and Brown Group, Inc.

         Laurence Z. Y. Moh has been a Director  since 1996.  At present,  he is
Chairman and CEO of Plantation Timber Products Limited (CHINA), which he founded
in 1996.  He is  Chairman  Emeritus of  Universal  Furniture  Limited,  which he
founded in 1959.

         Thomas  P.  Salice  has been a  Director  since  1996.  Mr.  Salice  is
President of AEA Investors and has been associated with AEA Investors since June
1989. Mr. Salice is also a Director of Waters Corporation.





Item 11.      Executive Compensation

         The  information   appearing  in  the  sections  captioned  "Directors'
Compensation,"  "Executive  Compensation" and "Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider  Participation"  in the  Registrant's  Proxy  Statement for the 1999
Annual Meeting of Stockholders  (the "1999 Proxy  Statement") is incorporated by
reference herein.

Item 12.      Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management

         The information appearing in the section "Principal Shareholders" in 
the 1999 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.

ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         The   information   appearing   in  the  section   captioned   "Certain
Transactions" in the 1999 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein.






                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a)      Documents Filed as Part of this Report:

             1. Financial Statements. See Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements included on page F-1.


             2. Financial Statement Schedule and related Audit Report. See 
Schedule I, which is included on pages S-1 and S-2.


             3. List of  Exhibits. See Index of Exhibits  included on page E-1.

    (b)         Reports on Form 8-K:

                None.






                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant  to the  requirements  of Section  13 or Section  15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                              Mettler-Toledo International Inc.
                                                      (Registrant)

Date: March 18, 1999                          By:  /s/ ROBERT F. SPOERRY
                                                  ---------------------
                                                  Robert F. Spoerry
                                                  President and 
                                                  Chief Executive Officer


         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended,  this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following
persons  on  behalf of the  registrant  and in the  capacities  and on the dates
indicated.


      Signature                        Title                       Date

                                 Chairman of the Board,
                                      President and
/s/ ROBERT F. SPOERRY           Chief Executive Officer         March 18, 1999
- ------------------------
    Robert F. Spoerry
                                   Vice President and
                                 Chief Financial Officer
                           (Principal financial and accounting
/s/ WILLIAM P. DONNELLY                 officer)                March 18, 1999
- ------------------------
    William P. Donnelly

/s/ PHILIP CALDWELL                   Director                  March 18, 1999
- ------------------------
    Philip Caldwell

/s/ REGINALD H. JONES                 Director                  March 18, 1999
- ------------------------
    Reginald H. Jones

/s/ JOHN D. MACOMBER                  Director                  March 18, 1999
- ------------------------
    John D. Macomber

/s/ LAURENCE Z.Y. MOH                 Director                  March 18, 1999
- ------------------------
    Laurence Z.Y. Moh

/s/ THOMAS P. SALICE                  Director                  March 18, 1999
- ------------------------
    Thomas P. Salice







                                                   PAGE NUMBER OR
EXHIBIT NO.       DESCRIPTION                INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
- -----------       -----------                --------------------------

     2.1    Stock Purchase Agreement      Filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the
            between AEA-MT Inc., AG       Registration Statement, as amended,
            fur Prazisionsinstrumente     on Form S-1, of the Company
            and Ciba-Geigy AG, as         (Reg. No. 33-09621) and
            amended                       incorporated herein by
                                          reference
   
     2.2    Share Sale and Purchase       Filed as Exhibit 2 to the
            Agreement relating to the     Current Report on Form 8-K
            acquisition of the entire     of Mettler-Toledo Holding
            issued share capital          Inc. dated June 3, 1997
            of Safeline Limited           and incorporated herein by reference


     3.1    Amended and Restated          Filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the Annual 
            Certificate of                Report on Form10-K of the Company 
            Incorporation of the          dated March 13, 1998 and incorporated
            Company                       herein by reference

     3.2*   Amended By-laws of the        Page 85
            Company effective
            April 23, 1999

     4.1    Specimen Form of the          Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the
            Company's Stock Certificate   Statement, as amended, on
                                          Form S-1 of the Company
                                          (Reg. No. 333-35597) and
                                          incorporated herein by
                                          reference

     10.1   Employment Agreement between  Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the
            Robert F. Spoerry and         Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Mettler-Toledo AG, dated      Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc.
            as of October 30, 1996        dated March 31, 1997 and
                                          incorporated herein by reference

     10.2   Employment Agreement between  Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
            Lukas Braunschweiler and      Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Mettler-Toledo GmbH dated as  the Company dated March 13,1998
            of November 10, 1997          and incorporated herein by reference

     10.3   Employment Agreement between  Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the
            William P. Donnelly and       Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Mettler-Toledo GmbH dated as  the Company dated March 13, 1998
            of November 10, 1997          and incorporated herein by reference

     10.4   Employment Agreement between  Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the
            Karl M. Lang and Mettler-     Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Toledo GmbH dated as of       the Company dated March 13, 1998
            November 10, 1997             and incorporated herein by reference

     10.5   Employment Agreement between  Filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the
            John D. Robachek and Mettler- Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            Toledo, Inc. dated as of      the Company dated March 13, 1998
            November 10, 1997             and incorporated herein by reference 
 
     10.6   Loan Agreement between        Filed  as  Exhibit  10.5 to the
            Robert F. Spoerry and         Annual  Report  on Form 10-K of
            Mettler-Toledo AG, dated      Mettler-Toledo   Holding   Inc.
            as of October 7, 1996         dated March 31, 1997 and
                                          incorporated  herein by
                                          reference

     10.7*  Regulations of the            Page 97
            Performance Oriented 
            Bonus System (POBS) -
            Incentive System for the                                
            Management of Mettler Toledo,
            effective as of November 5,

     10.8*  Regulations of the POBS Plus- Page 102
            Incentive Scheme for Senior
            Management of Mettler Toledo,
            effective as of November 5, 

                                        E-1


                                                   PAGE NUMBER OR
EXHIBIT NO.       DESCRIPTION                INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
- -----------       -----------                --------------------------

     10.9   Credit Agreement, dated       Filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the    
            as of November 19,            Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            1997, between Mettler-        the Company dated March 13, 1998
            Toledo International Inc.,    and incorporated herein by reference
            as Guarantor, Mettler-
            Toledo, Inc., Mettler-Toledo
            AG, as Borrowers, Safeline
            Holding Company as UK
            Borrower, Mettler-Toledo,
            Inc., as Canadian Borrower
            and Merrill Lynch & Co. as
            Arranger and Documentation
            Agent, and the Lenders
            thereto

     10.10  Amendment No.1, dated as      Filed as Exhibit 10 to the Quarterly
            of September 30, 1998, to     Report on Form 10-Q of the Company,
            the Second Amended and        dated November 16, 1998 and
            Restated Credit Agreement,    incorporated herein by reference     
            dated as of November 19,

     10.11  Agreement of Merger, dated    Filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the  
            November 13, 1997, between    Annual Report on Form 10-K of
            MT Investors Inc. and         the Company dated March 13, 1998
            Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc.   and incorporated herein by reference


     10.12  1997 Amended and Restated     Filed as  Exhibit  10.10 to the
            Stock Option Plan             Registration  Statement on Form
                                          S-1 of the  Company  (Reg.  No.
                                          333-35597)   and   incorporated
                                          herein by reference
 
     10.13  Form of Participants'         Filed as  Exhibit  10.11 to the
            Subscription Agreement        Registration    Statement,   as
                                          amended,  on  Form  S-1  of the
                                          Company  (Reg.  No.  333-35597)
                                          and   incorporated   herein  by
                                          reference

     10.14  Form of GMC Subscription      Filed as  Exhibit  10.12 to the
            Agreement                     Registration    Statement,   as
                                          amended, on  Form  S-1  of  the
                                          Company  (Reg.  No.  333-35597)
                                          and   incorporated   herein  by 
                                          reference

     11*    Statements regarding          Page 106
            computation of per share
            earnings

     21*    Subsidiaries of the           Page 107
            Company                       
  
     27.1*  Financial Data Schedule       Page 110

     99.1*  Factors Affecting Future      Page 111
            Operating Results

- ----------------
* Filed herewith

                                        E-2


   
                        METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


   Independent Auditors' Report..........................................   F-2

   Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1997 and 1998..........   F-3

   Consolidated  Statements  of  Operations  for the  period 
      January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996, for the period October 15,
      1996 to December 31, 1996 and for the years ended December 31,
      1997 and 1998......................................................   F-4

   Consolidated  Statements of Changes in Net Assets / Shareholders'
      Equity for the period  January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996,  for
      the period  October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996 and for the
      years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998.............................   F-5

   Consolidated  Statements  of Cash  Flows for the  period  
      January  1, 1996 to October 14, 1996, for the period October 15,
      1996 to December 31, 1996 and for the years ended December 31,
      1997 and 1998......................................................   F-6

   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements............................   F-7


                                        F-1



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Mettler-Toledo International Inc.


We have audited the accompanying  consolidated  balance sheets of Mettler-Toledo
International  Inc. and  subsidiaries  (as defined in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial  statements)  as of  December  31,  1997  and  1998,  and the  related
consolidated  statements of operations,  net assets /  shareholders'  equity and
cash flows for the period January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996,  the  Predecessor
period,  for the period October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996, and for the years
ended  December 31, 1997 and 1998,  the Successor  periods.  These  consolidated
financial  statements are the  responsibility of the Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion  on  these  consolidated  financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
in the  United  States of  America.  Those  standards  require  that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a
test basis,  evidence  supporting  the amounts and  disclosures in the financial
statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant  estimates  made by  management,  as well as evaluating  the overall
financial  statement  presentation.   We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated  financial statements referred to above present
fairly,  in all  material  respects,  the  consolidated  financial  position  of
Mettler-Toledo  International  Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and
1998, and the consolidated  results of their operations and their cash flows for
the period January 1, 1996 to October 14, 1996, the Predecessor  period, for the
period  October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996,  and for the years ended December
31, 1997 and 1998, the Successor periods,  in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles in the United States of America.

As more fully  described  in Note 1 to the  consolidated  financial  statements,
Mettler-Toledo  International  Inc.  acquired  the  Mettler-Toledo  Group  as of
October 15, 1996, in a business  combination  accounted for as a purchase.  As a
result  of the  acquisition,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  for  the
Successor  periods are presented on a different basis of accounting than that of
the Predecessor periods, and therefore are not directly comparable.


KPMG Fides Peat


Zurich, Switzerland
February 5, 1999

                                       F-2





                                       F-3



                                        F-4




                                        F-5




                                        F-6




                         METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

1.            BUSINESS DESCRIPTION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

         Mettler-Toledo  International Inc.  ("Mettler-Toledo," the "Company" or
"Successor")  is a global  manufacturer  and marketer of precision  instruments,
including weighing and certain analytical and measurement technologies,  for use
in  laboratory,  industrial  and  food  retailing  applications.  The  Company's
manufacturing facilities are located in Switzerland, the United States, Germany,
the United  Kingdom and China.  The Company's  principal  executive  offices are
located in Greifensee, Switzerland.

         The consolidated  financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with generally  accepted  accounting  principles in the United States of America
("U.S.  GAAP") and  include  all  entities  in which the  Company  has  control,
including  its majority  owned  subsidiaries.  Financial  results  following the
acquisition of Mettler-Toledo  from Ciba-Geigy on October 15, 1996, the Safeline
acquisition on May 30, 1997 and the initial public offering in November 1997 are
not comparable in many respects to the financial  results prior to those events.
These events are further  described in Notes 3, 9 and 10. Certain amounts in the
prior period financial statements have been reclassified to conform with current
year presentation.

         All  intercompany  transactions  and  balances  have  been  eliminated.
Investments  in which the  Company  has  voting  rights  between  20% to 50% are
generally accounted for using the equity method of accounting.

         The  combined  financial  statements  of the  Predecessor  (see Note 3)
include the combined  historical  assets and liabilities and combined results of
operations of the  Mettler-Toledo  Group. All intergroup  transactions have been
eliminated as part of the combination process.

         The  preparation of financial  statements  requires  management to make
estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and
liabilities,  as well as disclosure of contingent  assets and liabilities at the
date of the  financial  statements,  and the  reported  amounts of revenues  and
expenses  during the  reporting  periods.  Actual  results may differ from those
estimates.

2.            SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

         Cash and Cash Equivalents

         Cash  and cash  equivalents  include  highly  liquid  investments  with
original maturity dates of three months or less.

         Inventories

         Inventories  are  valued at the lower of cost or  market.  Cost,  which
includes  direct  materials,  labor and  overhead  plus  indirect  overhead,  is
determined using the first in, first out (FIFO) or weighted average cost methods
and to a lesser extent the last in, first out (LIFO) method.

                                        F-7


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


2.            SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)


         Property, Plant and Equipment

         Property,  plant and  equipment  are  stated  at cost less  accumulated
depreciation.  Depreciation  is  charged  on  a  straight-line  basis  over  the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:

          Buildings and improvements       15 to 50 years
          Machinery and equipment          3 to 12 years
          Computer software                3 to 5 years
          Leasehold improvements           Shorter of useful life or lease term

         Excess of Cost over Net Assets Acquired

         The excess of purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired
is amortized on a straight-line  basis over the expected period to be benefited.
The Company assesses the  recoverability of such amounts by determining  whether
the  amortization  of the balance over its remaining  life can be recovered from
the undiscounted future operating cash flows of the acquired operations.

         Taxation

         The  Company  files  tax  returns  in each  jurisdiction  in  which  it
operates. Prior to the Acquisition discussed in Note 3, in certain jurisdictions
the Company filed its tax returns  jointly with other  Ciba-Geigy  subsidiaries.
The Company had a tax sharing  arrangement with Ciba-Geigy in these countries to
share the tax burden or benefits.  Such  arrangement  resulted in each company's
tax burden or benefit  equating to that which it would have incurred or received
if it had been filing a separate tax return.

         Deferred tax assets and  liabilities  are recognized for the future tax
consequences   attributable  to  differences  between  the  financial  statement
carrying  amounts of existing assets and  liabilities  and their  respective tax
bases and operating loss and tax credit  carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in the respective jurisdictions
in which the Company  operates  that are expected to apply to taxable  income in
the years in which those  temporary  differences are expected to be recovered or
settled.  In assessing  the  realizability  of deferred  tax assets,  management
considers  whether it is more  likely  than not that some  portion or all of the
deferred tax assets will not be realized.

         Generally,  deferred taxes are not provided on the unremitted  earnings
of subsidiaries  outside of the U.S.  because it is expected that these earnings
are  permanently  reinvested and such  determination  is not  practicable.  Such
earnings may become taxable upon the sale or  liquidation of these  subsidiaries
or upon the  remittance of dividends.  Deferred taxes are provided in situations
where the Company's subsidiaries plan to make future dividend distributions.

                                        F-8


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


2.            SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)


         Currency Translation and Transactions

         The reporting currency for the consolidated financial statements of the
Company is the U.S. dollar. The functional currency for the Company's operations
is  generally  the  applicable  local  currency.  Accordingly,  the  assets  and
liabilities of companies whose functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar
are included in the consolidated  financial statements by translating the assets
and liabilities into the reporting  currency at the exchange rates applicable at
the end of the reporting period.  The statements of operations and cash flows of
such  non-U.S.  dollar  functional  currency  operations  are  translated at the
monthly average exchange rates during the year.  Translation gains or losses are
accumulated in other comprehensive  income/(loss) in the Consolidated Statements
of Changes in Net Assets/Shareholders' Equity.

         Revenue Recognition

         Revenue  is  recognized  when  title to a product  has  transferred  or
services have been rendered. Revenues from service contracts are recognized over
the contract period.

         Research and Development

         Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

         Derivative Financial Instruments

         The Company has only  limited  involvement  with  derivative  financial
instruments and does not use them for trading purposes.  The Company enters into
foreign currency forward contracts to hedge short-term intercompany transactions
with its foreign businesses. Such contracts limit the Company's exposure to both
favorable and unfavorable currency fluctuations. These contracts are adjusted to
reflect market values as of each balance sheet date, with the resulting  changes
in fair value being recognized in other charges (income), net.

         The  Company  also  enters  into  certain  interest  rate  cap and swap
agreements  in order to reduce its  exposure to changes in interest  rates.  The
differential  paid or received on interest rate swap agreements is recognized as
interest  expense  over the life of the  agreements  as  incurred.  Realized and
unrealized  gains on interest rate cap  agreements are recognized as adjustments
to interest expense as incurred.

         The Company has entered into certain foreign currency forward contracts
in order to convert  certain U.S. dollar based debt into Swiss franc based debt.
The  Company has also  designated  certain of its Swiss franc debt as a hedge of
its net investments.  Any changes in fair value of the forward contracts and the
debt are recorded in comprehensive  income/(loss) and offset the net investments
which they hedge.

                                        F-9


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


2.            SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES-(CONTINUED)


         Earnings (loss) per Common Share

         Effective December 31, 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 128 ("SFAS 128"),  "Earnings per Share."  Accordingly,
basic  and  diluted  earnings  (loss)  per  common  share  data for each  period
presented have been determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 128. In
accordance  with the treasury stock method,  the Company has included  2,325,132
equivalent shares related to 4,871,842 outstanding options to purchase shares of
common stock,  as described in Note 11, in the  calculation of diluted  weighted
average number of common shares for 1998. Such common stock equivalents were not
included in the  computation of diluted loss per common share for 1996 and 1997,
as the effect is antidilutive.  The Company retroactively  adjusted its weighted
average  common  shares for the purpose of the basic and diluted loss per common
share  computations  for the  1996  and 1997  periods  pursuant  to SFAS 128 and
Securities and Exchange  Commission Staff  Accounting  Bulletin No. 98 issued in
February 1998.

         Reporting Comprehensive Income

         Effective  January 1, 1998, the Company adopted  Statement of Financial
Accounting  Standards No. 130 ("SFAS 130"),  "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income."
SFAS 130  requires  that  changes in the  amounts of  certain  items,  including
foreign currency translation adjustments,  be shown in the financial statements.
The Company has displayed comprehensive  income/(loss) and its components in the
Consolidated  Statements of Changes in Net  Assets/Shareholders'  Equity.  Prior
year financial  statements have been restated to reflect the application of SFAS
130 as  required  by the  standard.  The  adoption  of SFAS  130 did not  have a
material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements.

         Stock Based Compensation

         The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, 
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations in
accounting for its stock option plan.

         Concentration of Credit Risk

         The Company's  revenue base is widely  diversified by geographic region
and by  individual  customer.  The  Company's  products  are  utilized  in  many
different  industries,  although extensively in the pharmaceutical and chemicals
industries.  The Company performs  ongoing credit  evaluations of its customers'
financial condition and, generally, requires no collateral from its customers.


                                        F-10


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


3.            BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

         During  1998,  the  Company  spent   approximately   $44.9  million  on
acquisitions and other investing  activities including seller financing of $12.0
million  and  assumed  debt of $3.1  million  as well as  contingent  and  other
payments  associated with  acquisitions  consummated in 1997. The Company may be
required  to make  additional  earn-out  payments  relating  to certain of these
acquisitions in the future.

         In July 1998, the Company  acquired Bohdan  Automation  Inc., a leading
supplier of laboratory automation and automated synthesis products.  The Company
accounted  for  the  acquisition   using  the  purchase  method  of  accounting.
Accordingly,  the costs of the acquisition were allocated to the assets acquired
and liabilities  assumed based upon their  respective  fair values.  The Company
incurred a charge of $10.0 million  immediately  following the acquisition based
upon an independent  valuation for purchased  research and development costs for
products being developed that have not established  technological feasibility as
of the date of acquisition  which, if unsuccessful,  have no alternative  future
use in research and  development  activities or otherwise.  The Company  expects
that the projects  underlying  these  research and  development  efforts will be
substantially completed over the next two years.

         In December  1998, the Company  announced that it had acquired  Applied
Systems  and Myriad  Synthesizer  Technology.  The Company  accounted  for these
acquisitions using the purchase method of accounting.

         Applied  Systems  designs,   assembles  and  markets   instruments  for
in-process  molecular  analysis,   which  is  primarily  used  for  researching,
developing and  monitoring  chemical  processes.  Applied  Systems'  proprietary
sensors,  together with its innovative  Fourier transform  infrared  technology,
enable  chemists to analyze  chemical  reactions  as they  occur,  which is more
efficient than pulling samples.

         Myriad   Synthesizer   Technology   designs,   assembles   and  markets
instruments  that  facilitate  and  automate the  synthesis of large  numbers of
chemical  compounds  in parallel,  which is a key step in the chemical  compound
discovery  process.  Its products can be used in all stages of synthesis in drug
discovery.

         In May 1997,  the Company  purchased the entire issued share capital of
Safeline Limited  ("Safeline"),  a manufacturer of metal detection systems based
in Manchester  in the United  Kingdom,  for  approximately  (pound)63.7  million
(approximately  $104.4  million  at May  30,  1997),  including  a  post-closing
adjustment of (pound)1.9  million which was paid in October 1997 and an earn-out
of  (pound)0.8  million  which  was paid in June  1998.  Under  the terms of the
agreement,  the Company paid approximately  (pound)13.7  million  (approximately
$22.4 million) in the form of seller loan notes which mature May 30, 1999.

         The Company  accounted for the Safeline  acquisition using the purchase
method of accounting. The Company incurred a charge of $30.0 million immediately
following  the  acquisition  based upon an  independent  valuation for purchased
research and development  costs. The  technological  feasibility of the products
being developed had not been  established as of the date of the acquisition and,
if  unsuccessful,  had no  alternative  future use in research  and  development
activities or otherwise. In addition, the Company allocated $2.1 million of

                                        F-11


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


3.            BUSINESS COMBINATIONS-(CONTINUED)


the purchase price to revalue certain finished goods  inventories to fair value.
Substantially  all of such  inventories were sold in the second quarter of 1997.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition  over the fair value of the net assets
acquired is being amortized over 30 years.

         On October 15,  1996,  the Company  acquired the  Mettler-Toledo  group
("Predecessor")  from  Ciba-Geigy  for cash  consideration  of CHF 505.0 million
(approximately   $402.0  million)  including  dividends  of  CHF  109.4  million
(approximately  $87.1  million)  which were paid to  Ciba-Geigy  by the  Company
("Acquisition").  The Company  accounted for the Acquisition  using the purchase
method of accounting.

         In connection with the Acquisition,  the Company allocated,  based upon
independent  valuations,  $114.1  million  of the  purchase  price to  purchased
research and  development in process for products  being  developed that had not
established  technological  feasibility as of the date of acquisition  which, if
unsuccessful,  had  no  alternative  future  use  in  research  and  development
activities  or  otherwise.  Such amount was recorded as an expense in the period
from October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996. Additionally,  the Company allocated
approximately $32.2 million of the purchase price to revalue certain inventories
(principally  work-in-process  and finished goods) to fair value.  Substantially
all of such  inventories  were sold during the period  from  October 15, 1996 to
December 31, 1996. The excess of the cost of the Acquisition over the fair value
of the net assets is being amortized over 32 years.


4.            INVENTORIES, NET

         Inventories, net consisted of the following:

                                                       Successor
                                             -----------------------------
                                             December 31,      December 31,
                                                 1997              1998
                                             ------------      -----------
Raw materials and parts................      $    42,435       $    48,718
Work-in-progress.......................           29,746            32,416
Finished goods.........................           28,968            30,956
                                             -----------       -----------
                                                 101,149           112,090
LIFO reserve...........................             (102)              (31)
                                             -----------        ----------
                                             $   101,047       $   112,059
                                             ===========       ===========


                                        F-12


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

5.            FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISKS

         In 1998, the Company entered into certain five-year  interest rate swap
agreements that fix the interest obligation  associated with $50 million of U.S.
dollar based debt and CHF 207.5  million of Swiss franc based debt from variable
to fixed.  Certain of these agreements have forward starting dates commencing in
2000,  expiring  in 2003.  The fixed rate  associated  with the swap on the U.S.
dollar based debt is 5.93% plus the Company's normal interest margin.  The fixed
rates on the swaps of Swiss  franc  debt vary  between  2.84% and 3.35% plus the
Company's normal interest margin. The swaps are effective at either one-month or
three-month LIBOR rates.

         In  1997,  the  Company  entered  into  three-year  interest  rate  cap
agreements to limit the impact of increases in interest rates on its U.S. dollar
based  debt.  These  agreements  "cap" the effects of an increase in three month
LIBOR above 8.5%. In addition,  the Company has entered into three-year interest
rate swap agreements which swap the interest  obligation  associated with $100.0
million  of U.S.  dollar  based  debt from  variable  to fixed.  The fixed  rate
associated with the swap is 6.09% plus the Company's normal interest margin. The
swap is  effective at  three-month  LIBOR rates up to 7.00%.  During  1997,  the
Company also entered into certain three-year  interest rate swap agreements that
fix the interest  obligation  associated  with CHF 112.5  million of Swiss franc
based debt at rates varying  between  2.17% and 2.49% plus the Company's  normal
interest  margin.  The swaps are effective at one-month LIBOR of which a certain
portion are at rates up to 3.5%.

         The  Company  may  be  exposed  to  credit   losses  in  the  event  of
nonperformance  by the  counterparties  to its derivative  financial  instrument
contracts.  Counterparties are established banks and financial institutions with
high  credit   ratings.   The  Company  has  no  reason  to  believe  that  such
counterparties  will not be able to fully satisfy their  obligations under these
contracts.

         At  December  31,  1997  and  1998,  the fair  value of such  financial
instruments was approximately  $(1.1) million and $(6.6) million,  respectively.
The fair values of all derivative  financial  instruments are estimated based on
current  settlement prices of comparable  contracts obtained from dealer quotes.
The values represent the estimated amount the Company would pay to terminate the
agreements at the reporting date,  taking into account current  creditworthiness
of the counterparties.


                                        F-13


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

6.            PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

         Property, plant and equipment, net, consisted of the following:

                                                               Successor
                                                --------------------------------
                                                   December 31,     December 31,
                                                       1997             1998    
                                                  ------------      -----------
         Land.................................    $   58,226        $   48,080
         Buildings and leasehold improvements.       111,065           113,473
         Machinery and equipment..............        93,418           117,032
         Computer software....................         3,948             6,942
                                                  ----------        ----------
                                                     266,657           285,527
         Less accumulated depreciation 
         and amortization.....................       (31,395)          (55,263)
                                                  ----------        ---------- 
                                                  $  235,262        $  230,264
                                                  ==========        ==========


7.            OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS

         Other assets include  deferred  financing fees of $3.8 million and $3.1
million,  net of  accumulated  amortization  of $0.1 million and $0.6 million at
December  31, 1997 and 1998,  respectively.  Also  included in other  assets are
restricted  bank  deposits of $1.8 million and $1.6 million at December 31, 1997
and 1998, respectively. Other assets at December 31, 1997 and 1998 also included
a loan due from the Company's  Chief  Executive  Officer of  approximately  $0.7
million.  This loan bears an  interest  rate of 5% and is payable  upon  demand,
which may not be made until 2003.

8.           SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND CURRENT MATURITIES OF LONG-TERM DEBT

       Short-term   borrowings  and  current   maturities  of  long-term  debt
       consisted of the following:


                                                               Successor
                                                     ---------------------------
                                                      December 31,  December 31,
                                                          1997          1998
                                                     ------------    -----------
       Current maturities of long-term debt.......     $ 14,915       $ 19,955
       Borrowings under revolving credit facility.       33,320             --
       Other short-term borrowings................        8,195         26,477
                                                       --------       --------
                                                       $ 56,430       $ 46,432
                                                       ========       ========
 
                                        F-14



         The  Acquisition  from  Ciba-Geigy was financed in part from borrowings
under a previous credit  agreement of $307.0 million and $135.0 million from the
issuance of 9 3/4% senior subordinated notes due 2006 (the "Notes").

         At the  time of the  Safeline  acquisition  in May  1997,  the  Company
refinanced its previous credit facility and entered into a new credit  facility.
The  Company  recorded  an  extraordinary  loss of  approximately  $9.6  million
representing  a charge for the write-off of  capitalized  debt issuance fees and
related expenses associated with the Company's previous credit facility.

         In connection  with the Company's  initial public  offering in November
1997, the Company refinanced its existing credit facility by entering into a new
credit  facility (the "Credit  Agreement").  Concurrent  with the initial public
offering and refinancing,  the Company  consummated a tender offer to repurchase
the Notes.  In connection with the  refinancing  and the Notes  repurchase,  the
Company recorded an extraordinary  loss of $31.6 million primarily  representing
the premium paid in  connection  with the early  extinguishment  of the Notes of
$17.9 million and the  write-off of  capitalized  debt issuance fees  associated
with the Notes and the Company's previous credit facility.

         The  Company  has a  multi-currency  $400.0  million  revolving  credit
facility and a CDN $26.3 million  Canadian  revolving  credit facility under the
Credit  Agreement.  Loans under these revolving credit  facilities may be repaid
and  reborrowed  and are due in full on May 19, 2004. At December 31, 1998,  the
Company had approximately  $233.6 million of additional borrowing capacity under
its Credit  Agreement.  The Company has the ability to refinance its  short-term
borrowings  through  its  revolving   facilities  for  an  uninterrupted  period
extending  beyond one year.  Accordingly,  approximately  $166.7  million of the
Company's  short-term  borrowings at December 31, 1998 have been reclassified to
long-term.

                                        F-15


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


9.            LONG-TERM DEBT -(CONTINUED)


         The aggregate  maturities of long-term  obligations  during each of the
years 2000 through 2003 are approximately  $24.9 million,  $34.9 million,  $34.9
million and $39.9 million, respectively.

         The  Company  is  required  to pay a facility  fee based  upon  certain
financial  ratios  per annum on the  amount  of its  revolving  facilities.  The
facility  fee at December  31, 1998 was equal to 0.25%.  At December  31,  1998,
borrowings under the Company's revolving  facilities carried an interest rate of
LIBOR plus 0.50%.  The  Company's  weighted  average  interest rate for the year
ended December 31, 1998 was approximately 6.0%.

         The Credit Agreement contains covenants,  including  limitations on the
Company's  ability to pay dividends to shareholders,  incur  indebtedness,  make
investments,  grant liens,  sell  financial  assets and engage in certain  other
activities. The Credit Agreement also requires the Company to maintain a minimum
net worth, a minimum fixed charge coverage  ratio,  and a ratio of total debt to
EBITDA below a specified maximum.

         The estimated fair value of the Company's  obligations under the Credit
Agreement  approximate  fair  value  due  to the  variable  rate  nature  of the
obligations.


10.           SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

         Common Stock

         In November 1997, pursuant to a merger with its wholly owned subsidiary
Mettler-Toledo Holding Inc., each share of the Company's existing Class A, Class
B and Class C common stock was converted  into  12.58392  shares of common stock
and the number of authorized  shares was increased to 125,000,000  shares with a
par value of $0.01 per share.  Concurrently therewith,  the Company completed an
underwritten  initial public  offering of 7,666,667  shares at a public offering
price of $14.00 per share.  The net proceeds from the offering of  approximately
$97.3  million  were  used to repay a portion  of the  Company's  9 3/4%  senior
subordinated  notes  (see  Note 9). As part of the  offering  the  Company  sold
approximately  287,000 shares of its common stock to Company  sponsored  benefit
funds at the public  offering price.  Holders of the Company's  common stock are
entitled to one vote per share.

         At December 31, 1998,  6,327,573  shares of the Company's  common stock
were reserved for the Company's stock option plan.

         Preferred Stock

         The Board of Directors,  without further shareholder authorization,  is
authorized to issue up to 10,000,000  shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01
per share in one or more series and to determine and fix the rights, preferences
and privileges of each series,  including  dividend rights and preferences  over
dividends  on the common  stock and one or more series of the  preferred  stock,
conversion  rights,  voting  rights  (in  addition  to those  provided  by law),
redemption  rights and the terms of any sinking fund therefore,  and rights upon
liquidation,  dissolution or winding up,  including  preferences over the common
stock and one or more



                                        F-16


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


11.           STOCK OPTION PLAN

series of the preferred stock. The issuance of shares of preferred stock, or the
issuance of rights to purchase  such  shares,  may have the effect of  delaying,
deferring  or  preventing  a change in control of the Company or an  unsolicited
acquisition proposal.

         Effective  October 15, 1996, the Company adopted a stock option plan to
provide certain key employees and directors of the Company additional  incentive
to join and/or  remain in the service of the Company as well as to maintain  and
enhance the long-term performance and profitability of the Company.

         Under the terms of the plan,  options granted shall be nonqualified and
the  exercise  price shall not be less than the fair market  value of the common
stock on the date of grant.  Options  vest  equally over a five year period from
the date of grant.

         Stock option activity is shown below:
                                                              Weighted Average
                                            Number of Shares    Exercise Price
                                            ----------------  ---------------- 
Outstanding at December 31, 1996...........        3,510,747             $7.95
Granted....................................        1,028,992             14.68
Forfeited..................................        (130,999)            (7.95)
                                                   ---------            ------
Outstanding at December 31, 1997...........        4,408,740             $9.75
Granted....................................          670,000             21.48
Exercised..................................         (64,349)            (8.26)
Forfeited..................................        (142,549)            (7.95)
                                                   ---------            ------
Outstanding at December 31, 1998...........        4,871,842            $11.30
                                                   =========            ======

Shares exercisable at December 31, 1998....        1,507,399             $8.87
                                                   =========              ====

         At December 31, 1998, the weighted average  remaining  contractual life
of outstanding  options was approximately 8.0 years. These options have exercise
prices ranging from $7.95 to $21.50.

         As of the date granted,  the weighted average  grant-date fair value of
the options granted during the period from October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996
and for the years  ended  December  31, 1997 and 1998 was  approximately  $1.99,
$3.37 and $8.11 per share,  respectively.  Such weighted average grant-date fair
value was  determined  using an option  pricing  model  which  incorporated  the
following assumptions:

                                                   Successor
                              --------------------------------------------------
                               For the period      Year ended        Year ended
                              October 15, 1996 to  December 31,     December 31,
                              December 31, 1996       1997             1998
                              -------------------  ------------     ------------
Risk-free interest rate...            4.0%            5.4%             5.2%
Expected life in years....              7               4                4
Expected volatility.......             --              26%              39%
Expected dividend yield...             --              --               --



                                        F-17


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


11.            STOCK OPTION PLAN -(CONTINUED)


         The  Company  applies  Accounting  Standards  Board  Opinion No. 25 and
related  interpretations  in accounting for its plans. Had compensation cost for
the  Company's  stock option plan been  determined  based upon the fair value of
such  awards at the grant date,  consistent  with the  methods of  Statement  of
Financial   Accounting   Standards   No.  123   "Accounting   for  Stock   Based
Compensation,"  the  Company's  net  earnings  (loss) and basic and  diluted net
earnings  (loss) per common share for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998
would have been as follows:

                                                     Successor
                                            ----------------------------
                                            Year ended        Year ended
                                            December 31,     December 31,
                                               1997             1998
                                            ------------     -----------
Net earnings (loss):
    As reported...........................     $(65,106)        $37,625
    Pro forma.............................      (66,417)         35,475
                                                =======          ======
Basic earnings (loss) per common share:
    As reported...........................       $(2.06)          $0.98
    Pro forma.............................        (2.10)           0.92
                                                  ======           ====
Diluted earnings (loss) per common share:
    As reported...........................       $(2.06)          $0.92
    Pro forma.............................        (2.10)           0.87
                                                  =====            ====
 


12.           BENEFIT PLANS

         Mettler-Toledo  maintains a number of retirement  plans for the benefit
of its employees.

         Certain  companies  sponsor defined  contribution  plans.  Benefits are
determined  and  funded  annually  based  upon the terms of the  plans.  Amounts
recognized  as cost under these plans  amounted to $9.5  million,  $2.5 million,
$8.9  million  and $8.2  million  for the period  January 1, 1996 to October 14,
1996,  for the period  October 15,  1996 to December  31, 1996 and for the years
ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively.

         Certain companies sponsor defined benefit plans.  Benefits are provided
to employees  primarily based upon years of service and employees'  compensation
for certain  periods  during the last years of  employment.  The Company's  U.S.
operations  also provide  postretirement  medical  benefits to their  employees.
Contributions for medical benefits are related to employee years of service.

                                        F-18


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


12.           BENEFIT PLANS -(CONTINUED)


         The following  table sets forth the change in benefit  obligation,  the
change  in  plan  assets,  the  funded  status  and  amounts  recognized  in the
consolidated  financial  statements for the Company's  principal defined benefit
plans and postretirement plans at December 31, 1997 and 1998:




                                        F-19


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

12.           BENEFIT PLANS -(CONTINUED)

         The assumed discount rates and rates of increase in future compensation
level used in calculating the projected  benefit  obligations  vary according to
the  economic  conditions  of the  country  in which  the  retirement  plans are
situated. The range of rates used for the purposes of the above calculations are
as follows:
                                                   1997                 1998
                                                ------------        ------------
Discount rate.........................          6.0% to 8.5%        5.0% to 8.5%
Compensation increase rate............          2.0% to 6.5%        2.0% to 6.5%

         The expected  long term rates of return on plan assets  ranged  between
7.0% and 10.0% for 1996, 6.0% and 9.5% for 1997 and 5.0% and 9.5% in 1998.

         Plan assets  relate  principally  to the Company's  U.S.  companies and
consist  of  equity  investments,  obligations  of the  U.S.  Treasury  or other
governmental agencies, and other interest-bearing investments.

         Net periodic  pension cost for the defined  benefit plans  includes the
following components:
 






         The  accumulated  postretirement  benefit  obligation  and net periodic
postretirement  benefit cost were principally determined using discount rates of
7.6% in 1996,  7.0% in 1997 and 6.7% in 1998 and health  care cost  trend  rates
ranging from 8.0% to 9.5% in 1996, 1997 and 1998, decreasing to 5.0% in 2005.

         The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant  effect on
the   accumulated   postretirement   benefit   obligation   and   net   periodic
postretirement  benefit cost. A  one-percentage-point  change in assumed  health
care cost trend rates would have the following effects:


                                        F-20


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

12.           BENEFIT PLANS -(CONTINUED)


                                               One-Percentage-   One-Percentage-
                                               Point Increase    Point Decrease
                                               --------------    ---------------

Effect on total of service and 
   interest cost components.........               $  486            $     (278)

Effect on postretirement benefit 
   obligation.......................               $4,044            $   (3,627)



13.           TAXES

         The sources of the Company's  earnings  (loss)  before taxes,  minority
interest and extraordinary items were as follows:

                                                                  Predecessor
                                                              ------------------
                                                                For the period
                                                              January 1, 1996 to
                                                               October 14, 1996
                                                              ------------------

Switzerland..................................................        $ 21,241
Non-Switzerland..............................................           3,912
Earnings before taxes, minority interest and extraordinary           -------- 
  items......................................................        $ 25,153
                                                                     ========
  

                                                     Successor
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                  For the period      Year ended    Year ended
                                 October 15, 1996 to  December 31,  December 31,
                                 December 31, 1996       1997           1998
                                 -------------------  -----------   ------------
United States..................   $  (37,293)         $(14,178)      $ (2,172)
Non-United States..............     (122,783)            8,226         61,707
                                    --------           -------         ------
Earnings (loss) before taxes,
   minority interest and 
   extraordinary items.........   $ (160,076)        $  (5,952)      $ 59,535
                                  ==========         =========       ========


                                        F-21


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

13.           TAXES -(CONTINUED)



         The provision (benefit) for taxes consists of:





     The  adjustments to goodwill  during the years ending December 31, 1997 and
1998 relate to tax benefits utilized which were not previously recognized in the
purchase price allocation pertaining to previous acquisitions.

                                        F-22


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

13.           TAXES -(CONTINUED)


     The provision for tax expense for the period January 1, 1996 to October 14,
1996 where the Company  operated as a group of  businesses  owned by  Ciba-Geigy
differed from the amounts  computed by applying the  Switzerland  federal income
tax rate of 9.8% to earnings  before taxes and minority  interest as a result of
the following:
                                                         Predecessor
                                                       -----------------
                                                        For the period
                                                      January 1, 1996 to
                                                       October 14, 1996
                                                      ------------------
Expected tax.......................................        $  2,465
Switzerland Canton (state) and local income taxes,
  net of federal income tax benefit................           3,573
Non-deductible intangible amortization.............             205
Change in valuation allowance......................           1,235
Non-Switzerland income taxes in excess of 9.8%.....           2,291
Other, net.........................................             286
                                                           --------
Total provision for taxes..........................        $ 10,055
                                                           ========

        The provision for tax expense (benefit) for the period October 15,
1996 to  December  31,  1996 and for the  years  ended  December  31, 1997
and 1998, subsequent  to the  Acquisition  described in Note 3,  differed 
from the amounts computed by applying  the United  States  federal  income
tax rate of 35% to the earnings/(loss) before taxes, minority interest and
extraordinary  items as a result of the following:


                                        F-23


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

13.           TAXES -(CONTINUED)


         The tax effects of temporary  differences that give rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax  liabilities  are presented
below:



     The  Company  has  established   valuation  allowances  primarily  for  net
operating losses, deferred losses as well as postretirement and pension costs as
follows:



         The total valuation  allowances  relating to acquired businesses amount
to $35.5 million and $35.0 million at December 31, 1997 and 1998,  respectively.
Future reductions of these valuation allowances will be credited to goodwill.

         At December 31, 1998, the Company had net operating loss  carryforwards
for U.S.  federal income tax purposes of $27.4  million,  all of which expire in
2012.  The Company  has  various  U.S.  state net  operating  losses and various
foreign operating losses which expire in varying amounts through 2012.


                                        F-24


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

14.           OTHER CHARGES (INCOME), NET

         Other  charges  (income),  net consists  primarily of foreign  currency
transactions,  interest income,  charges related to the Company's  restructuring
programs and gains on the sale of property, plant and equipment.

         The Company recorded restructuring charges of $6.3 million during 1997.
These charges were incurred in connection  with the closure of three  facilities
in North America and comprised  primarily  severance and other related  benefits
and costs of  exiting  facilities,  including  lease  termination  costs and the
write-down  of  existing  assets to their  expected  net  realizable  value.  In
connection  with the  closure of these  facilities,  the  Company  involuntarily
terminated   approximately   70   employees.   The  Company  had  also  recorded
restructuring charges of $2.6 million in 1998 primarily for workforce reductions
and other cash  outflows.  The Company  undertook  these  actions as part of its
efforts to reduce costs through re-engineering.

         The period  October  15, 1996 to December  31, 1996  included  employee
severance  benefits  associated with the Company's general  headcount  reduction
programs in Europe and North America of $4.6 million and the  realignment of the
analytical  and  precision  balance  business in  Switzerland  of $6.2  million.
Severance and other exit costs of $1.9 million for the period January 1, 1996 to
October 14, 1996 represented  employee  severance of $1.6 million and other exit
costs of $0.3 million associated with the closing of the Company's  Westerville,
Ohio  facility.  In  connection  with such  programs  the  Company  reduced  its
workforce by 168 employees in 1996.

         A  rollforward  of  the   components  of  the  Company's   accrual  for
restructuring activities is as follows:

                                                              Successor
                                                        ---------------------
                                                          1997           1998
                                                          ----           ----
Beginning of the year...........................       $10,762         $8,758
Restructuring accrual for North American                         
  operations and other..........................         6,300          2,611
Reductions in workforce and other cash outflows.        (7,182)        (9,441)
Non-cash write-downs of property, plant and                      
  equipment.....................................          (540)          (188)
Impact of foreign currency......................          (582)            91
                                                        ------        -------
End of the year.................................        $8,758         $1,831
                                                        ======         ======

         The Company's accrual for restructuring activities at December 31, 1998
primarily consisted of lease termination,  other costs of exiting facilities and
severance.

                                        F-25


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

15.           COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

         Operating Leases

         The  Company  leases  certain of its  facilities  and  equipment  under
operating  leases.  The  future  minimum  lease  payments  under  non-cancelable
operating leases are as follows at December 31, 1998:


                           1999...................           $14,702
                           2000...................            11,141
                           2001...................             7,986
                           2002...................             6,375
                           2003...................             4,895
                           Thereafter.............             8,088
                                                               -----
                           Total..................           $53,187
                                                             =======

         Rent  expense for  operating  leases  amounted to $13.0  million,  $3.4
million,  $16.4  million  and $17.7  million  for the period  January 1, 1996 to
October 14, 1996,  for the period  October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996 and for
the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively.

         Legal

         The Company is party to various legal  proceedings,  including  certain
environmental matters,  incidental to the normal course of business.  Management
does not expect that any of such proceedings will have a material adverse effect
on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.



16.      SEGMENT REPORTING

         In fiscal 1998, the Company adopted  Statement of Financial  Accounting
Standards No. 131 ("SFAS 131"), "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and
Related  Information." SFAS 131 establishes  standards for reporting information
about operating  segments in annual financial  statements and requires  selected
information  about  operating  segments in interim  financial  reports issued to
shareholders.  Operating  segments are defined as  components  of an  enterprise
about which  separate  financial  information  is  available  that is  evaluated
regularly  by the chief  operating  decision-maker  in deciding  how to allocate
resources  and  in  assessing   performance.   The  Company's   chief  operating
decision-maker  directs the allocation of resources to operating  segments based
on the  profitability  and cash  flows  of each  respective  segment.  Operating
segments are the individual reporting units within the Company.  These units are
managed separately,  and it is at this level where the determination of resource
allocation is made.

         The  units  have  been  aggregated  based  on  operating   segments  in
geographical  regions that have similar  economic  characteristics  and meet the
aggregation criteria of SFAS 131. The Company has determined that there are five
reportable  segments:  Principal U.S.  Operations,  Principal  Central  European
Operations,  Swiss  R&D  and  Manufacturing  Operations,  Other  Western  Europe
Operations  and  Other.  Principal  U.S.  Operations  represent  certain  of the
Company's  marketing and producing  organizations  located in the United States.
Principal Central European  Operations  primarily  includes the Company's German
marketing and producing organizations that primarily serve the German market

                                        F-26


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

16.      SEGMENT REPORTING -(CONTINUED)


and, to a lesser extent, Europe. Swiss R&D and Manufacturing  Operations consist
of the  organizations  located  in  Switzerland  that  are  responsible  for the
development,  production  and  marketing  of  precision  instruments,  including
weighing,  analytical  and  measurement  technologies  for use in a  variety  of
industrial  and  laboratory  applications.  Other  Western  European  Operations
include  the  Company's  market  organizations  in Western  Europe  that are not
included  in  Principal  Central  European  Operations.   The  Company's  market
organizations are geographically  focused and are responsible for all aspects of
the  Company's  sales and service.  Operating  segments that exist outside these
reportable segments are included in Other.

         The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those
described  in the  summary  of  significant  accounting  policies.  The  Company
evaluates  performance  based on adjusted  operating  income  (gross profit less
research and development and selling, general and administration expenses before
amortization  and  non-recurring  costs).  Intersegment  sales and transfers are
priced to reflect  consideration of market conditions and the regulations of the
countries in which the transferring  entities are located.  The following tables
show the operations of the Company's operating segments:





         A reconciliation of adjusted operating income to earnings (loss) before
taxes, minority interest and extraordinary items follows:


                                        F-28


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)

16.      SEGMENT REPORTING -(CONTINUED)

         The Company sells precision instruments, including weighing instruments
and certain analytical and measurement  technologies,  and related  after-market
support  to a variety  of  customers  and  industries.  None of these  customers
account  for more than 2.6% of net  sales.  After-market  support  revenues  are
primarily derived from parts and services such as calibration, certification and
repair, much of which is provided under contracts. A break-down of the Company's
sales by product category follows:




         The  breakdown  of net sales by  geographic  customer  destination  and
property, plant and equipment, net are as follows:



                                        F-29


                   METTLER-TOLEDO INTERNATIONAL INC.
                 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS-(Continued)
                    (In thousands unless otherwise stated)


17.           QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

         Quarterly financial data for the years 1997 and 1998 are as follows:




                                        F-30


Schedule I

Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedule

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Mettler-Toledo International Inc.:

Under date of February 5, 1999, we reported on the  consolidated  balance sheets
of Mettler-Toledo  International  Inc. and subsidiaries (as defined in Note 1 to
the consolidated financial statements) as of December 31, 1997 and 1998, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, net assets / shareholders' equity
and cash  flows  for the  period  January  1,  1996 to  October  14,  1996,  the
Predecessor  period,  for the period  October 15, 1996 to December 31, 1996, and
for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, the Successor periods,  included
herein.  In  connection  with  our  audits  of the  aforementioned  consolidated
financial  statements,  we  also  audited  the  related  consolidated  financial
statement  schedule  included  under  Item 14 of the Form 10-K.  This  financial
statement  schedule  is the  responsibility  of the  Company's  management.  Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on this  financial  statement  schedule
based on our audits.

In our opinion,  such financial statement schedule,  when considered in relation
to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly,
in all material respects, the information set forth therein.


KPMG Fides Peat


Zurich, Switzerland
February 5, 1999





                                     

