Item 1/ Business



American International
  Group, Inc. (AIG)is a
  leading global insurance organization. Founded in 1919, today we provide a
  wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement
  products, mortgage insurance and other financial services to customers in
  more than 100 countries and jurisdictions. Our diverse offerings include
  products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their
  assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is
  listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.AIG’s key strengths include:World class insurance franchisesthat are among the leaders in their categories and are focused
  on improving their operating performance;A diverse mix of businesseswith a presence in most international markets;Effective capital managementof the largest shareholders’ equity of any insurance
  company in the world*, supported by enhanced risk management;Breadth of customers,serving over 89 percent of companies included in the Fortune
  Global 500; andBalance sheet quality and strength,as demonstrated by over $89 billion in
  shareholders’ equity and AIG Parent liquidity of $13.7 billion.

*   At June 30, 2015, the latest date
for which information was available for certain foreign insurance companies.



In this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates
otherwise, we use the terms “AIG,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer
to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its
consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term “AIG Parent” to refer solely to
American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated
subsidiaries.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG

AIG’s Global Insurance Operations

We report our results of
  operations through two reportable segments:  Commercial Insurance and
  Consumer Insurance, as well as a Corporate and Other category.Commercial Insurance has three operating segments:
  Property Casualty, Mortgage Guaranty and Institutional Markets. Consumer
  Insurance also has three operating segments: Retirement, Life and Personal
  Insurance. The Corporate and Other category consists of businesses and items
  not allocated to our reportable segments.

Certain of our management activities,
  such as investment management, enterprise risk management, liquidity
  management and capital management, and our balance sheet reporting, are
  conducted on a legal entity basis.  We group our insurance-related legal
  entities into two categories: Non-Life Insurance Companies, and Life
  Insurance Companies.

Non-Life
  Insurance Companies include the following major property casualty and
  mortgage guaranty companies: National Union Fire Insurance Company of
  Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union); American Home Assurance Company (American
  Home); Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington); Fuji Fire and Marine
  Insurance Company Limited (Fuji Fire); American Home Assurance Company, Ltd.
  (American Home Japan); AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd.; AIG Europe
  Limited; United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company (UGRIC)

Life Insurance Companies include the following
  major operating companies: American General Life Insurance Company (American
  General Life); The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC); The
  United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (U.S. Life); AIG
  Fuji Life Insurance Company Limited (Fuji Life).

On January 26, 2016, we
  announced several actions designed to create a leaner, more profitable and
  focused insurer. These actions included a plan to reorganize our operating
  model into “modular”, more self-contained business units to enhance
  transparency and accountability. Additionally, we are introducing a new
  Legacy Portfolio that aims to maximize value and release capital of certain run-off
  non-strategic assets and highlight progress on improving the return on equity
  (ROE) of our Operating Portfolio. When the new operating structure is
  finalized, the presentation of our segment results may be modified and prior
  periods’ presentation may be revised to conform to the new structure. Based
  on this strategy, we have updated our priorities for 2016.

AIG Priorities for 2016

AIG is focused on the following
  priorities for 2016:·Improving our ROE·Creating a leaner, more profitable and focused insurer by
  reorganizing our operating model into “modular”, more self-contained business
  units to enhance transparency and accountability, including the introduction
  of a new Legacy Portfolio that aims to maximize value and release capital
  from run-off of non-strategic assets·Reducing general operating expenses·Improving the Commercial Insurance Property Casualty accident
  year loss ratio·Returning excess capital to shareholders·Growing book value per common share












TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG(a) Total consideration of
approximately $7.6 billion, includes net cash proceeds of $2.4 billion and 97.6
million newly issued AerCap common shares. Based in part on AerCap's closing
price per share of $47.01 on May 13, 2014, the date the sale of ILFC to AerCap
was completed.(b) Book value per
common share excluding AOCI is a non-GAAP measure. See Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)
—Use of Non-GAAP Measures for additional information.5





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG

How we
Generate Revenues and Profitability



We earn
revenuesprimarily from insurance
premiums, policy fees from universal life insurance and investment products, and
income from investments and advisory fees.

Our
expensesconsist of policyholder
benefits and losses incurred, interest credited to policyholders, commissions
and other costs of selling and servicing our products, and general operating
expenses.

Our
profitabilityis dependent on
our ability to properly price and manage risk on insurance and annuity products,
to manage our portfolio of investments effectively, and to control costs
through expense discipline.

INVESTMENT
ACTIVITIES OF Our Insurance OPERATIONS

Our Non-Life Insurance Companies and Life Insurance
  Companies generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying
  covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these
  premiums and deposits to generate net investment income that, along with the
  invested funds, is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we generate
  significant revenues from insurance investment activities.We generate
  significant revenues in our insurance operations from investment activities.Our worldwide
  insurance investment policy places primary emphasis on investments in
  corporate bonds, municipal bonds and government bonds in all of our
  portfolios, and, to a lesser extent, investments in high yield bonds, common
  stock, real estate, hedge funds and other alternative investments.

The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities
consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities.

Non-Life Insurance Companies—Fixed maturity securities held by the insurance
companies included in the Non-Life Insurance Companies’ domestic operations
have historically consisted primarily of corporate bonds, municipal bonds and
government bonds. These investments provided attractive returns and limited
credit risk. To meet our domestic operations’ current risk return and business
objectives, our domestic Non-Life Insurance Companies have been shifting
investment allocations to a broader array of investments, including structured
securities, mortgage loans, equity related opportunities and other investments
that offer attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our fixed maturity securities must
meet our liquidity, duration and quality objectives as well as current capital,
risk return and business objectives. Fixed maturity securities held by the
Non-Life Insurance Companies’ international operations consist primarily of
intermediate duration high-grade securities, primarily in the markets being
served. In addition, the Non-Life Insurance Companies have redeployed cash in
excess of operating needs into investments consistent with the asset classes
described above.

Life Insurance Companies —The investment strategy for the portfolios of the
Life Insurance Companies is largely to match our liabilities with assets of
comparable duration, to the extent practicable. The Life Insurance Companies
primarily invest in a diversified portfolio of fixed maturity securities, which
include corporate bonds and structured securities. To further diversify the
portfolio, investments are selectively made in alternative investments,
including private equity funds, hedge funds and affordable housing
partnerships. See Item 7. MD&A — Investments for additional discussion of
investment strategies.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG

Commercial
  InsuranceConsumer Insurance

Commercial Insuranceis a leading
  provider of insurance products and services for commercial and institutional
  customers. It includes one of the world’s most far-reaching property casualty
  networks, a leading mortgage guaranty insurer and an institutional retirement
  and savings business. Commercial Insurance offers a broad range of products
  to customers through a diversified, multichannel distribution network.
  Customers value Commercial Insurance’s strong capital position, extensive
  risk management and claims experience, and its ability to be a market leader
  in critical lines of insurance business.Consumer Insuranceis a unique franchise that brings together a broad portfolio of
  retirement, life insurance and personal insurance products offered through
  multiple distribution networks.  It holds long-standing, leading market
  positions in many of its U.S. product lines, and its global footprint
  provides the opportunity to leverage its multinational servicing capabilities
  and pursue select opportunities in attractive markets.  With its strong
  capital position, customer-focused service, innovative product development
  capabilities and strong distribution relationships across multiple channels,
  Consumer Insurance is well positioned to provide clients with the products
  and services they desire, delivered through the channels they prefer.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other includes AIG Parent as well as
  certain legacy assets and run-off insurance businesses.








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG

Global FootprintOur Non-Life Insurance Companies net premiums written
  (NPW) of $33.1 billion in 2015 reflected our expansive global footprint.
  Based on NPW in 2014, we are the largest commercial insurer in the U.S., the
  largest U.S. based property casualty insurer in Europe, and the largest
  foreign property casualty insurer in Asia and the Far East.  In addition, AIG
  was first to market in many emerging markets and is well positioned to
  enhance its businesses in countries such as Brazil, China through strategic
  relationships with People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China Limited (PICC
  Group), and India with the Tata Group.Our Life Insurance Companies premiums and deposits
  (P&D) of $32.0 billion in 2015 demonstrate a substantial presence in the
  U.S. and a meaningful share of the Japan market. P&D is a non-GAAP
  financial measure that includes direct and assumed amounts received on
  traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and deposits on
  life‑contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on universal
  life, investment‑type annuity contracts and mutual funds. See
  Item 7. MD&A — Results of Operations for Institutional
  Markets, Retirement and Life for a reconciliation of P&D to premiums.

We have a significant
international presence in both developed markets and growth economy nations,
specifically in Asia Pacific, Central Europe, the Middle East, Africa and South
America. We distribute our products through three major geographic regions:

•Americas:Includes the United States, Canada, Mexico, South America, the Caribbean and
Bermuda.

•Asia Pacific:Includes Japan, China, Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Australia,
Indonesia and other Asia Pacific nations.

•EMEA (Europe,
Middle East and Africa):Includes the United Kingdom, Continental Europe,
the Russian Federation, India, the Middle East and Africa.

In 2015, 6.3 percent and 5.1 percent of our property casualty
direct premiums were written in the states of California and New York,
respectively, and 14.3 percent and 7.2 percent were written in Japan and the
United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign jurisdiction accounted
for more than five percent of such premiums.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIGDiversified Mix of Businesses*(dollars
in millions)*    Represents
revenues from insurance operations.Revenues
for Property Casualty, Mortgage Guaranty, and Personal Insurance include net
premiums earned and net investment income.  Revenues for Institutional Markets,
Retirement and Life include premiums, policy fees, net investment income and
advisory fees.9





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / commercial insuranceCommercial InsuranceBusiness StrategyCustomer:Strive to be our clients’ most valued
  insurer by offering innovative products, superior service and access to an
  extensive global network.Sharpen Commercial Focus:Achieve ROE in excess of target across our businesses
  primarily through improvements in our loss ratio.Improve our business portfolio through risk selection
  by using enhanced data, analytics and the application of science to deliver
  superior risk-adjusted returns. Exit or remediate targeted sub-segments of
  underperforming portfolios that do not meet our risk acceptance or
  profitability objectives.Drive Efficiency:Reorganize our operating model into “modular”, more
  self-contained business units to enhance decision making, transparency and
  accountability, driving performance improvement and strategic flexibility over
  time; increase capital fungibility and diversification, streamline our legal
  entity structure, optimize reinsurance, improve taxefficiency and reduce
  expenses.Invest to Grow:Grow our higher-value businesses while
  investing in transformative opportunities, continuing initiatives to
  modernize our technology and infrastructure, advancing our engineering
  capabilities, innovating new products and client risk services and delivering
  a better client experience.10





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / commercial insurance

Commercial Insurance Competitive Strengths and Challenges

Commercial
  Insurance is a global franchise committed to delivering value to our clients
  through innovative solutions, market-leading expertise and superior service.

Our competitive
  strengths include:

Global franchise–
  long global history, extensive multinational network and leading positions
  and infrastructures in North America, Europe and Asia

Underwriting and claims
  expertise– industry-leading professionals with deep expertise handling
  large, complex and emerging risks

Innovation–  a
  culture of innovation driven by risk management expertise and a focus on
  customer needs

Information and science capabilities– decades of unique proprietary data on wide range of client risks,
  underwriting results and analytical capabilities to generate valuable client
  insights

Service– extensive
  client risk service teams to partner with clients to mitigate their most
  critical risks

Financial strengthand
  market leadership– a well-capitalized, strong balance sheet highly
  valued by customers that allows us to be a market leader in many lines of
  business

Scale– size and
  scope of business facilitates risk diversification to optimize returns on
  capital

Diversification–
  breadth of customers served, products underwritten and distribution channels

Our challenges include:

Information technology
  infrastructurerequires modernization, which puts pressure on our efforts
  to reduce operating expenses

Long-tail exposurescreate
  an added challenge to pricing and risk management

Over capacityin
  certain lines of business creates downward pressure on market pricing

Tort environmentvolatility in certain jurisdictions and lines of business

Volatilityfrom
  natural and man-made catastrophes from a property casualty perspective








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / commercial insurance

A Look atCommercial Insurance

Property Casualty conducts its business primarily through
our Non-Life Insurance Companies.

Mortgage Guaranty conducts its business primarily through
United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company.

Institutional Markets
conducts its business primarily through our Life Insurance Companies.

Commercial Insurance Operating Segments

Commercial Insurance’s current operating segments consist ofProperty Casualty, Mortgage Guaranty and Institutional Markets.

Property Casualty Product Lines

Casualty:Products include general liability, commercial
  automobile liability, workers’ compensation, excess casualty and crisis
  management insurance products. Casualty also includes risk-sharing and other
  customized structured programs for large corporate and multinational
  customers.Property:Products include commercial, industrial and
  energy-related property insurance products and services that cover exposures
  to man-made and natural disasters, including business interruption.Specialty:Products include aerospace, environmental, political
  risk, trade credit, surety and marine insurance, and various small and medium
  sized enterprises insurance lines.Financial:Products include professional liability insurance for a
  range of businesses and risks, including directors and officers liability
  (D&O), fidelity, employment practices, fiduciary liability, cybersecurity
  risk, kidnap and ransom, and errors and omissions insurance (E&O).Property Casualty
  products are primarily distributed through a network of independent retail
  and wholesale brokers, and through a newly acquired leading U.S. managing
  general agent and insurance program administrator.

Mortgage Guaranty Product Lines

Mortgage insurance (MI)
  protects mortgage lenders and investors against the increased risk of
  borrower default related to high loan-to-value (LTV) mortgages.Mortgage Guaranty
  products and services are directly distributed to a comprehensive range of
  mortgage originators including national mortgage, community and money center
  banks, as well as through builder-owned, regional mortgage and
  internet-sourced lender and credit unions.

Institutional
  Markets Product Lines

Products primarily include stable value wrap
  products, structured settlement and terminal funding annuities, high net
  worth products, corporate- and bank-owned life insurance and guaranteed
  investment contracts (GICs).Institutional Markets
  products are primarily distributed through specialized marketing and
  consulting firms and structured settlement brokers.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / commercial insurance

Commercial Insurance Competition

Operating in a highly competitive industry, Property
Casualty competes against several hundred stock companies, specialty insurance
organizations, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations in the
U.S. In international markets, Property Casualty competes for business with the
foreign insurance operations of large global insurance groups and local companies
in specific market areas and product types. Mortgage Guaranty competes with
several private providers of mortgage insurance, both well-established and new
entrants to the industry, and the Federal Housing Administration, which is the
largest provider of mortgage insurance in the United States. Institutional
Markets competes with large domestic (both stock and mutual) life companies, as
well as international life companies.

Insurance companies compete through a combination of risk
acceptance criteria, product pricing, service and terms and conditions.
Commercial Insurance distinguishes itself in the insurance industry primarily
based on its well-established brand, global franchise, financial and capital
strength, innovative products, expertise in providing specialized coverages and
customer service.

We serve our business and
individual customers on a global basis — from the largest multinational
corporations to local businesses and individuals. Our clients benefit from our
substantial underwriting expertise and long-term commitment to the markets we
serve.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insurance

Consumer Insurance

Consumer Insurance is
  focused on achieving improved returns by investing in markets where we can
  grow profitably and sustainably.  Our strategic plan is aligned with our
  vision to be our clients’ most valued insurer.  We intend to enhance our
  operational effectiveness and use of analytics to reduce expenses, increase
  profitability, and facilitate delivery of our target customer
  experience.Business StrategyCustomer:Through our unique franchise, which brings together a
  broad portfolio of retirement, life insurance and personal insurance products
  offered through multiple distribution networks, Consumer Insurance aims to
  provide customers with the products and services they desire, delivered through
  the channels they prefer.

Information-Driven Strategy:Utilize customer insight, analytics and the application of
  science to optimize customer acquisition, product profitability, product mix,
  channel performance and risk management capabilities.

Sharpen Consumer Focus:Invest
  in areas where Consumer Insurance can grow profitably and sustainably. Target
  growth in select markets according to market size, growth potential, market
  maturity and customer demographics, and narrow our footprint in less profitable
  markets with insufficient scale.

Operational Effectiveness:Simplify processes and enhance operating environments to
  increase competitiveness, improve service and product capabilities and
  facilitate delivery of our target customer experience.

Investment Strategy:Maintain a diversified, high quality portfolio of fixed
  maturity securities that largely matches the duration characteristics of
  related insurance liabilities with assets of comparable duration, and pursue
  selective yield-enhancement opportunities that meet liquidity, risk and
  return objectives.

Profitability and Capital Management:Deliver solid earnings through disciplined pricing, sustainable underwriting improvements,
  expense reductions and diversification of risk, and increase capital
  efficiency within insurance entities to enhance ROE.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insurance

Consumer Insurance Competitive Strengths and Challenges

Our competitive
  strengths include:Unique franchise– broad portfolio of retirement, life insurance and personal insurance
  products offered through multiple distribution networksMarket leader–
  long-standing, leading positions in many of our product lines and key
  distribution channelsGlobal business– ability to leverage multinational servicing capabilitiesStrong
  distribution relationships across multiple channels– opportunity to
  expand on distribution relationships to effectively market diverse product
  offeringsInformation and
  science capabilities– used tobuild decision
  tools, transformprocesses and optimize performanceCustomer-focused
  service– investments in technology and operating platforms provide the
  foundation to deliver our target customer experienceRisk
  diversification and scale– breadth of product offerings and scale
  advantage in keyproduct linesCapital strength–
  capacity to drive growth in attractive markets and product linesOur challenges
  include:Highly
  competitive environmentwhere products are differentiated by pricing,
  terms, customer service and ease of doing businessRegulatory
  requirementsin recent years have created an increasingly complex
  environment that is affecting industry growth and profitabilityLow interest rateenvironment makes it more difficult to profitably price many of our products
  and puts margin pressure on existing products due to the challenge of
  investing in a low rate environment



A Look atConsumer
Insurance

The Retirement and Life operating segments conduct their
business primarily through our Life Insurance Companies.

The Personal Insurance operating segment conducts its
business primarily through our Non-Life Insurance Companies.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insurance

Consumer
Insurance Operating Segments

Consumer Insurance’s current operating segments consist ofRetirement,
Life,andPersonal Insurance.

Retirement Product Lines

Fixed Annuities:
  Products include single and
  flexible premium fixed annuities and single premium immediate and deferred
  income annuities. The Fixed Annuities product line maintains its
  industry-leading position in the U.S. bank distribution channel by designing
  products collaboratively with banks and offering an efficient and flexible
  administration platform.Retirement Income Solutions:Primary products include variable and fixed index annuities that provide both
  asset accumulation and lifetime income benefits, as well as
  investment-focused variable annuities.  Variable annuities are distributed
  primarily through banks, wirehouses, and regional and independent broker‑dealers.
  Fixed index annuities are distributed primarily through banks, broker
  dealers, independent marketing organizations and independent insurance agents.Group Retirement:Products
  are marketed under the VALIC brand and include fixed and variable annuities,
  mutual funds, and plan administrative and compliance services. VALIC career
  financial advisors and independent financial advisors provide retirement plan
  participants with enrollment support and comprehensive financial planning services.Retail Mutual Funds:Includes our mutual fund sales and related administration and servicing
  operations.

Life Product Lines

Lifeproducts in the
  U.S. primarily include term life and universal life insurance. International products
  include term and whole life insurance, supplemental health, cancer and
  critical illness insurance. Life products are primarily distributed through
  independent marketing organizations, independent insurance agents, financial
  advisors and direct marketing. The Life operating segment also offers group
  products distributed through employers (both employer-paid and voluntary) and
  sponsored organizations, with the key products being basic and supplemental
  term life, universal life and disability insurance.

Personal Insurance Product Lines

Accident
  and Health: Products include voluntary and sponsor-paid personal accident and
  supplemental health products for individuals, employees, associations and
  other organizations as well as a broad range of travel insurance products and
  services for leisure and business travelers. Accident and Health (A&H)
  products are distributed through various channels, including agents, brokers,
  affinity partners, airlines and travel agents.Personal
  Lines: Products include automobile and
  homeowners insurance, extended warranty, and consumer specialty products,
  such as identity theft and credit card protection. Products are distributed
  through various channels, including agents, brokers and direct marketing.
  Personal Insurance also provides insurance for high net worth individuals
  offered through AIG Private Client Group, including auto, homeowners,
  umbrella, yacht, fine art and collections insurance.










TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insuranceConsumer Insurance CompetitionConsumer
Insurance operates in the highly competitive insurance and financial services
industry in the U.S. and select international markets and competes against
various financial services companies, including mutual funds, banks and other
life and property casualty insurance companies.  Competition is primarily based
on product pricing and design, distribution, financial strength, customer service
and ease of doing business.Consumer
Insurance competes based on its long‑standing market leading positions,
innovative products, distribution relationships across multiple channels,
customer-focused service and strong financial ratings.Corporate
and Otherincludes:Corporate and Otherconsists of assets and income from assets held
by AIG Parent and other corporate subsidiaries, general operating expenses not
attributable to specific reportable segments and interest expense. It also
includes run-off lines of insurance business, including excess workers’
compensation, asbestos and environmental (1986 and prior), certain
environmental liability businesses, certain healthcare coverage, certain
casualty and specialty coverages reported in Eaglestone Reinsurance Company,
and certain long-duration business, primarily in Japan and the U.S.17





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESSOUR
EMPLOYEESAt December 31, 2015, we had approximately 66,400 employees. We
believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory.*Includes employees in
Finance; Enterprise Risk Management; Legal, Regulatory and Compliance; Human
Resources and Administration; and Internal Audit.18





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

A Review of Liability for
Unpaid LOSSES and loss Adjustment Expenses



The liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
(also referred to as loss reserves) represents the accumulation of estimates
for unpaid reported losses (case reserves) and losses that have been incurred
but not reported (IBNR) for the Non-Life Insurance Companies and Eaglestone
Reinsurance Company, including the related expenses of settling those losses.

We recognize as assets the portion of this liability that is
expected to be recovered from reinsurers. Loss reserves are discounted, where
permitted, in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

The Loss Reserve Development
Process

The process of establishing the liability for unpaid losses
and loss adjustment expenses is complex and imprecise because it must take into
consideration many variables that are subject to the outcome of future events.
As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate
exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process.

We use a number of techniques to analyze the adequacy of the
  established net liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (net
  loss reserves). Using these analytical techniques, we monitor the adequacy of
  our established reserves and determine appropriate assumptions for inflation
  and other factors influencing loss costs. Our analyses also take into account
  emerging specific development patterns, such as case reserve redundancies or
  deficiencies and IBNR emergence. We also consider specific factors that may
  impact losses, such as changing trends in medical costs, unemployment levels
  and other economic indicators, as well as changes in legislation and social
  attitudes that may affect decisions to file claims or the magnitude of court
  awards. See Item 7. MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates for a
  description of our loss reserving process.Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of
  future events, changes in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the
  insurance industry. These changes in estimates are sometimes referred to as “prior
  year loss development” or “reserve development.”

A significant portion of the Non-Life Insurance Companies’
reserves are for the U.S. commercial casualty class, including excess casualty,
asbestos and environmental, which tends to involve longer periods of time for
the reporting and settlement of claims than other types of insurance and
therefore may increase the inherent risk and uncertainty with respect to our loss
reserve development.

Analysis of Consolidated Loss
Reserve Development

The “Analysis of Consolidated Loss Reserve Development” table
presents the development of prior year net loss reserves for calendar years
2005 through 2015 for each balance sheet in that period. The information in the
table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC). This table should be interpreted with care by
those not familiar with its format or those who are familiar with other loss
development analyses arranged in an accident year or underwriting year basis
rather than the balance sheet, as shown below. See Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

The top row of the table showsNet Reserves Held(the
net liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses) at each balance
sheet date, net of discount.This liability represents the estimated amount
of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims arising in all years prior to
the balance sheet date that were unpaid as of that balance sheet date,
including estimates for IBNR claims, net of estimated reinsurance recoverable
and loss reserve discount. The estimated reinsurance recoverable is shown near
the bottom of the table. The amount of loss reserve discount included in the
net reserves at each date is shown immediately below the net reserves held. The
undiscounted reserve at each date is equal to the sum of the discount and the
net reserves held. For example,Net Reserves Held (Undiscounted)was
$59.6 billion at December 31, 2005.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

The next section of the table
shows the originalNet Undiscounted Reserves re-estimatedover 10 years.
This re-estimation takes into consideration a number of factors, including
changes in the estimated frequency of reported claims, effects of significant
judgments, the emergence of latent exposures, and changes in medical cost
trends.For example, the original undiscounted reserve of
$59.6 billion at December 31, 2005, was re-estimated to $71.7 billion
at December 31, 2015. The amount of the development related to losses
settled or re-estimated in 2015, but incurred in 2012, is included in the
cumulative development amount for years 2012, 2013 and 2014. Any increase or
decrease in the estimate is reflected in operating results in the period in
which the estimate is changed.

The middle of the table showsNet Deficiency.This
is the aggregate change in estimates over the period of years covered by the
table.For example, the net loss reserve deficiency of $12.1 billion
for 2005 is the difference between the original undiscounted reserve of
$59.6 billion at December 31, 2005 and the $71.7 billion of
re-estimated reserves at December 31, 2015. The net deficiency amounts are
cumulative; in other words, the amount shown in the 2014 column includes the
amount shown in the 2013 column, and so on. Conditions and trends that have
affected development of the liability in the past may not necessarily occur in
the future. Accordingly, it generally is not appropriate to extrapolate future
development based on this table.

The bottom portion of the table shows thePaid
(Cumulative)amounts during successive years related to the undiscounted
loss reserves.For example, as of December 31, 2015, AIG had paid a total
of $58.7 billion of the $71.7 billion in re-estimated reserves for
2005, resulting in Remaining Reserves (Undiscounted) of $13.0 billion for
2005. Also included in this section are theRemaining Reserves
(Undiscounted)and theRemaining Discountfor each year.

As discussed
in footnotes (a) and (b) below, the calendar year distribution of these Paid
(Cumulative) amounts are estimates that are affected by certain transactions,
such as deconsolidations resulting from dispositions. These payment amounts may
differ from the actual losses paid for a given accident year.

The following table presents loss reserves and the
related loss development for 2005 through 2015 and consolidated gross liability
(before discount), reinsurance recoverable and net liability recorded for each
calendar year, and the re‑estimation of these amounts as of
December 31, 2015.(a)

(in millions)20052006200720082009201020112012201320142015

Net Reserves Held(b)$57,476$62,630$69,288$72,455$67,899$71,507$70,825$68,782$64,316$61,612$60,603

Discount (in Reserves Held)2,1102,2642,4292,5742,6553,2173,1833,2463,5553,0773,148

Net Reserves Held (Undiscounted)59,58664,89471,71775,02970,55474,72474,00872,02867,87164,689$63,751



Net undiscounted Reserve

re-estimated as of:

One year later59,53364,23871,83677,80074,73674,91974,42972,58568,57468,808

Two years later60,12664,76474,31882,04374,52975,50275,16773,57172,296

Three years later61,24267,30378,27581,71975,18776,02376,21276,897

Four years later63,87270,73378,24582,42276,05877,03179,050

Five years later67,10270,87679,09883,13577,05479,573

Six years later67,51871,57279,81384,10079,319

Seven years later68,23372,28680,77086,177

Eight years later69,02373,35682,616

Nine years later70,02975,154

Ten years later71,724



Net Deficiency on net reserves held(12,138)(10,260)(10,899)(11,148)(8,765)(4,849)(5,042)(4,869)(4,425)(4,119)

Net Deficiency related to asbestos

and environmental (A&E)(2,798)(2,296)(2,278)(2,229)(2,076)(575)(545)(469)(401)(278)

Net Deficiency excluding A&E(9,340)(7,964)(8,621)(8,919)(6,689)(4,274)(4,497)(4,400)(4,024)(3,841)



Paid (Cumulative) as of:

One year later15,32614,86216,53124,26715,91917,66119,23518,75817,74518,205

Two years later25,15224,38831,79136,16428,42830,62031,76631,26530,658

Three years later32,29534,64740,40146,85638,18340,09141,46441,368

Four years later40,38040,44748,52053,61645,38247,37949,197

Five years later44,47346,47453,59358,51351,10453,449

Six years later49,55250,39157,68662,73456,030

Seven years later52,24353,54561,22166,558






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS



Eight years later54,33256,42464,517Nine years later56,51659,208Ten years later58,703Remaining Reserves (Undiscounted)13,02115,94618,09919,61923,28926,12429,85335,52941,63850,603Remaining Discount1,4541,6101,7761,9422,0912,2572,4292,5942,7782,966Remaining Reserves$11,567$14,336$16,323$17,677$21,198$23,867$27,424$32,935$38,860$47,637Net Liability, End of Year$59,586$64,894$71,717$75,029$70,554$74,724$74,008$72,028$67,871$64,689$63,751Reinsurance Recoverable, End of Year19,69317,36916,21216,80317,48719,64420,32019,20917,23115,64814,339Gross Liability, End of Year79,27982,26387,92991,83288,04194,36894,32891,23785,10280,337$78,090Re-estimated Net Liability71,72475,15482,61686,17779,31979,57379,05076,89772,29668,808Re-estimated Reinsurance Recoverable24,80020,98119,39218,85018,63316,75818,40318,89417,18314,289Re-estimated Gross Liability96,52496,135102,008105,02797,95296,33197,45395,79189,47983,097Cumulative GrossRedundancy (Deficiency)$(17,245)$(13,872)$(14,079)$(13,195)$(9,911)$(1,963)$(3,125)$(4,554)$(4,377)$(2,760)

(a) During
2009, we deconsolidated Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. and sold 21st Century
Insurance Group and HSB Group, Inc. The sales and deconsolidation are reflected
in the table above as a reduction in December 31, 2009 net reserves of $9.7
billion and as an $8.6 billion increase in paid losses for the years 2000
through 2008 to remove the reserves for these divested entities from the ending
balance.

(b) The
increase in Net Reserves Held from 2009 to 2010 is partially due to the $1.7
billion in Net Reserves Held by Fuji Fire, which was acquired in 2010.  The
decrease in 2011 is due to the cession of asbestos reserves described in Item
7. MD&A — Insurance Reserves – Non-Life Insurance Companies— Asbestos
and Environmental (1986 and prior).

The Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
as reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2015 differs from
the total reserves reported in the annual statements filed with state insurance
departments and, when applicable, with foreign regulatory authorities primarily
for the following reasons:

•Reserves for certain foreign operations are not required or permitted to
be reported in the United States for statutory reporting purposes, including
contingency reserves for catastrophic events;

•Statutory practices in the United States require reserves to be shown
net of applicable reinsurance recoverable; and

•Unlike statutory financial statements, our consolidated liability for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses excludes the effect of intercompany
transactions.

Gross loss reserves are calculated without reduction for
reinsurance recoverable and represent the accumulation of estimates for
reported losses and IBNR, net of estimated salvage and subrogation. We review
the adequacy of established gross loss reserves in the manner previously
described for net loss reserves. A reconciliation of activity in the Liability
for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is included in Note 12 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

For further discussion of asbestos and environmental
reserves, see Item 7. MD&A — Insurance Reserves – Non-Life Insurance
Companies— Asbestos and Environmental (1986 and prior).

Reinsurance
Activities



Reinsurance is used primarily to manage overall capital
adequacy and mitigate the insurance loss exposure related to certain events
such as natural and man-made catastrophes.

Our subsidiaries operate worldwide primarily by underwriting
and accepting risks for their direct account on a gross basis and reinsuring a
portion of the exposure on either an individual risk or an aggregate basis to
the extent those risks exceed the desired retention level.In
addition, as a condition of certain direct underwriting transactions, we are
required by clients, agents or regulation to cede all or a portion of risks to
specified reinsurance entities, such as captives, other insurers, local
reinsurers and compulsory pools.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

Over the last several years, the Non-Life
Insurance Companies revised the ceded reinsurance framework and strategy to
improve capital management and support our global product line risk and
profitability objectives.  As a result of adopting the revised framework
and strategy, many individual reinsurance contracts were consolidated into more
efficient global programs and therefore, reinsurance ceded to third parties in
support of risk and capital management objectives has remained stable in 2015
compared to 2014. We continually evaluate the relative attractiveness of
different forms of reinsurance contracts and different markets that may be used
to achieve our risk and profitability objectives.

Reinsurance markets include:

•Traditional local and global reinsurance markets including those in the
United States, Bermuda, London and Europe, accessed directly and through
reinsurance intermediaries;

•Capital markets through insurance-linked securities and collateralized
reinsurance transactions, such as catastrophe bonds, sidecars and similar
vehicles; and

•Other insurers that engage in both direct and assumed reinsurance.

The form of reinsurance that we may choose from time to time
will generally depend on whether we are seeking:

•proportional
reinsurance, whereby we cede a specified percentage of premiums and losses to
reinsurers;

•non-proportional
or excess of loss reinsurance, whereby we cede all or a specified portion of
losses in excess of a specified amount on a per risk, per occurrence (including
catastrophe reinsurance) or aggregate basis; or

•facultative contracts that reinsure individual policies.

Reinsurance contracts do not relieve our subsidiaries from
their direct obligations to insureds. However, an effective reinsurance program
substantially mitigates our exposure to potentially significant losses.

In certain markets, we are required to participate on a
proportional basis in reinsurance pools based on our relative share of direct
writings in those markets.  Such mandatory reinsurance generally covers
higher-risk consumer exposures such as assigned-risk automobile and earthquake,
as well as certain commercial exposures such as workers’ compensation.

See Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk
Management – Insurance Operations Risks – Non-Life Insurance
Companies Key Insurance Risks – Reinsurance Recoverable for a summary of
significant reinsurers.

REGULATion



Our
operations around the world are subject to regulation by many different types
of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, derivatives,
investment advisory and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad.

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and
supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business.  The
insurance and financial services industries generally have been subject to
heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision in recent years.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

The following summary provides
a general overview of our primary regulators and related bodies and a brief
description of their oversight with respect to us and our subsidiaries, including
key regulations or initiatives that we are currently, or may in the future be,
subject to. Such regulations and initiatives, both in the United States and
abroad, are discussed in more detail following the summary.

U.S. Federal
  Regulation

Board of Governors of the
  Federal Reserve System (FRB):Oversees and regulates financial
  institutions, including nonbank systemically important financial institutions
  (nonbank SIFIs). We are currently subject to the FRB’s examination,
  supervision and enforcement authority, and certain reporting requirements, as
  a nonbank SIFI.

Office of the Comptroller
  of the Currency (OCC):Charters, regulates and supervises all national
  banks and federal savings associations. The OCC supervises and regulates AIG
  Federal Savings Bank, our trust-only federal thrift subsidiary.

Securities and Exchange
  Commission (SEC):Oversees and regulates the U.S. securities and
  security-based swap markets, U.S. mutual funds, U.S. broker-dealers and U.S.
  investment advisors. Principal regulator of the mutual funds offered by our
  broker-dealer subsidiaries. The SEC is in the process of implementing rules
  and regulations governing reporting, clearing, execution and margin
  requirements for security-based swaps entered into within the U.S or by U.S. persons.
  Our security-basedswap activities are likely
  to be subject to certain of these rules and regulations.

Commodities Futures
  Trading Commission (CFTC):Oversees and regulates the U.S. swap,
  commodities and futures markets. The CFTC has begun implementing and is
  continuing to implement rules and regulations governing reporting, clearing,
  execution, margin and other requirements for swaps entered into within the
  U.S. or involving U.S. persons. Our swap activities are subject to certain of
  these rules and regulations.

Dodd-Frank
  Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank):Dodd-Frank
  has effected comprehensive changes to financial services regulation and
  subjects us, or may subject us, as applicable, to additional federal
  regulation, including:

•enhanced prudential standards for nonbank SIFIs (including minimum
  leverage and risk-based capital requirements, capital planning, stress tests,
  liquidity requirements, corporate governance requirements, contingent capital
  requirements, counterparty credit limits, an early remediation regime process
  and resolution planning);

•limitations on proprietary trading or covered fund activities, if the
  FRB decides to impose certain elements of Section 619 of Dodd-Frank (referred
  to as the “Volcker Rule”) on nonbank SIFIs;

•financial sector concentration limits; and

•increased regulation and restrictions on derivatives markets and
  transactions.

U.S. State
  Regulation

State Insurance Regulators:Our
  insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the
  states and other jurisdictions in which they do business. Regulation is
  generally derived from statutes that delegate supervisory and regulatory
  powers to a state insurance regulator, andprimarily relates to the
  insurer’s financial condition, corporate conduct and market conduct
  activities.NAIC Standards:The
  National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is a standard-setting
  and regulatory support organization created and governed by the chief
  insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five
  U.S. territories. The NAIC itself is not a regulator, but through the NAIC,
  state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct
  peer review and coordinate regulatory oversight.








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

Foreign Regulation

Financial Stability Board
  (FSB):Consists of representatives of national financial authorities of
  the G20 nations. The FSB itself is not a regulator, but is focused primarily
  on promoting international financial stability. It does so by coordinating
  the work of national financial authorities and international standard-setting
  bodies as well as developing and promoting the implementation of regulatory,
  supervisory and other financial policies.

International Association
  of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS):

European Union (EU):Financial
  companies that operate in the EU are subject to regulation by the national
  regulator of each member state in which that firm operates. Groups that are
  categorized as financial conglomerates are also subject to supplementary
  supervision. This seeks to enable supervisors to perform consolidated
  insurance group supervision at the level of the ultimate parent entity. The
  objective of supplementary supervision is to detect, monitor, manage and
  control group risks and ensure that capital is not accounted for twice or
  more within the conglomerate. The Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA), the
  United Kingdom’s prudential regulator, is AIG’s EU lead supervisor. The
  Financial Conduct Authority has oversight of AIG’s European operations for
  consumer protection and competition matters within the UK.  The EU has also
  established a set of regulatory requirements under the European Market
  Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) that include, among other things, risk
  mitigation, risk management, regulatory reporting and clearing requirements.








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

The
  European Parliament issues Directives which member states have to implement
  into legislation. Once implemented into country legislation, financial
  companies operating in Europe must adhere to these. Examples include:

1.The
  Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD), which updates the Insurance Mediation
  Directive, extending its scope to all sellers of insurance products,
  including direct selling to customers, any person involved in administrating
  policies and ancillary insurance intermediaries. The main provisions include
  remuneration disclosure, cross-selling limitations and professional training
  requirements. The IDD is expected to be finalized in February 2016 and
  require implementation by 2018.

2.The
  Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC) (Solvency II), which became effective on
  January 1, 2016, includes minimum capital and solvency requirements,
  governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards.

Regulation of Foreign
  Insurance Company Subsidiaries:Generally, our subsidiaries operating in
  foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements. Our foreign
  operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to
  currency, policy language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security
  deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held,
  amount and type of local investment and the share of profits to be returned
  to policyholders on participating policies. Some foreign countries also
  regulate rates on various types of policies.

Federal Reserve
Supervision





Due to the determination of the Financial Stability
Oversight Council (Council) that we should be regulated by the FRB as a nonbank
SIFI pursuant to Section 113 of Dodd-Frank, we have been since July 2013
subject to the FRB’s examination, supervision and enforcement authority, and
certain reporting requirements as a nonbank SIFI. Dodd-Frank requires that the
Council reevaluate its determination annually; however, the Council’s 2014 and
2015 annual reevaluations did not result in a change to our nonbank SIFI
status, and we remain regulated by the FRB.

Dodd-Frank has effected comprehensive changes to the
regulation of financial services in the United States and subjects us to
substantial additional federal regulation. Dodd-Frank directs existing and
newly created government agencies and oversight bodies to promulgate
regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process that is under way and is
anticipated to continue over the next few years.

As required by Dodd-Frank, the FRB has adopted enhanced
prudential standards (including minimum leverage and risk-based capital
requirements, requirements to submit annual capital plans to the FRB
demonstrating the ability to satisfy the required capital ratios under baseline
and stressed conditions, and stress-testing requirements

)

for
bank holding companies with $50 billion (and in some cases, $10 billion) or
more in total consolidated assets and certain foreign banking organizations

.








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

and
is not bound to impose capital standards and quantitative requirements
generally applicable to insured depository institutions and bank holding companies. 
We cannot predict with certainty, however, what capital rules the FRB may
impose on insurers designated as nonbank SIFIs.

As a nonbank SIFI, we anticipate we will be subject to:

•stress tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the
capital necessary to absorb losses due to adverse economic conditions;

•enhanced prudential standards, including new group-wide requirements
relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as
well as overall risk management requirements;

•management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan
for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of severe financial distress
(requirements that we are already subject to); and

•an early remediation regime process to be administered by the FRB.

Furthermore, if the Council were to make an additional
separate determination that AIG poses a “grave threat” to U.S. financial
stability, we would be required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more
than 15:1 and the FRB may impose additional restrictions.

As part of its general prudential supervisory powers, the FRB
has the authority to limit our ability to conduct activities that would
otherwise be permissible for us to engage in if we do not satisfy certain
requirements. In addition, if we were to seek to acquire a stake in certain
financial companies, Dodd-Frank would require us to obtain the prior
authorization of the FRB.

Other Effects
of Dodd-Frank



In addition, Dodd-Frank may also have the following effects
on us:

•As a nonbank SIFI, we are currently required to provide on an annual
basis (or more frequently, if required) to the FRB and FDIC a plan for our
rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or
failure, which must, among other things, provide a detailed resolution strategy
and analyses of our material entities, organizational structure,
interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems.  Our
original resolution plan was submitted to regulators on July 1, 2014, and our
second resolution plan on December 31, 2015. We continue to refine and update
our resolution plan, which is next required to be submitted to regulators on
December 31, 2016.  If the FRB and FDIC jointly determine, based on their
review of the plan, that it is not credible or would not facilitate our orderly
resolution under Title 11 of the United States Code (the Bankruptcy Code), they
may require us to re-submit an amended plan.  If the re-submitted plan also
fails to meet regulatory expectations, the FRB and FDIC may exercise their
authority under Dodd-Frank to impose more stringent capital, leverage, or
liquidity requirements, restrict our growth, activities, or operations, require
us to divest assets and operations, or otherwise increase their level of supervision
of us.

•The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other
regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or
practices that we and other insurers or other financial services companies
engage in.

•Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company whose largest
United States subsidiary is an insurer (such as us) may be subject to a special
resolution process outside the Bankruptcy Code. That process is to be
administered by the FDIC upon a determination of the Secretary of the Treasury
(the Secretary), in consultation with the President, and upon the written
recommendation of the director of the Federal Insurance Office and the FRB,
that, among other things, it is in default or in danger of default, that the
insurer is not likely to attract private sector alternatives to default, and is
not suitable for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code.

•Title VII of Dodd-Frank provides for significantly increased regulation
of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that could affect
various activities of AIG and its insurance and financial services
subsidiaries, including (i) regulatory reporting for swaps (which are regulated
by the CFTC) and security-based swaps (which are regulated by the SEC), (ii) mandated
clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated swap
execution facilities for certain swaps and security-based swaps and (iii)
margin and collateral requirements.  The CFTC has finalized many of its






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

requirements, including swap reporting, the mandatory
clearing of certain interest rate swaps and credit default swaps, margin
requirements for uncleared swaps, and the mandatory trading of certain swaps on
swap execution facilities. The SEC has proposed certain rules with respect to
certain of the regulations and restrictions noted above governing
security-based swaps but has yet to finalize the majority of rules comprising
its security-based swap regulatory regime. These regulations have affected and
may further affect various activities of AIG and its insurance and financial
services subsidiaries as further rules are finalized to implement additional
elements of the regulatory regime.

Similar regulations have been
proposed or adopted outside the United States.  For instance, the EU has also
established a set of new regulatory requirements for EU derivatives activities
under EMIR. These requirements include, among other things, various risk
mitigation, risk management and regulatory reporting requirements that have
already become effective and clearing requirements that were outlined in EU
delegated legislation at the end of 2015, and are phased in over three years.
These requirements could result in increased administrative costs with respect
to our EU derivatives activities and overlapping or inconsistent regulation
depending on the ultimate application of cross-border regulatory requirements
between and among U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions.

•Dodd-Frank mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts
should be included in the definition of "swap." If that study
concludes that stable value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain
federal regulators to determine whether an exemption from the definition of a
swap for stable value contracts is appropriate and in the public interest.
Certain of our affiliates participate in the stable value contract business. We
cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the aforementioned study or
be promulgated applicable to this business in the future.

•Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the
United States Department of the Treasury (Department of the Treasury) headed by
a director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a
general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the
director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance
(other than health insurance), including serving as a non-voting member of the
Council. On December 12, 2013, the FIO released a Dodd-Frank mandated study on
how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United
States. The report listed several actions that states could take to improve the
uniformity and efficiency of the current state based regulatory system and
highlighted certain areas in which Federal involvement is recommended. The FIO
recommended that the states undertake reforms regarding capital adequacy,
reform of insurer resolution practices, and marketplace regulation.  On
November 20, 2015, the Department of Treasury and the United States Trade
Representative announced their intention to negotiate an agreement between the
U.S. and the EU regarding prudential measures with respect to insurance and
reinsurance.

•Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
as an independent bureau within the FRB to regulate consumer financial products
and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB's general jurisdiction,
although the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has since
transferred authority to the CFPB to investigate mortgage insurance practices.
Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the CFPB's
jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity.

•Title XIV of Dodd-Frank also restricts certain terms for mortgage loans,
such as loan fees, prepayment fees and other charges, and imposes certain
duties on a lender to ensure that a borrower can afford to repay the loan.

Dodd-Frank imposes various assessments on financial
companies, including, as applicable to us, fees for our supervision by the FRB
and assessments to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial
company conducted under Title II (although the regulatory authority would have
to take account of the amounts paid by us into state guaranty funds).

We cannot predict whether these actions will become effective
or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business,
results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and credit ratings.
However, it is possible that such effect could be materially adverse. See Item
1A. Risk Factors — Regulation for additional information.

Other
Regulatory Developments



As described
below, AIG has been designated as a Global Systemically Important Insurer
(G-SII).






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

The IAIS is also developing ComFrame, a Common Framework
for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs), which
sets out qualitative and quantitative standards designed to assist supervisors
in collectively addressing an IAIG’s activities and risks, identifying and
avoiding regulatory gaps and coordinating supervisory activities.  In
connection with ComFrame, the IAIS is in the process of developing a risk-based
global ICS applicable to IAIGs.  As currently defined under ComFrame, AIG
meets the parameters set forth to define an IAIG.  ComFrame standards are
expected to be finalized in 2019, and the IAIS is conducting field testing of
ComFrame, including the ICS, ahead of that deadline.  It is expected that
implementation of ComFrame and the ICS would begin in 2020.

The standards discussed above, issued by the FSB and/or the
IAIS, are not binding on the United States or other jurisdictions around the
world unless and until the appropriate local governmental bodies or regulators
adopt appropriate laws and regulations.  At this time it is not known how
the IAIS’s frameworks and/or standards might be implemented in the United
States and other jurisdictions around the world, or how they might apply to AIG.

Legislation in the European
Union could also affect our international insurance operations. Solvency II,
which became effective on January 1, 2016, reforms the insurance industry’s
solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency requirements,
governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards. In
accordance with Solvency II, in the absence of decision by the European
Commission on whether a supervisory regime outside of the EU is equivalent,






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS



ERISA
Considerations

We provide products and services
to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) or the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code).  Plans subject to ERISA include
pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and
disability plans.  As a result, our activities are subject to the restrictions
imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under
ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of
ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a
covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions.  The prohibited
transaction rules of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code generally restrict the
provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and Individual
Retirement Account (IRA) holders if the investment recommendation results in
fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that
vary according to the investment recommendation chosen.   ERISA also provides
for civil and criminal penalties and enforcement.

The U.S. Department of Labor
(DOL) proposed a new regulation in April 2015 that would, if enacted,
substantially expand the definition of "investment advice," which
would substantially expand the range of activities considered to be fiduciary
investment advice under ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code.  In connection
with the proposed regulation, the DOL also proposed amendments to its
prohibited transaction exemption under ERISA that would, among other things,
apply more extensive disclosure and contract requirements, and increased
fiduciary requirements, for transactions involving ERISA plans, plan
participants and IRA holders.  On January 28, 2016, the DOL submitted its final
version of the proposed regulation to the Office of Management and Budget for
review.  The proposed regulation is subject to potential modification before
the final rule, if any, is issued. It is unknown at this time whether or how
any final regulation may be different from that proposed, and what the timing
for implementation of compliance requirements would be, if adopted.  For
additional information, see Item 7. MD&A — Executive Overview - Consumer
Insurance Strategic Initiatives and Outlook.

We expect that the regulations
applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the
foreseeable future.

Regulation of
Insurance Subsidiaries



Certain states and other jurisdictions require registration
and periodic reporting by insurance companies that are licensed in such
jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation
typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the
registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and
prior approval of intercompany services and transfers of assets, including in
some instances payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary, within the
holding company system. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation
in those jurisdictions that have such requirements.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

In the U.S., the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) formula is designed
to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the
risks inherent in its business. Virtually every state has adopted, in
substantial part, the RBC Model Law promulgated by the NAIC, which allows
states to act upon the results of RBC calculations, and provides for four
incremental levels of regulatory action regarding insurers whose RBC
calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those levels of action range from
the requirement to submit a plan describing how an insurer would regain a
specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The RBC
formula computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to
various asset, premium and reserve items. These factors are developed to be
risk-sensitive so that higher factors are applied to items exposed to greater
risk.  The statutory surplus of each of our U.S. based insurance companies
exceeded RBC minimum required levels as of December 31, 2015.

If any of our insurance entities fell below prescribed levels
of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital
or other types of support to that entity. For additional information, see Item
7. MD&A — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity and Capital Resources
of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries — Non-Life Insurance Companies and — Life
Insurance Companies.

The NAIC’s Model Regulation “Valuation of Life Insurance
Policies” (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to establish additional statutory
reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and
universal life policies with secondary guarantees (ULSGs). NAIC Actuarial
Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to
these guarantees, including certain ULSGs. See Item 1A – Risk Factors and Note 18
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for risks and additional information
related to these statutory reserving requirements. Additionally, the NAIC has
adopted a Principle-Based Reserving (PBR) approach for life insurance products,
which will become operational once adopted in 42 U.S. jurisdictions accounting
for at least 75 percent of U.S. insurance premiums combined.  Once it becomes
operational, PBR would replace Regulation XXX and Guidelines AXXX with respect
to new life insurance business issued.  Two of our domiciliary states (Missouri
and Texas) have adopted regulations necessary to implement PBR once the
required number of jurisdictions and insurance premiums threshold have been
satisfied.

The NAIC has undertaken the Solvency Modernization Initiative
(SMI) which focuses on a review of insurance solvency regulations throughout
the U.S. financial regulatory system and is expected to lead to a set of
long-term solvency modernization goals. SMI is broad in scope, but the NAIC has
stated that its focus will include the U.S. solvency framework, group solvency
issues, capital requirements, international accounting and regulatory
standards, reinsurance and corporate governance.

The NAIC has adopted revisions to the NAIC Insurance Holding
Company System Regulatory Act (the Model Holding Company Act) and the Insurance
Holding Company System Model Regulation.  The revised models include provisions
authorizing NAIC commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for
internationally active insurance groups, and the requirement that the ultimate
controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual enterprise risk report with
the lead state of the insurer identifying risks likely to have a material
adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its
insurance holding company system as a whole. To date, a majority of the states
where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the revised Model
Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting requirement.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

A substantial portion of our
business is conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and
supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, our subsidiaries operating
in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements, licenses
issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification
or revocation by such authorities, and therefore these subsidiaries could be
prevented from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they
currently operate.

In addition to licensing requirements, our foreign operations
are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy
language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount
and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of
local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on
participating policies. Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types
of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions,
wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers
are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always
allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full compensation. In some
countries, regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and
remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of
assets.

See Item 7. MD&A — Liquidity and Capital Resources —
Regulation and Supervision and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION ABOUT AIG



Our corporate website iswww.aig.com.We make available free
of charge, through the Investor Information section of our corporate website,
the following reports (and related amendments as filed with the SEC) as soon as
reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the SEC:

•Annual Reports on Form 10-K

•Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q

•Current Reports on Form 8-K

•Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings with
the SEC

Also available on our corporate website:

•Charters for Board Committees:Audit, Nominating and Corporate
Governance, Compensation and Management Resources, Risk and Capital,
Regulatory, Compliance and Public Policy, and Technology Committees

•Corporate Governance Guidelines(which include Director
Independence Standards)

•Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics (we will post on our website any amendment or
waiver to this Code within the time period required by the SEC)

•Employee Code of Conduct

•Related‑Party Transactions Approval Policy

Except for the documents
specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Reference to our website is made as an inactive textual
reference.








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1A /risk factors

