Item 1/ Business

American International
  Group, Inc. (AIG)is a
  leading global insurance organization. Founded in 1919, today we provide a
  wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement
  products, mortgage insurance and other financial services to customers in
  more than 100 countries and jurisdictions. Our diverse offerings include
  products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their
  assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is
  listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.AIG’s key strengths include:World class insurance franchisesthat are leaders in their categories and are continuing to improve
  their operating performance;A diverse mix of businesseswith a presence in most international markets;Effective capital managementof the largest shareholders’ equity of any insurance
  company in the world*, supported by enhanced risk management;Execution of strategic objectives,such as our focus on growth of higher value lines of business
  to increase profitability and grow assets under management;Breadth of customers,serving over 89 percent of companies included in the Fortune
  Global 500; andImproved profitability,as demonstrated by growth in 2014 over 2013 of pre-tax
  operating income in our core insurance operations.*   At June 30, 2014, the latest date for which information was
available for certain foreign insurance companies.3





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless
otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms
“AIG,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to American International Group,
Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the
term “AIG Parent” to refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and
not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.

AIG’s Global Insurance Operations

business
  management



On September 1, 2014, in accordance with AIG’s previously
  disclosed succession plan, Peter D. Hancock assumed the role of President and
  Chief Executive Officer of AIG and joined AIG’s Board of Directors.  He
  succeeded Robert H. Benmosche, who retired and currently serves as an advisor
  to AIG.

With this transition, Mr. Hancock has announced a new
  leadership team and structure aimed at integrating the Company and
  positioning us to deliver the full capabilities of AIG to our approximately
  90 million clients around the world as One AIG. We believe that by striving
  to provide the greatest value to our customers, we can deliver improved
  operating and financial performance and sustainable, profitable growth.  Our
  strategy is focused on enhancing the value and competitive position of our
  insurance businesses and investing our capital where we can achieve
  attractive risk-adjusted returns, while maintaining strong levels of
  liquidity and capital.

In the fourth quarter of 2014, we
  modified the presentation of our results to reflect our new operating
  structure. The new operating structure includes two reportable segments,
  Commercial Insurance and Consumer Insurance, and a Corporate and Other
  category. Commercial Insurance has three operating segments: Property
  Casualty, Mortgage Guaranty and Institutional Markets. Consumer Insurance
  also has three operating segments: Retirement, Life and Personal Insurance.
  The Corporate and Other category consists of businesses and items not
  allocated to our reportable segments. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2014,
  AIG reported its results through two reportable segments – AIG Property
  Casualty and AIG Life and Retirement.

Certain of our management activities, such as investment
  management, enterprise risk management, liquidity management and capital
  management, and our balance sheet reporting, are conducted on a legal entity
  basis. We group our insurance-related legal entities into two categories:
  Non-Life Insurance Companies and Life Insurance Companies.

Non-Life Insurance Companies include the following major
  property casualty and mortgage guaranty companies: National Union Fire
  Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa.(National Union); American Home Assurance
  Company (American Home); Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington); Fuji Fire
  and Marine Insurance Company Limited (Fuji Fire); American Home Assurance
  Company, Ltd. (American Home Japan);  AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd.; 
  AIG Europe Limited and United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company (UGRIC).

Life Insurance Companies include the following major
  operating companies: American General Life Insurance Company (American
  General Life); The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC); The
  United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (U.S. Life) and
  AIG Fuji Life Insurance Company Limited (Fuji Life).








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG(a) Consists of Commercial Insurance and
Consumer Insurance pre-tax operating income. Pre-tax operating income and book
value per share excluding AOCI are non-GAAP measures. See “Use of Non-GAAP
Measures” for additional information.(b) Total
consideration of approximately $7.6 billion, includes net cash proceeds of $2.4
billion and 97.6 million newly issued AerCap common shares. Based in part on
AerCap's closing price per share of $47.01 on May 13, 2014, the date the sale
of ILFC to AerCap was completed.5





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG

How we
Generate Revenues and Profitability



We earn
revenuesprimarily from insurance
premiums, policy fees from universal life insurance and investment products, and
income from investments and advisory fees.

Our
operating expensesconsist of
policyholder benefits and losses incurred, interest credited to policyholders,
commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our products, and general
business expenses.

Our
profitabilityis dependent on
our ability to properly price and manage risk on insurance and annuity
products, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively, and to control
costs through expense discipline.

INVESTMENT
ACTIVITIES OF Our Insurance OPERATIONS

Our Non Life Insurance Companies and Life Insurance
  Companies generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying
  covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these
  premiums and deposits to generate net investment income that, along with the
  invested funds, is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we
  generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities.We generate
  significant revenues in our insurance operations from investment activities.Our worldwide
  insurance investment policy places primary emphasis on investments in
  corporate bonds, municipal bonds and government bonds in all of our
  portfolios, and, to a lesser extent, investments in high yield bonds, common
  stock, real estate, hedge funds and other alternative investments.

The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities
consist of intermediate and long duration fixed maturity securities.

Non-Life Insurance Companies—Fixed maturity securities held by the insurance
companies included in the Non-Life Insurance Companies’ domestic operations
have historically consisted primarily of corporate bonds, municipal bonds and
government bonds. These investments provided attractive returns and limited
credit risk. To meet our domestic operations’ current risk return and business
objectives, our domestic Non-Life Insurance Companies have been shifting
investment allocations to a broader array of investments, including structured
securities, mortgage loans, equity related opportunities and other investments
that offer attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our fixed maturity securities must
meet our liquidity, duration and quality objectives as well as current capital,
risk return and business objectives. Fixed maturity securities held by the
Non-Life Insurance Companies’ international operations consist primarily of
intermediate duration high-grade securities, primarily in the markets being
served. In addition, the Non-Life Insurance Companies have redeployed cash in
excess of operating needs into investments consistent with the asset classes
described above.

Life Insurance Companies—The investment strategy for the portfolios of the
Life Insurance Companies is largely to match the duration of our liabilities
with assets of comparable duration, to the extent practicable. The Life
Insurance Companies primarily invest in a diversified portfolio of fixed
maturity securities, which include corporate bonds and structured securities.
To further diversify the portfolio, investments are made in alternative
investments, including private equity funds, hedge funds and affordable housing
partnerships. Although these alternative investments are subject to periodic
earnings fluctuations, they have achieved total returns in excess of the Life
Insurance Companies’ fixed maturity security returns for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2014.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG

Commercial
  InsuranceConsumer Insurance

Commercial Insuranceis a leading
  provider of insurance products and services for commercial and institutional
  customers. It includes one of the world’s most far-reaching property casualty
  networks, a leading mortgage guaranty insurer and an institutional retirement
  and savings business. Commercial Insurance offers a broad range of products
  to customers through a diversified, multichannel distribution network.
  Customers value Commercial Insurance’s strong capital position, extensive
  risk management and claims experience, and its ability to be a market leader
  in critical lines of insurance business.Consumer Insuranceis a unique franchise that brings together a broad portfolio of
  retirement, life insurance and property casualty products offered through
  multiple distribution networks.  It holds long-standing, leading market
  positions in many of its U.S. product lines, and its global footprint
  provides the opportunity to pursue international growth opportunities
  selectively in countries with attractive markets.  With its strong capital
  position, customer-focused service, innovative product development
  capabilities and strong distribution relationships across multiple channels,
  Consumer Insurance is well positioned to provide clients with the products
  they need delivered through the channels they prefer.

Corporate and Other

Corporate and Other includes Direct Investment book,
  Global Capital Markets, and AIG Parent and Other as well ascertainrun-off insurance businesses.








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIG

Global FootprintOur Non-Life Insurance Companies net premiums written
  (NPW) of $34.5 billion in 2014 reflected our expansive global footprint.
  Based on NPW in 2013, we are the largest commercial insurer in the U.S., the
  largest U.S. based property casualty insurer in Europe, and the largest
  foreign property casualty insurer in China.  In addition, AIG was first to
  market in many emerging markets and is well positioned to enhance its
  businesses in countries such as Brazil, China through strategic relationships
  with People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China Limited (PICC Group), and
  India with the Tata Group.Our Life Insurance Companies premiums and deposits
  (P&D) of $32.6 billion in 2014 demonstrate a substantial presence in the
  U.S. and a meaningful share of the Japan market. P&D is a non-GAAP
  financial measure that includes direct and assumed amounts received on
  traditional life insurance policies, group benefit policies and deposits on
  life‑contingent payout annuities, as well as deposits received on
  universal life, investment‑type annuity contracts and mutual funds. See
  Item 7. MD&A — Results of Operations  for
  Institutional Markets, Retirement and  Life for a reconciliation of P&D to
  premiums.



We have a significant international presence in both
developed markets and growth economy nations, specifically in Asia Pacific,
Central Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. We distribute our
products through three major geographic regions:

•Americas:Includes the United States, Canada, Latin America, the Caribbean and Bermuda.

•Asia Pacific:Includes Japan, China, Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand,  Australia,
Indonesia and other Asia Pacific nations.

•EMEA (Europe,
Middle East and Africa):Includes the United Kingdom, Continental Europe,
the Russian Federation, India, the Middle East and Africa.

In 2014, 6.3 percent of our property casualty direct premiums
were written in the state of California and 15.7 percent and 7.5 percent were
written in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign
jurisdiction accounted for more than five percent of such premiums.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / AIGDiversified Mix of Businesses*(dollars
in millions)*    Represents
revenues from insurance operations.Revenues
for Property Casualty, Mortgage Guaranty, and Personal Insurance include net
premiums earned and net investment income.  Revenues for Institutional Markets,
Retirement and Life include premiums, policy fees, net investment income and
advisory fees.9





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / commercial insuranceCommercial InsuranceBusiness StrategyCustomer:Strive to be our customers’ most valued insurer by
  offering innovative products, superior service and access to an extensive
  global network.Strategic Growth:Grow our higher-value businesses while
  investing in transformative opportunities.Underwriting Excellence:Improve our business portfolio through better pricing
  and risk selection by using enhanced data, analytics and the application of
  science to deliver superior risk-adjusted returns.Claims Excellence:Improve claims processes, analytics and tools to
  deliver superior customer service and decrease our loss ratio.Operational Effectiveness:Continue initiatives to modernize our technology and
  infrastructure; implement best practices to improve speed and quality of
  service.Capital Efficiency:Increase capital fungibility and diversification,
  streamline our legal entity structure, optimize reinsurance and improve tax
  efficiency.Investment Strategy:Increase asset diversification and take advantage of yield‑enhancement
  opportunities to meet our capital, liquidity, risk and return objectives.10





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / commercial insurance

Commercial Insurance
Operating Segments

Commercial Insurance’s
operating segments consist ofProperty Casualty, Mortgage Guaranty and
Institutional Markets.

Property Casualty Product LinesCasualty:Products include general liability, commercial
  automobile liability, workers’ compensation, excess casualty and crisis
  management insurance products. Casualty also includes risk management and
  other customized structured programs for large corporate and multinational
  customers.Property:Products include commercial, industrial and
  energy-related property insurance products and services that cover exposures
  to man-made and natural disasters, including business interruption.Specialty:Products include aerospace, environmental, political
  risk, trade credit, surety and marine insurance products, and various small
  and medium sized enterprises insurance lines.Financial:Products include professional liability insurance for a
  range of businesses and risks, including directors and officers liability
  (D&O), fidelity, employment practices, fiduciary liability, cybersecurity
  risk, kidnap and ransom, and errors and omissions insurance (E&O).Mortgage Guaranty Product LinesMortgage
  Guaranty:Mortgage insurance (MI)
  protects mortgage investors against the increased risk of borrower default
  related to high loan-to-value (LTV) mortgages.Institutional Markets Product LinesInstitutional Markets:Products
  primarily include stable value wrap products, structured settlement and
  terminal funding annuities, high net worth products, corporate- and
  bank-owned life insurance and GICs.



A Look atCommercial
Insurance

Property Casualty conducts its business primarily through
our Non-Life Insurance Companies, which include National Union; American Home;
Lexington; Fuji Fire; American Home Japan; AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte,
Ltd. and AIG Europe Limited.

Mortgage Guaranty conducts its business primarily through
UGRIC.

Institutional Markets conducts its business primarily
through our Life Insurance Companies, which include American General Life,
VALIC and U.S. Life.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / commercial insurance

Commercial Insurance Distribution Network



Property
Casualty

Property
  Casualty products are primarily distributed through a network of independent
  retail and wholesale brokers, and through an independent agency network.

Mortgage
Guaranty

Mortgage
  Guaranty products and services are distributed to a comprehensive range of
  mortgage originators including national mortgage, community and money center
  banks, as well as through builder-owned, regional mortgage and
  internet-sourced lender and credit unions.

Institutional
Markets

Institutional
  Markets products are primarily distributed through specialized marketing and
  consulting firms and structured settlement brokers.

Commercial Insurance Competition

Operating in a highly competitive industry, Property
Casualty competes against several hundred stock companies, specialty insurance
organizations, mutual companies and other underwriting organizations in the
U.S. In international markets, Property Casualty competes for business with the
foreign insurance operations of large global insurance groups and local
companies in specific market areas and product types. Mortgage Guaranty
competes with several private providers of mortgage insurance, both
well-established and new entrants to the industry, and the Federal Housing
Administration, which is the largest provider of mortgage insurance in the
United States. Institutional Markets competes with large domestic (both stock
and mutual) life companies, as well as international life companies.

Insurance companies compete through a combination of risk
acceptance criteria, product pricing, service and terms and conditions.
Commercial Insurance distinguishes itself in the insurance industry primarily
based on its well-established brand, global franchise, financial and capital
strength, innovative products, expertise in providing specialized coverages and
customer service.

We serve our business and
individual customers on a global basis — from the largest multinational
corporations to local businesses and individuals. Our clients benefit from our
substantial underwriting expertise and long-term commitment to the markets we
serve.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / commercial insuranceCommercial
  Insurance Competitive Strengths and ChallengesOur competitive strengths
  include:Financial strengthand
  market leadership– a well capitalized, strong balance sheet highly valued
  by customers that allows us to be a market leader in certain lines of
  businessUnderwriting and claims
  expertise– a recognized, talented and deeply experienced teamGlobal franchise– one
  of the largest operating footprints in the industry and deep history in
  developed and emerging marketsScale– size and scope
  of business facilitates risk diversification to optimize returns on capitalDiversification–
  breadth of customers served, products underwritten and distribution channelsInnovation–  a culture
  of innovation driven by risk management expertise and a focus on customer
  needsService– a culture of
  striving to be our customers’ most valued insurerInformation and science capabilities– knowledge and information to improve a customer’s experienceOur challenges include:Over capacityin
  certain lines of business can lead to downward pressure on market pricingTort environmentvolatility in certain jurisdictions and lines of businessRegulatory requirementsincreasing
  in volume and complexity due to heightened regulatory scrutiny and
  supervision of the insurance and financial services industries in recent
  yearsVolatilityin the U.S.
  housing and mortgage marketsand from natural and man-made
  catastrophes13





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insurance

Consumer Insurance

Business Strategy

Customer:Strive to be our customers’ most valued insurer.
  Through our unique franchise, which brings together a broad portfolio of
  retirement, life insurance and personal insurance products offered through
  multiple distribution networks, Consumer Insurance aims to provide customers
  with the products they need, delivered through the channels they prefer.

Information-Driven Strategy:Utilize customer insight, analytics and the application of
  science to optimize customer acquisition, product profitability, product mix,
  channel performance and risk management capabilities.

Focused Growth:Invest
  in areas where Consumer Insurance can grow profitably and sustainably. Target
  growth in select markets according to market size, growth potential, market
  maturity and customer demographics.

Operational Effectiveness:Simplify processes, enhance operating environments, and
  leverage the best platforms and tools for multiple operating segments to
  increase competitiveness, improve service and product capabilities and
  facilitate delivery of our target customer experience.

Investment Strategy:Maintain a diversified, high quality portfolio of fixed
  maturity securities that largely matches the duration characteristics of
  related insurance liabilities with assets of comparable duration, and pursue
  yield-enhancement opportunities that meet liquidity, risk and return
  objectives.

Profitability and Capital Management:Deliver solid earnings through disciplined pricing, sustainable underwriting improvements
  and diversification of risk, and increase capital efficiency within insurance
  entities to enhance return on equity.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insurance

Consumer Insurance Operating Segments

Consumer Insurance’s operating segments consist ofRetirement,
Life,andPersonal Insurance.



Retirement Product Lines

Fixed Annuities:
  Products include single and
  flexible premium fixed annuities and single premium immediate and deferred
  income annuities. The Fixed Annuities product line maintains its
  industry-leading position in the U.S. bank distribution channel by designing
  products collaboratively with banks and offering an efficient and flexible
  administration platform.Retirement Income
  Solutions:Primary products include variable and fixed index
  annuities that provide both asset accumulation and lifetime income benefits,
  as well as investment-focused variable annuities.  Variable annuities are
  distributed through banks, wirehouses, and regional and independent broker‑dealers.
  Fixed index annuities are distributed through banks, broker dealers,
  independent marketing organizations and career and independent insurance agents.Group Retirement:Products
  are marketed under the VALIC brand and include fixed and variable annuities,
  mutual funds, and plan administrative and compliance services. VALIC career
  financial advisors and independent financial advisors provide retirement plan
  participants with enrollment support and comprehensive financial planning services.Retail Mutual FundsandAdvisor Group:Includes our mutual fund and related administration and servicing operations
  as well as one of the largest networks of independent financial advisors in
  the U.S.  Brands include Royal Alliance, SagePoint Financial, FSC Securities
  and Woodbury Financial.

Life Product Lines

Primary products in the U.S. include term life and
  universal life insurance. International products include term and whole life
  insurance, supplemental health, cancer and critical illness insurance. Life
  products are primarily distributed through independent marketing
  organizations, independent insurance agents, career agents and financial
  advisors and direct marketing. The Life operating segment also offers group
  products distributed through employers (both employer-paid and voluntary) and
  sponsored organizations, with the key products being basic and supplemental
  term life, universal life and disability insurance.

Personal Insurance Product Lines

Accident
  and Health: Products include voluntary and sponsor-paid personal accident and
  supplemental health products for individuals, employees, associations and
  other organizations.  It also includes a broad range of travel insurance
  products and services for leisure and business travelers. Accident and Health
  products are distributed through various channels, including agents, brokers,
  affinity partners, airlines and travel agents.Personal
  Lines: Products include automobile and
  homeowners insurance, extended warranty, and consumer specialty products,
  such as identity theft and credit card protection. Products are distributed
  through various channels, including agents, brokers and direct marketing.
  Personal Insurance also provides insurance for high-net-worth individuals
  offered through AIG Private Client Group, including auto, homeowners,
  umbrella, yacht, fine art and collections insurance.








TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insurance

A Look atConsumer Insurance

The Retirement and Life operating segments conduct their
business primarily through our Life Insurance Companies, which include American
General Life, VALIC, U.S. Life, and Fuji Life.

The Personal Insurance operating segment conducts its
business primarily through our Non-Life Insurance Companies, which include Fuji
Fire, AIU Insurance Company, Ltd., American Home, National Union, Lexington, American
Home Japan, AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd. and AIG Europe Limited.

Consumer Insurance Distribution
Network



Retirement

Retirement products are
  distributed through affiliated channels that include over 1,200 VALIC career
  financial advisors and over 5,700 licensed financial advisors in the AIG
  Advisor Group and through non-affiliated channels, which include banks,
  wirehouses, regional and independent broker-dealers, independent marketing
  organizations and independent insurance agents.

Life

Life products are
  distributed in the U.S. through affiliated channels that include over 1,700
  career agents and financial advisors in the AIG Financial Network and direct
  marketing.  Non-affiliated channels in the U.S. include independent marketing
  organizations, independent agents and benefit brokers.  International life
  products are sold through non-affiliated independent agents and direct
  marketing.

Personal Insurance

Personal Insurance
  products and services are distributed through various channels, including
  independent agents, career agents, brokers, affinity partners, airlines and
  travel agents, as well as direct marketing.



Consumer
Insurance Competition

Consumer Insurance operates in the highly competitive
insurance and financial services industry in the U.S. and select international
markets and competes against various financial services companies, including
mutual funds, banks and other life and property casualty insurance companies. 
Competition is primarily based on product pricing and design, distribution,
financial strength, customer service and ease of doing business.

Consumer Insurance competes based on its long‑standing
market leading positions, innovative products, strong distribution
relationships across multiple channels, customer-focused service and strong
financial ratings.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insurance

Consumer
  Insurance Competitive Strengths and Challenges

Our competitive strengths include:

Unique franchise– broad portfolio of retirement, life insurance and personal insurance
  products offered through multiple distribution networks

Market leader–
  long-standing, leading positions in many of our product lines and key
  distribution channels

Global footprint– ability to selectively pursue international growth opportunities in
  countries with attractive markets

Strong
  distribution relationships across multiple channels– opportunity to
  expand on distribution relationships to effectively market diverse product
  offerings

Information and
  science capabilities– used tobuild decision
  tools, transformprocesses and optimize performance

Customer-focused
  service– investments in technology and operating platforms provide the foundation
  to deliver our target customer experience

Risk
  diversification and scale– breadth of product offerings and scale
  advantage in keyproduct lines

Capital strength–
  capacity to drive growth in attractive markets and product lines

Our challenges include:

Highly competitive environmentwhere
  products are differentiated by pricing, terms, customer service and ease of
  doing business and barriers to entry are significant in certain markets

Regulatory requirementsin recent
  years have created an increasingly complex environment that is affecting
  industry growth and profitability

Low interest rateenvironment makes
  it more difficult to competitively price guaranteed return products and puts
  margin pressure on existing products due to the challenge of investing in a
  low rate environment



Corporate and Otherincludes:

Direct Investment book(DIB)consists of a portfolio of assets and
liabilities held directly by AIG Parent in the Matched Investment Program (MIP)
and certainnon-derivative assets
and liabilities ofAIG Financial Products Corp. and related subsidiaries (collectivelyAIGFP).The DIB portfolio
is being wound down and is managed with the objective of ensuring that at all
times it maintains the liquidity we believe is necessary to meet all of its
liabilities as they come due, even under stress scenarios, and to maximize
returns consistent with our risk managementobjectives.

Global Capital Markets (GCM)consists of the operations ofAIG Markets, Inc.(AIG Markets) and the remaining derivatives
portfolio of AIGFP. AIG Markets acts as the derivatives intermediary between
our subsidiaries and third parties to provide hedging services. The AIGFP
portfolio continues to be wound down and is managed consistently with our risk
management objectives.Although the portfolio
may experience periodic fair value volatility, it consists predominantly of
transactions that we believe are of low complexity, low risk or currently not
economically appropriate to unwind based on a cost versus benefit analysis.

AIG Parent and Otherconsists primarily of interest expense, consolidation and
eliminations, expenses of corporate staff not attributable to specific
reportable segments, certain expenses related to internal controls and the
financial and operating






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS / consumer insurance

platforms, corporate initiatives,
certain compensation plan expenses, corporate level net realized capital gains
and losses, certain litigation‑related charges and credits, net gain
(loss) on sale of divested businesses that did not meet the criteria for
discontinued operations accounting treatment, and equity in the earnings of
AerCap.

Run-off Insurance Businessconsists primarily of run-off lines of
business, including excess workers’ compensation, asbestos and legacy
environmental (1986 and prior); certain environmental liability businesses
written prior to 2004and certain
long-duration business, primarily in Japan and the U.S.

Other Businessesinclude investments in life settlements, real estate
investment operations, institutional asset management operations, equipment
financing operations and our remaining consumer finance business.

Aircraft Leasingconsists of ILFC.On May 14, 2014, we completed the sale of 100 percent
of the common stock of ILFC to AerCap Ireland Limited, a wholly owned
subsidiary of AerCap, in exchange for total consideration of approximately
$7.6 billion, including cash and 97.6 million newly issued AerCap common
shares (the AerCap Transaction).As a result of the
AerCap Transaction, we own approximately 46 percent of the outstanding common
stock of AerCap. We account for our interest in AerCap using the equity method
of accounting.  See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information on the AerCap Transaction.

Retained Interestsincludes fair value gains and losses on (i) AIA
ordinary shares retained following the AIA initial public offering  prior to
their sale in 2012 and (ii) Maiden Lane III LLC (ML III) assets prior to
their liquidation in 2012.

OUR EMPLOYEES



At
December 31, 2014, we had approximately 65,000 employees. We believe that
our relations with our employees are satisfactory.












TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

A Review of Liability for
Unpaid LOSSES and loss Adjustment Expenses



The liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
(also referred to as loss reserves) represents the accumulation of estimates
for unpaid reported losses (case reserves) and losses that have been incurred
but not reported (IBNR) for the Non-Life Insurance Companies.

We recognize as assets the portion of this liability that is
expected to be recovered from reinsurers. Loss reserves are discounted, where
permitted, in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

The Loss Reserve Development
Process

The process of establishing the liability for unpaid losses
and loss adjustment expenses is complex and imprecise because it must take into
consideration many variables that are subject to the outcome of future events.
As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate
exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process.

We use a number of techniques to analyze the adequacy of the
  established net liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (net
  loss reserves). Using these analytical techniques, we monitor the adequacy of
  our established reserves and determine appropriate assumptions for inflation
  and other factors influencing loss costs. Our analyses also take into account
  emerging specific development patterns, such as case reserve redundancies or
  deficiencies and IBNR emergence. We also consider specific factors that may
  impact losses, such as changing trends in medical costs, unemployment levels
  and other economic indicators, as well as changes in legislation and social
  attitudes that may affect decisions to file claims or the magnitude of court
  awards. See Item 7. MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates for a
  description of our loss reserving process.Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of
  future events, changes in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the
  insurance industry. These changes in estimates are sometimes referred to as “prior
  year loss development” or “reserve development.”

A significant portion of the Non-Life Insurance Companies’
reserves are for the U.S. commercial casualty class, including excess casualty,
asbestos and environmental, which tends to involve longer periods of time for
the reporting and settlement of claims than other types of insurance and
therefore may increase the inherent risk and uncertainty with respect to our loss
reserve development.

Analysis of Consolidated Loss
Reserve Development

The “Analysis of Consolidated Loss Reserve Development” table
presents the development of prior year net loss reserves for calendar years
2004 through 2014 for each balance sheet in that period. The information in the
table is presented in accordance with reporting requirements of the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC). This table should be interpreted with care by
those not familiar with its format or those who are familiar with other loss
development analyses arranged in an accident year or underwriting year basis
rather than the balance sheet, as shown below. See Note 13 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

The top row of the table showsNet Reserves Held(the
net liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses) at each balance
sheet date, net of discount.This liability represents the estimated amount
of losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims arising in all years prior to
the balance sheet date that were unpaid as of that balance sheet date,
including estimates for IBNR claims. The amount of loss reserve discount
included in the net reserves at each date is shown immediately below the net
reserves held. The undiscounted reserve at each date is equal to the sum of the
discount and the net reserves held. For example,Net Reserves Held
(Undiscounted)was $48.8 billion at December 31, 2004.

The next section of the table shows the originalNet
Undiscounted Reserves re-estimatedover 10 years. This re-estimation takes
into consideration a number of factors, including changes in the estimated
frequency of reported claims, effects of






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

significant
judgments, the emergence of latent exposures, and changes in medical cost
trends.For example, the original undiscounted reserve of
$48.8 billion at December 31, 2004, was re-estimated to $66.2 billion
at December 31, 2014. The amount of the development related to losses
settled or re-estimated in 2014, but incurred in 2011, is included in the
cumulative development amount for years 2011, 2012 and 2013. Any increase or
decrease in the estimate is reflected in operating results in the period in
which the estimate is changed.

The middle of the table showsNet Deficiency.This
is the aggregate change in estimates over the period of years covered by the
table.For example, the net loss reserve deficiency of $17.4 billion
for 2004 is the difference between the original undiscounted reserve of
$48.8 billion at December 31, 2004 and the $66.2 billion of
re-estimated reserves at December 31, 2014. The net deficiency amounts are
cumulative; in other words, the amount shown in the 2013 column includes the
amount shown in the 2012 column, and so on. Conditions and trends that have affected
development of the liability in the past may not necessarily occur in the
future. Accordingly, it generally is not appropriate to extrapolate future
development based on this table.

The bottom portion of the table shows thePaid
(Cumulative)amounts during successive years related to the undiscounted
loss reserves.For example, as of December 31, 2014, AIG had paid a total
of $55.4 billion of the $66.2 billion in re-estimated reserves for
2004, resulting in Remaining Reserves (Undiscounted) of $10.8 billion for
2004. Also included in this section are theRemaining Reserves
(Undiscounted)and theRemaining Discountfor each year.

As discussed
in footnotes (a) and (b) below, the calendar year distribution of these Paid
(Cumulative) amounts are estimates that are affected by certain transactions.
These payment amounts may differ from the actual losses paid for a given
accident year.

The following table presents loss reserves and the
related loss development for 2004 through 2014 and consolidated gross liability
(before discount), reinsurance recoverable and net liability recorded for each
calendar year, and the re‑estimation of these amounts as of
December 31, 2014.(a)

(in millions)20042005200620072008200920102011201220132014

Net Reserves Held(b)$47,253$57,476$62,630$69,288$72,455$67,899$71,507$70,825$68,782$64,316$61,612

Discount (in Reserves Held)1,5532,1102,2642,4292,5742,6553,2173,1833,2463,5553,077

Net Reserves Held (Undiscounted)48,80659,58664,89471,71775,02970,55474,72474,00872,02867,871$64,689



Net undiscounted Reserve

re-estimated as of:

One year later53,48659,53364,23871,83677,80074,73674,91974,42972,58568,574

Two years later55,00960,12664,76474,31882,04374,52975,50275,16773,571

Three years later56,04761,24267,30378,27581,71975,18776,02376,212

Four years later57,61863,87270,73378,24582,42276,05877,031

Five years later60,23167,10270,87679,09883,13577,054

Six years later63,34867,51871,57279,81384,100

Seven years later63,92868,23372,28680,770

Eight years later64,53269,02373,356

Nine years later65,26170,029

Ten years later66,162



Net Deficiency on net reserves held(17,356)(10,443)(8,462)(9,053)(9,071)(6,500)(2,307)(2,204)(1,543)(703)

Net Deficiency related to asbestos

and environmental (A&E)(3,157)(2,228)(2,019)(2,000)(1,951)(1,799)(297)(268)(192)(124)

Net Deficiency excluding A&E(14,199)(8,215)(6,443)(7,053)(7,120)(4,701)(2,010)(1,936)(1,351)(579)



Paid (Cumulative) as of:

One year later14,91015,32614,86216,53124,26715,91917,66119,23518,75817,745

Two years later24,37725,15224,38831,79136,16428,42830,62031,76631,265

Three years later31,29632,29534,64740,40146,85638,18340,09141,464

Four years later36,80440,38040,44748,52053,61645,38247,379

Five years later43,16244,47346,47453,59358,51351,104

Six years later46,33049,55250,39157,68662,734

Seven years later50,46252,24353,54561,221

Eight years later52,21454,33256,424

Nine years later53,69356,516

Ten years later55,375






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS



Remaining Reserves (Undiscounted)10,78713,51316,93219,54921,36625,95029,65234,74842,30650,829Remaining Discount1,3421,4741,6321,7971,9782,1432,3092,5162,7012,888Remaining Reserves$9,445$12,039$15,300$17,752$19,388$23,807$27,343$32,232$39,605$47,941Net Liability, End of Year$48,806$59,586$64,894$71,717$75,030$70,554$74,724$74,008$72,028$67,871$64,689Reinsurance Recoverable, End of Year14,62419,69317,36916,21216,80317,48719,64420,32019,20917,23115,648Gross Liability, End of Year63,43079,27982,26387,92991,83388,04194,36894,32891,23785,102$80,337Re-estimated Net Liability66,16270,02973,35680,77084,10077,05477,03176,21273,57168,574Re-estimated Reinsurance Recoverable21,76524,54820,81919,31718,79318,63416,70918,45619,06517,221Re-estimated Gross Liability87,92794,57794,175100,087102,89395,68893,74094,66892,63685,795Cumulative GrossRedundancy (Deficiency)$(24,497)$(15,298)$(11,912)$(12,158)$(11,060)$(7,647)$628$(340)$(1,399)$(693)

(a) During
2009, we deconsolidated Transatlantic Holdings, Inc. and sold 21st Century
Insurance Group and HSB Group, Inc. The sales and deconsolidation are reflected
in the table above as a reduction in December 31, 2009 net reserves of $9.7
billion and as an $8.6 billion increase in paid losses for the years 2000
through 2008 to remove the reserves for these divested entities from the ending
balance.

(b) The
increase in Net Reserves Held from 2009 to 2010 is partially due to the $1.7
billion in Net Reserves Held by Fuji Fire, which was acquired in 2010.  The
decrease in 2011 is due to the cession of asbestos reserves described in Item
7. MD&A — Insurance Reserves – Non-Life Insurance Companies— Asbestos
and Environmental Reserves.

The Liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses
as reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2014 differs from
the total reserves reported in the annual statements filed with state insurance
departments and, when applicable, with foreign regulatory authorities primarily
for the following reasons:

•Reserves for certain foreign operations are not required or permitted to
be reported in the United States for statutory reporting purposes, including
contingency reserves for catastrophic events;

•Statutory practices in the United States require reserves to be shown
net of applicable reinsurance recoverable; and

•Unlike statutory financial statements, our consolidated liability for
unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses excludes the effect of intercompany
transactions.

Gross loss reserves are calculated without reduction for
reinsurance recoverable and represent the accumulation of estimates for
reported losses and IBNR, net of estimated salvage and subrogation. We review
the adequacy of established gross loss reserves in the manner previously
described for net loss reserves. A reconciliation of activity in the Liability
for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses is included in Note 13 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

For further discussion of asbestos and environmental
reserves, see Item 7. MD&A — Insurance Reserves – Non-Life Insurance
Companies— Asbestos and Environmental Reserves.

Reinsurance
Activities



Reinsurance is used primarily to manage overall capital
adequacy and mitigate the insurance loss exposure related to certain events
such as natural and man-made catastrophes.

Our subsidiaries operate worldwide primarily by underwriting
and accepting risks for their direct account on a gross basis and reinsuring a
portion of the exposure on either an individual risk or an aggregate basis to
the extent those risks exceed the desired retention level.In
addition, as a condition of certain direct underwriting transactions, we are
required by clients, agents or regulation to cede all or a portion of risks to
specified reinsurance entities, such as captives, other insurers, local
reinsurers and compulsory pools.

Over the last several years, the Non-Life Insurance Companies
revised the ceded reinsurance framework and strategy to improve capital
management and support our global product line risk and profitability
objectives.  As a result of adopting the revised framework and strategy,
many individual reinsurance contracts were consolidated into more efficient
global programs and reinsurance ceded to third parties in support of risk and
capital management objectives has decreased for the full year






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

2014 compared to 2013. We continually evaluate the
relative attractiveness of different forms of reinsurance contracts and
different markets that may be used to achieve our risk and profitability
objectives.

Reinsurance markets include:

•Traditional local and global reinsurance markets including those in the
United States, Bermuda, London and Europe, accessed directly and through
reinsurance intermediaries;

•Capital markets through insurance-linked securities and collateralized
reinsurance transactions, such as catastrophe bonds, sidecars and similar
vehicles; and

•Other insurers that engage in both direct and assumed reinsurance.

The form of reinsurance that we may choose from time to time
will generally depend on whether we are seeking:

•proportional
reinsurance, whereby we cede a specified percentage of premium and losses to
reinsurers;

•non-proportional
or excess of loss reinsurance, whereby we cede all or a specified portion of
losses in excess of a specified amount on a per risk, per occurrence (including
catastrophe reinsurance) or aggregate basis; or

•facultative contracts that reinsure individual policies.

Reinsurance contracts do not relieve our subsidiaries from
their direct obligations to insureds. However, an effective reinsurance program
substantially mitigates our exposure to potentially significant losses.

In certain markets, we are required to participate on a
proportional basis in reinsurance pools based on our relative share of direct
writings in those markets.  Such mandatory reinsurance generally covers
higher-risk consumer exposures such as assigned-risk automobile and earthquake,
as well as certain commercial exposures such as workers’ compensation.

In 2014, we continued our strategy to take advantage of the
pricing differential between traditional reinsurance markets and capital
markets. In December 2014, we entered into capital markets reinsurance
transactions, effective as of January 1, 2015, with Tradewynd Re Ltd., which
will provide $500 million of indemnity reinsurance protection against U.S.,
Caribbean, Canadian, Mexican and Gulf of Mexico named storms and U.S.,
Caribbean, Mexican and Canadian earthquakes.  To fund its potential
obligations to AIG, Tradewynd Re Ltd. issued three tranches of notes, one with
a one-year term and two with three-year terms.  The transaction provides
fully collateralized coverage against losses from the events described above on
a per-occurrence basis through December 2015 (on the one-year tranche) and
December 2017 (on the three-year tranches). As of January 2015, our outstanding
catastrophe bond issuances result in us having $925 million of indemnity
reinsurance protection outstanding in the capital markets.

See Item 7. MD&A – Enterprise Risk
Management – Insurance Operations Risks – Non-Life Insurance
Companies Key Insurance Risks – Reinsurance Recoverable for a summary of
significant reinsurers.

REGULATion



Our
operations around the world are subject to regulation by many different types
of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, derivatives,
investment advisory and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad.

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and
supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business.  The
insurance and financial services industries generally have been subject to
heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision in recent years.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

The following table provides a general
overview of our primary regulators and related bodies and a brief description
of their oversight with respect to us and our subsidiaries, including key
regulations or initiatives that we are currently, or may in the future be,
subject to. Such regulations and initiatives, both in the United States and
abroad, are discussed in more detail following the table.

U.S. Federal
  Regulation

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB):Oversees
  and regulates financial institutions, including nonbank systemically
  important financial institutions (nonbank SIFIs). We are currently subject to
  the FRB’s examination, supervision and enforcement authority, and certain
  reporting requirements, as a nonbank SIFI.

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC):Charters, regulates and supervises all national banks and federal savings
  associations. The OCC supervises and regulates AIG Federal Savings Bank, our trust-only
  federal thrift subsidiary.

Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC):Oversees
  and regulates the U.S. securities and security-based swap markets, U.S.
  mutual funds, U.S. broker-dealers and U.S. investment advisors. Principal
  regulator of the mutual funds offered by our broker-dealer subsidiaries. The
  SEC is in the process of implementing rules and regulations governing
  reporting, execution and margin requirements for security-based swaps entered
  into within the U.S or by U.S. persons. Our security-basedswap activities conducted by GCM are likely to be subject
  to certain of these rules and regulations.

Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC):Oversees and regulates the U.S. swap, commodities and futures markets. The
  CFTC has begun implementing and is continuing to implement rules and
  regulations governing reporting, execution, margin and other requirements for
  swaps entered into within the U.S. or involving U.S. persons. Our swap
  activities conducted by GCM are subject to certain of these rules and
  regulations.

Dodd-Frank Wall Street
  Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank):Dodd-Frank has effected
  comprehensive changes to financial services regulation and subjects us, or may
  subject us, as applicable, to additional federal regulation, including:

•enhanced prudential standards for nonbank SIFIs (including minimum
  leverage and risk-based capital requirements, capital planning, stress tests,
  liquidity requirements, corporate governance requirements, contingent capital
  requirements, counterparty credit limits, an early remediation regime process
  and recovery and resolution planning);

•limitations on proprietary trading or covered fund activities, if the
  FRB decides to impose certain elements of Section 619 of Dodd-Frank (referred
  to as the “Volcker Rule”) on nonbank SIFIs;

•financial sector concentration limits; and

•increased regulation and restrictions on derivatives markets and
  transactions.

U.S. State
  Regulation

State Insurance
  Regulators:Our insurance
  subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and
  other jurisdictions in which they do business. Regulation is generally
  derived from statutes that delegate supervisory and regulatory powers to a
  state insurance regulator, andprimarily relates to the insurer’s
  financial condition, corporate conduct and market conduct activities.NAIC Standards:The National Association of
  Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is a standard-setting and regulatory support
  organization created and governed by the chief insurance regulators from the
  50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. The NAIC
  itself is not a regulator, but through the NAIC, state insurance regulators
  establish standards and best practices, conduct peer review and coordinate
  regulatory oversight.

Foreign
  Regulation

Financial Stability Board (FSB):Consists of
  representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations. The FSB
  itself is not a regulator, but it coordinates the
  work of national financial authorities and international standard-setting
  bodies and develops and promotes implementation of regulatory, supervisory
  and other financial policies.

International Association of Insurance Supervisors
  (IAIS):

Represents insurance regulators and supervisors of more than 200
  jurisdictions in nearly 140 countries and seeks to promote globally
  consistent insurance industry supervision. The IAIS itself is not a
  regulator, but the FSB has directed the IAIS to create standards on issues
  such as financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, systemic
  economic risk and corporate governance and incorporate them into IAIS’
  Insurance Core Principles (ICPs). The FSB also charged IAIS with developing a
  template for measuring systemic risks posed by insurer groups. Based on IAIS’
  assessment template, the FSB identified AIG as a global systemically
  important insurer (G-SII), which may subject us to a policy framework that
  includes recovery and resolution planning requirements, enhanced group-wide supervision,
  enhanced liquidity and strategic risk management planning, basic capital
  requirements and higher loss absorbency capital requirements. The IAIS is
  also developing ComFrame, a Common Framework for the Supervision of
  Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs), which includes additional
  supervisory oversight based on its ICPs but also adds requirements and
  supervisory processes pertaining to the international business activities of
  IAIGs.  In connection with ComFrame, the IAIS is in the process of
  developing a risk-based global insurance capital standard applicable to
  IAIGs.  AIG currently meets the parameters set forth to define an IAIG.

European Union (EU):Certain financial services
  firms with regulated entities in the EU, such as us, are subject to
  supplementary supervision, which seeks to enable supervisors to perform
  consolidated insurance group supervision at the level of the ultimate parent
  entity. The objective of supplementary supervision is to detect, monitor,
  manage and control group risks. The UK Prudential Regulatory Authority, the
  United Kingdom’s prudential regulator, is our EU supervisory coordinator. In
  addition, the Financial Conduct Authority has oversight of AIG’s European
  operations for consumer protection and competition matters. The EU has also
  established a set of regulatory requirements for EU derivatives activities
  under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) that include,
  among other things, risk mitigation, risk management and regulatory
  reporting, which are effective, and clearing requirements expected to become
  effective in 2015.

The EU’s Solvency II Directive (2009/138/EEC) (Solvency
  II), which is expected to become effective in 2016, includes minimum capital
  and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and
  public reporting standards. The impact on us will depend on whether the U.S.
  insurance regulatory regime is deemed “equivalent” to Solvency II; if the
  U.S. insurance regulatory regime is not equivalent, then we could be subjected
  to Solvency II standards.

Regulation of Foreign Insurance Company Subsidiaries:Generally,
  our subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local
  regulatory requirements. Our foreign operations are also regulated in various
  jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy language and terms,
  advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of
  reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of local
  investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on
  participating policies. Some foreign countries also regulate rates on various
  types of policies.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

Federal Reserve
Supervision





Due to the determination of the Financial Stability
Oversight Council (Council) that we should be regulated by the FRB as a nonbank
SIFI pursuant to Section 113 of Dodd-Frank, we have been since July 2013
subject to the FRB’s examination, supervision and enforcement authority, and
certain reporting requirements as a nonbank SIFI. Dodd-Frank requires that the
Council reevaluate its determination annually; however, the Council’s 2014
annual reevaluation did not result in a change to our nonbank SIFI status, and
we remain regulated by the FRB.

Dodd-Frank has effected comprehensive changes to the
regulation of financial services in the United States and subjects us to
substantial additional federal regulation. Dodd-Frank directs existing and
newly-created government agencies and oversight bodies to promulgate
regulations implementing the law, an ongoing process that is under way and is
anticipated to continue over the next few years.

As required by Dodd-Frank, the FRB has adopted enhanced
prudential standards (including minimum leverage and risk-based capital
requirements, requirements to submit annual capital plans to the FRB
demonstrating the ability to satisfy the required capital ratios under baseline
and stressed conditions, and stress-testing requirements)for
bank holding companies with $50 billion (and in some cases, $10 billion) or
more in total consolidated assets and certain foreign banking organizations.The FRB






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS



As a nonbank SIFI, we anticipate we will be subject to:

•stress tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the
capital necessary to absorb losses due to adverse economic conditions;

•stricter prudential standards, including stricter requirements and
limitations relating to risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit
exposure, as well as overall risk management requirements;

•management interlock prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan
for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of severe financial distress
(requirements that we are already subject to); and

•an early remediation regime process to be administered by the FRB.

Furthermore, if the Council were to make an additional
separate determination that AIG poses a “grave threat” to U.S. financial
stability, we would be required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more
than 15:1 and the FRB may:

•limit our ability to merge with, acquire, consolidate with, or become
affiliated with another company;

•restrict our ability to offer specified financial products;

•require us to terminate specified activities;

•impose conditions on how we conduct our activities; and

•with approval of the Council, and a determination that the foregoing
actions are inadequate to mitigate a threat to U.S. financial stability,
require us to sell or otherwise transfer assets or off-balance-sheet items to
unaffiliated entities.

As part of its general prudential supervisory powers, the FRB
has the authority to limit our ability to conduct activities that would
otherwise be permissible for us to engage in if we do not satisfy certain
requirements. In addition, if we were to seek to acquire a stake in certain
financial companies, Dodd-Frank would require us to obtain the prior
authorization of the FRB.

Other Effects
of Dodd-Frank



In addition, Dodd-Frank may also have the following effects
on us:






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

•As a nonbank SIFI, we are currently required to provide on an annual
basis (or more frequently, if required) to the FRB and FDIC a plan for our rapid
and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure,
which must, among other things, provide a detailed resolution strategy and
analyses of our material entities, organizational structure, interconnections
and interdependencies, and management information systems.  We continue to
update and refine our resolution plan, which was originally submitted to
regulators on July 1, 2014. Our next resolution plan is required to be
submitted to the FRB and FDIC on July 1, 2015. If the FRB and FDIC jointly
determine, based on their review of the plan, that it is not credible or would
not facilitate our orderly resolution under the bankruptcy code, they may
require us to re-submit an amended plan.  If the re-submitted plan also fails
to meet regulatory expectations, the FRB and FDIC may exercise their authority
under Dodd-Frank to impose more stringent capital, leverage, or liquidity
requirements, restrict our growth, activities, or operations, require us to
divest assets and operations, or otherwise increase their level of supervision
of us.

•The Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other
regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or
practices that we and other insurers or other financial services companies
engage in.

•Title II of Dodd-Frank provides that a financial company whose largest
United States subsidiary is an insurer (such as us) may be subject to a special
resolution process outside the federal bankruptcy code. That process is to be administered
by the FDIC upon a coordinated determination by the director of the Federal
Insurance Office and the FRB, either at the request of the Secretary of the
Treasury or on their own initiative, and in consultation with the FDIC, that
such a financial company is in default or in danger of default and presents a
systemic risk to U.S. financial stability.

•Dodd-Frank provides for significantly increased regulation of and
restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that could affect various
activities of AIG and its insurance and financial services subsidiaries,
including (i) regulatory reporting for swaps (which are regulated by the CFTC)
and security-based swaps (which are regulated by the SEC), (ii) mandated
clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated
exchanges or electronic facilities for certain swaps and security-based swaps
and (iii) margin and collateral requirements.  Although the CFTC has not yet
finalized certain requirements, many other requirements have taken effect, such
as swap reporting, the mandatory clearing of certain interest rate swaps and
credit default swaps, and the mandatory trading of certain swaps on swap
execution facilities or exchanges. The SEC has proposed, but not yet finalized,
rules with respect to certain of the regulations and restrictions noted above governing
security-based swaps. These regulations have affected and may further affect
various activities of AIG and its insurance and financial services subsidiaries
as rules are finalized to implement additional elements of the regulatory
regime.

Similar regulations have been
proposed or adopted outside the United States.  For instance, the EU has also
established a set of new regulatory requirements for EU derivatives activities
under EMIR. These requirements include, among other things, various risk
mitigation, risk management and regulatory reporting requirements that have
already become effective and clearing requirements that are expected to become
effective in 2015. These requirements could result in increased administrative
costs with respect to our EU derivatives activities and overlapping or
inconsistent regulation depending on the ultimate application of cross-border
regulatory requirements between and among U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions.

•Dodd-Frank mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts
should be included in the definition of "swap." If that study
concludes that stable value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain
federal regulators to determine whether an exemption from the definition of a
swap for stable value contracts is appropriate and in the public interest.
Certain of our affiliates participate in the stable value contract business. We
cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the aforementioned study or
be promulgated applicable to this business in the future.

•Dodd-Frank established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the
United States Department of the Treasury (Department of the Treasury) headed by
a director appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. While not having a
general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the
director of this office performs various functions with respect to insurance
(other than health insurance), including serving as a non-voting member of the
Council. On December 12, 2013, the FIO released a Dodd-Frank mandated study on
how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United
States. The report concluded that the uniformity and efficiency of the current
state based regulatory system could be improved and highlighted areas in which
Federal involvement is recommended. In the near-term, the FIO recommended that
the states undertake reforms regarding capital adequacy, reform of insurer
resolution practices, and marketplace regulation.

•Dodd-Frank established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
as an independent bureau within the FRB to regulate consumer financial products
and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB's general jurisdiction,
although the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

Development
has since transferred authority to the CFPB to investigate mortgage insurance
practices. Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the CFPB's
jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity.

•Title XIV of Dodd-Frank also restricts certain terms for mortgage loans,
such as loan fees, prepayment fees and other charges, and imposes certain duties
on a lender to ensure that a borrower can afford to repay the loan.

Dodd-Frank imposes various assessments on financial
companies, including, as applicable to us, fees for our supervision by the FRB
and assessments to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial
company conducted under Title II (although the regulatory authority would have
to take account of the amounts paid by us into state guaranty funds).

We cannot predict whether these actions will become effective
or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our business,
results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and credit ratings.
However, it is possible that such effect could be materially adverse. See Item
1A. Risk Factors — Regulation for additional information.

Other
Regulatory Developments



As described
below, AIG has been designated as a Global Systemically Important Insurer
(G-SII).

The IAIS is also developing ComFrame, a Common Framework
for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs), which
includes additional supervisory oversight based on its ICPs but also adds
requirements and supervisory processes pertaining to the international business
activities of IAIGs.  In connection with ComFrame, the IAIS is in the
process of developing a risk-based global insurance capital standard (ICS)
applicable to IAIGs.  As currently delineated under ComFrame, AIG meets the
parameters set forth to define an IAIG.  ComFrame requirements are
expected to be finalized in






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

2018, and the IAIS is
conducting a field testing of ComFrame, including the ICS, ahead of that
deadline.  It is expected that implementation of ComFrame and the ICS
would begin in 2019.

Legislation in the European
Union could also affect our international insurance operations. The Solvency II
Directive (2009/138/EEC) (Solvency II), which was adopted on November 25, 2009
and is expected to become effective on January 1, 2016, reforms the insurance
industry’s solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency
requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting
standards. Solvency II is expected to be accompanied by Omnibus II, an EU
proposal for a directive that also contains provisions for the capital
treatment of products with long-term guarantees. Additionally, the European
Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority recently introduced interim
guidelines effective January 1, 2014 that provide regulators in EU Member
States with a framework to ensure that insurers make demonstrable progress
towards meeting Solvency II requirements in 2016. The impact on us will depend
on whether the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is deemed “equivalent” to
Solvency II; if the U.S. insurance regulatory regime is not equivalent, then
we, along with other U.S.-based insurance companies, could be required to be
supervised under Solvency II standards. Whether the U.S. insurance regulatory
regime will be deemed “equivalent” is still under consideration by European
authorities and remains uncertain, so we are not currently able to predict the
impact of Solvency II.

We expect that the regulations
applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the
foreseeable future.

Regulation of
Insurance Subsidiaries



Certain states and other jurisdictions require registration
and periodic reporting by insurance companies that are licensed in such
jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation
typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the
registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and
prior approval of intercompany services and transfers of assets, including in
some instances payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary, within the
holding company system. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation
in those jurisdictions that have such requirements.

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and
supervision by the states and by other jurisdictions in which they do business.
Within the United States, the method of such regulation varies but generally
has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to
an insurance official. The regulation and supervision relate primarily to the
financial condition of the insurers and their corporate conduct and market
conduct activities. This includes approval of policy forms and rates, the
standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, including with respect
to risk-based capital, the licensing of insurers and their agents, the nature
of and limitations on investments, restrictions on the size of risks that may
be insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the benefit of
policyholders, requirements for acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations
of the affairs of insurance companies, the form and content of reports of
financial condition required to be filed, reserves for unearned premiums,
losses and other purposes and enterprise risk management and corporate
governance requirements. In general, such regulation is for the protection of
policyholders rather than the equity owners of these companies.

In the U.S., the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) formula is designed
to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the
risks inherent in its business. Virtually every state has adopted, in
substantial part, the RBC Model Law promulgated by the NAIC, which allows
states to act upon the results of RBC calculations, and provides for four
incremental levels of regulatory action regarding insurers whose RBC
calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those levels of action range from
the requirement to submit a plan describing how an insurer would regain a
specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The RBC
formula computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to
various asset, premium and reserve items. These factors are developed to be
risk-sensitive so that higher factors are applied to items exposed to greater
risk.  The statutory surplus of each of our U.S.-based Non-Life Insurance
Companies and Life Insurance Companies exceeded RBC minimum required levels as
of December 31, 2014.

If any of our insurance entities fell below prescribed levels
of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital
or other types of support to that entity. For additional information, see Item
7. MD&A — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity and Capital Resources
of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries — Non-Life Insurance Companies and — Life
Insurance Companies.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESS

The NAIC’s Model Regulation
“Valuation of Life Insurance Policies” (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to
establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with
long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary
guarantees (ULSGs). NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the
application of Regulation XXX as to these guarantees, including certain ULSGs.
See Item 1A – Risk Factors and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
for risks and additional information related to these statutory reserving
requirements.

The NAIC has undertaken the Solvency Modernization Initiative
(SMI) which focuses on a review of insurance solvency regulations throughout
the U.S. financial regulatory system and is expected to lead to a set of
long-term solvency modernization goals. SMI is broad in scope, but the NAIC has
stated that its focus will include the U.S. solvency framework, group solvency
issues, capital requirements, international accounting and regulatory
standards, reinsurance and corporate governance.

A substantial portion of our business is conducted in foreign
countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions
varies. Generally, our subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must
satisfy local regulatory requirements, licenses issued by foreign authorities
to our subsidiaries are subject to modification or revocation by such
authorities, and therefore these subsidiaries could be prevented from
conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently
operate.

In addition to licensing requirements, our foreign operations
are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy
language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount
and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of
local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on
participating policies. Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types
of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions,
wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers
are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always
allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full compensation. In some
countries, regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and
remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of
assets.

See Item 7. MD&A — Liquidity and Capital Resources —
Regulation and Supervision and Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.






TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1 /BUSINESSAVAILABLE
INFORMATION ABOUT AIGOur
corporate website iswww.aig.com.We make available free of charge, through the Investor Information section
of our corporate website, the following reports (and related amendments as
filed with the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC:•Annual Reports on Form 10-K•Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q•Current Reports on Form 8-K•Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings with
the SECAlso available on our corporate website:•Charters for Board Committees:Audit, Nominating and Corporate
Governance, Compensation and Management Resources, Risk and Capital,
Regulatory, Compliance and Public Policy, and Technology Committees•Corporate Governance Guidelines(which include Director
Independence Standards)•Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics (we will post on our website any amendment or
waiver to this Code within the time period required by the SEC)•Employee Code of Conduct•Related‑Party Transactions Approval PolicyExcept for the documents
specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K,
information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our
website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K. Reference to our website is made as an inactive textual
reference.30





TABLE OF CONTENTSItem 1A /risk factors

