ITEM 1 |Business

American International
  Group, Inc. (AIG)is a leading global insurance organization.
  Founded in 1919, today we provide a wide range of property casualty
  insurance, life insurance, retirement products, and other financial services
  to commercial and individual customers in more than 80 countries and
  jurisdictions.Our diverse range of products and
  services help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks
  and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the New
  York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.On September 25, 2017, we announced organizational
  changes designed to best position AIG as a growing, more profitable insurer
  that is focused on underwriting excellence. In this Annual Report on Form
  10-K (Annual Report), we are presenting our businesses consistent with the
  organizational aspects of that announcement. We believe that these
  organizational changes will allow us to leverage our key strengths and focus
  on our future.In this Annual Report, unless
otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms
“AIG,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to American International
Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use
the term “AIG Parent” to refer solely to American International Group, Inc.,
and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.AIG | 2017 Form 10-K3





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIG

Maximizing
  Industry Leadership and Global Footprint



World ClassInsurance Franchisesthat are among
  the leaders in their categories, providing differentiated service and
  expertise.Balance SheetQuality and Strengthas demonstrated
  by over $65 billion in shareholders’ equity and AIG Parent liquidity
  sources of $11.8 billion as of December 31, 2017.EffectiveCapital Managementof the largest
  shareholders’ equityof any insurance company in the world(a).Breadth of Customerswhich include
  over 88 percent of companies in the Fortune Global 500(b)and 83
  percent of the Forbes 2000(b).A Diverse Mix of
  Businessessupported through
  a presence in most international markets.

(a)  At June 30, 2017,
the latest date for which information was available for certain foreign
insurance companies.

(b)  At November 1, 2017.



Creating Value Through Profitable Growth

AIG Priorities for 2018To achieve AIG’s goal to deliver sustainable,
  profitable growth and value to its shareholders, we are focused on the
  following elements of risk management, customer service, and strategic
  growth:•Balance and Diversification of Products–
  Shifting our business mix to grow the best-performing lines of business and
  optimizing our global footprint•Technology and Innovation– Improving the tools and processes that help employees evaluate business and
  provide the best service to customers••Culture and Talent– Structuring,
  resourcing, and incentivizing teams to deliver world-class performance•Capital and Growth–
  Managing capital efficiently and growing through targeted investments in our
  businesses that create value by improving our profitability, book value per
  share and return on equity••Underwriting Excellence– Empowering the
  underwriter and continuing to integrate underwriting, claims and actuarial to
  enable better decision making•Reinsurance Optimization– Strategically partnering with reinsurers to reduce exposure to losses
  arising from frequency of large catastrophic events and the severity from
  individual risk losses



Highlights
for 2017



*    Non-GAAP measure –for
reconciliation of Non-GAAP to GAAP measure see Item 7. Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A).



4AIG | 2017 Form 10-K





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIG

Our Management Framework

AIG’s new
operating structure

Our
new operating structure is designed to reflect how our business is marketed and
underwritten, allowing us to maximize our global platform by empowering our
businesses with the best competitive advantage and ability to serve our
partners and clients.

Our Core businesses
include General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. General
Insurance consists of two operating segments – North America and International.
Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments – Individual
Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets.
Blackboard U.S. Holdings, Inc. (Blackboard), AIG’s technology-driven
subsidiary, is reported within Other Operations. We also report a Legacy
Portfolio consisting of our run-off insurance lines and legacy investments that
we consider non-core.

Consistent with how
we now manage our business, our General Insurance North America operating
segment primarily includes insurance businesses in the United States, Canada
and Bermuda. Our General Insurance International operating segment includes
insurance businesses in Japan, the United Kingdom, Europe, the Asia Pacific
region, Latin America, Puerto Rico, Australia, the Middle East and Africa. General
Insurance results are presented before consideration of internal reinsurance
agreements.

We have
modified the presentation of our business segment results to reflect our new
operating structure and prior periods’ presentation has been revised to conform
to the new structure.

For further discussion on
our business segments see Item 7. MD&A and Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

AIG | 2017 Form 10-K5





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIG

Business Segments



General InsuranceGeneral Insuranceis a leading provider of insurance products and services for
  commercial and personal insurance customers. It includes one of the world’s
  most far-reaching property casualty networks. General Insurance offers a
  broad range of products to customers through a diversified, multichannel
  distribution network. Customers value General Insurance’s strong capital
  position, extensive risk management and claims experience and its ability to
  be a market leader in critical lines of the insurance business.Life
  and RetirementLife and Retirementis a unique franchise that brings together a broad
  portfolio of life insurance, retirement and institutional products offered
  through an extensive, multichannel distribution network. It holds
  long-standing, leading market positions in many of the markets it serves in
  the U.S. With its strong capital position, customer-focused service, breadth
  of product expertise and deep distribution relationships across multiple
  channels, Life and Retirement is well positioned to serve growing market
  needs.

General Insurance companies include the
  following major operating companies: National Union Fire Insurance Company of
  Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union); American Home Assurance Company (American
  Home); Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington); AIG General Insurance
  Company, Ltd. (AIG Sonpo);  AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd. and
  AIG Europe Limited.Life and Retirement companies include
  the following major operating companies: American General Life Insurance
  Company (American General Life); The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company
  (VALIC) and The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York
  (U.S. Life).



Other OperationsOther
  Operationsconsists of businesses and
  items not attributed to our General Insurance and Life and Retirement
  segments or our Legacy Portfolio. It includes AIG Parent; Blackboard; AIG
  Fuji Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Fuji Life), which was sold on April 30,
  2017; United Guaranty Corporation (United Guaranty), which was sold on
  December 31, 2016; deferred tax assets related to tax attributes; corporate
  expenses and intercompany eliminations.Legacy
  PortfolioLegacy
  Portfolioincludes Legacy General
  Insurance Run-Off Lines, Legacy Life and Retirement Run-Off Lines and Legacy
  Investments. Effective in 2018, our newly formed Bermuda domiciled composite
  reinsurer, DSA Reinsurance Company, Ltd. (DSA Re) will be part of our Legacy
  Portfolio.







6AIG | 2017 Form 10-K





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIGDiversified Mix of Businesses(dollars in millions)*    Represents
Adjusted revenues excluding revenues from our Legacy Portfolio operations of
$4.4 billion. Consolidated International Adjusted revenues of $15.1
billion consists of Adjusted revenues from our General Insurance International
operating segment. Consolidated North America Adjusted revenues of $31.6
billion consists of Adjusted revenues from our General Insurance North America
operating segment and Life and Retirement and Other Operations reportable
segments.For reconciliation of Adjusted revenues to Total revenues see Note
3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Geographic ConcentrationIn 2017, 6.5
percent of our property casualty direct premiums were written in the state of
California, and 18.7 percent and 7.7 percent were written in Japan and the
United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign jurisdiction accounted
for more than five percent of our property casualty direct premiums.For further
information on our business segments see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.AIG | 2017 Form 10-K7





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIG

How We Generate
Revenues and Profitability

We earn revenuesprimarily from insurance premiums, policy fees and income
from investments.

Our expensesconsist of policyholder benefits and losses incurred,
interest credited to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and
servicing our products, interest expense and general operating expenses.

Our profitabilityis dependent on our ability to properly price and manage
risk on insurance and annuity products, to manage our portfolio of investments
effectively and to control costs through expense discipline.

Investment Activities of Our Insurance Operations

Our insurance
companies generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying
covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these
premiums and deposits to generate net investment income that, along with the
invested funds, is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we
generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities.

Our worldwide
insurance investment policy places primary emphasis on investments in corporate
bonds, municipal bonds and government bonds in all of our portfolios, and, to a
lesser extent, investments in high yield bonds, common stock, real estate,
hedge funds and other alternative investments. Our fundamental strategy across
all of our investment portfolios is to optimize the duration characteristics of
the assets within a target range based on comparable liability characteristics,
to the extent practicable.

For
additional discussion of investment strategies see Item 7. MD&A — Investments.

Loss Reserve Development Process

The liability
for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (loss reserves) represents the
accumulation of estimates for unpaid claims, including estimates for claims
incurred but not reported (IBNR) for our General Insurance companies, including
the related expenses of settling those losses.

The process of
establishing loss reserves is complex and imprecise because it must take into
consideration many variables that are subject to the outcome of future events.
As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate
exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process.
Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes
in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These
changes are sometimes referred to as “prior year loss development” or “reserve
development.”

For further
discussion onloss reserves and of
prior year loss developmentsee Item 7.
MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Insurance Liabilities — Loss
Reserves, Item 7. MD&A — Insurance Reserves — Loss Reserves, and Note 13 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Our Employees

At AIG, we believe that a major strength of ours is the
quality and dedication of our people. At December 31, 2017 and 2016, we had
approximately 49,800 and 56,400 employees, respectively. We believe that our
relations with our employees are satisfactory.



8AIG | 2017 Form 10-K





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

Regulation

OVERVIEW

Our operations around the world are subject to regulation by
many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance,
securities, derivatives, investment advisory and thrift regulators in the
United States and abroad. The insurance and financial services industries
generally have been subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision
in recent years.

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and
supervision by the states and other jurisdictions in which they do
business. We expect that the domestic and international regulations
applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the
foreseeable future.

Regulatory developments

On September 29, 2017, the Financial Stability Oversight
Council (Council) rescinded its determination that material financial distress
at AIG could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability and as a result, AIG is
no longer designated as a nonbank systemically important financial institution
(nonbank SIFI).  With the rescission of its designation as a nonbank SIFI, AIG
is no longer subject to the consolidated supervision of the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) or subject to the enhanced prudential
standards set forth in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (Dodd-Frank) and its implementing regulations.

U.S. REGULATION

Dodd-Frank

On July 21, 2010, Dodd-Frank, which brought
about the most extensive changes to financial regulation in the United States
in many years, was signed into law.  Although the Council has rescinded its
designation of AIG as a nonbank SIFI, certain provisions of Dodd-Frank remain
relevant to insurance groups generally.

•The
Council has authority to determine, subject to certain statutory and regulatory
standards, that any nonbank financial company be designated as a nonbank SIFI
subject to supervision by the FRB and enhanced prudential standards. The
Council may also recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators
apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices
that nonbank financial services companies, including insurers, engage in.

•Title
II of Dodd-Frank (Orderly Liquidation Authority) provides that a financial
company whose largest United States subsidiary is an insurer may be subject to
a special orderly liquidation process outside the Bankruptcy Code. That process
is to be administered by the FDIC upon a determination that the company is: (i)
in default or in danger of default, (ii) would have serious adverse effects on
U.S. financial stability were it to fail and be resolved, (iii) is not likely
to attract private sector alternatives to default and (iv) is not suitable for
resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. Dodd-Frank authorizes possible
assessments to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company
conducted under Title II. U.S. insurance subsidiaries of any such financial
company, however, would be subject to rehabilitation and liquidation
proceedings under state insurance law.

•Title
VII of Dodd-Frank provides for significantly increased regulation of and
restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that have affected and, as
additional regulations come into effect, could affect various activities of
insurance and other financial services companies, including (i) regulatory
reporting for swaps and security-based swaps, (ii) mandated clearing through
central counterparties and execution through regulated swap execution
facilities for certain swaps and security-based swaps and (iii) margin and
collateral requirements.  Although the Commodities Futures Trading
Commission (CFTC), which oversees and regulates the U.S. swap, commodities and
futures markets, has finalized most of its requirements, the SEC has yet to
finalize the majority of rules comprising its security-based swap regulatory
regime. Increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and
transactions could increase the cost of our trading and hedging activities,
reduce liquidity and reduce the availability of customized hedging solutions
and derivatives.

•Dodd-Frank
mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts should be included
in the definition of "swap." If that study concludes that stable
value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain federal regulators to
determine whether an exemption from the definition of a swap for stable value
contracts is appropriate and in the public interest. Certain of our affiliates
participate in the stable value contract business. We cannot predict what
regulations might emanate from the aforementioned study or be promulgated
applicable to this business in the future.

AIG | 2017 Form 10-K9





•Title V of Dodd-Frank authorizes the United States to enter into
covered agreements with foreign governments or regulatory entities regarding
the business of insurance and reinsurance and on September 22, 2017, the U.S.
and the European Union (EU) entered into such an agreement.For additional
information, see —International Regulation.

•Dodd-Frank
established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), an independent
agency within the FRB, to regulate certain non-insurance consumer financial
products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household
purposes. Insurance products and services are not within the CFPB's general
jurisdiction. Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the
CFPB's jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity.

•Dodd-Frank
established the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) to serve as the central
insurance authority in the federal government.  While not serving a regulatory
function, FIO performs certain duties related to the business of insurance. 
FIO serves as a non-voting member of the Council, has authority to collect
information on the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards,
monitors market access issues, represents the United States in international insurance
forums, has authority to determine, after consulting with the relevant State
and the United States Trade Representative, if certain regulations are
preempted by covered agreements, and assists the Secretary of the Treasury in
administering the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program under the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act of 2002.

On February 3, 2017, the President of the
United States signed an Executive Order that directed the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with federal financial regulators, to assess all
laws, rules and policies that regulate the U.S. financial system, including
requirements put into place under Dodd-Frank since 2010, and to recommend
necessary changes to make sure they conform to certain core principles. 
Treasury divided its review into four parts and has published three reports to
date: Banks and Credit Unions (June 12, 2017), Capital Markets (October 6,
2017), and Asset Management and Insurance (October 26, 2017).  A fourth report
on other nonbank financial institutions, financial technology, and financial
innovation is forthcoming.  In its report on insurance regulation, Treasury
identified several areas for improvement at the federal and state levels and
defined the role it intends for federal agencies.  Among the points made in the
report:

•Treasury
expressed support for an activities-based approach to regulating systemic risk
in the insurance industry rather than designating individual entities;

•Treasury
recommended continued U.S. engagement in international standard-setting forums
and charged FIO with coordinating the efforts of the federal government, state
regulators, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), and
other stakeholders on the issues within its scope, such as covered agreements,
matters related to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program, and standard-setting
at the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), including
discussions regarding capital and liquidity requirements;

•Treasury
expressed support for robust liquidity risk management programs for insurers
and encouraged regulators to continue work on addressing potential liquidity
risk in the insurance sector; and

•Treasury
supported the DOL in delaying full implementation of the DOL Fiduciary Rule
until relevant issues are further evaluated and addressed by the DOL, SEC, and
state insurance regulators working together.For additional information
regarding the DOL Fiduciary Rule, see Item 7. MD&A – Executive Summary – AIG’s
Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors – Department of Labor Fiduciary Rule
and Related Regulatory Developments.

In addition, on April 21, 2017 the President of
the United States directed the Secretary of the Treasury to evaluate and
provide recommendations regarding the Council’s processes for designating
nonbank SIFIs. The Treasury published a report pursuant to this directive on
November 17, 2017, recommending that the Council prioritize an activities-based
approach to regulating systemic risk rather than designating individual
entities, and recommending that the Council increase the analytical rigor of
its designation analyses, enhance engagement with relevant regulators and
transparency to the public, and provide a clear off-ramp to designated nonbank
SIFIs. We will monitor developments resulting from these recommendations
closely.

Insurance Regulation

Certain states and other jurisdictions require registration
and periodic reporting by insurance companies that are licensed in such
jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation
typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the
registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and
prior approval of intercompany transactions and transfers of assets, including
in some instances payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary, within the
holding company system. This legislation also requires any person or entity
desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10 percent) of
our outstanding voting securities to obtain regulatory approval prior to such
purchase. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those
jurisdictions that have such requirements.

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and
supervision by the states and other jurisdictions in which they do business.
The method of such regulation varies but generally has its source in statutes
that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to a state insurance official.
The regulation and supervision relate primarily to the financial condition of
the insurers and their corporate conduct and market conduct activities. This
includes approval of policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that
must

10AIG | 2017 Form 10-K





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

be met and maintained, including with respect to
risk-based capital, the standards on transactions between insurance company
subsidiaries and their affiliates, including restrictions and limitations on
the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by insurance company
subsidiaries to their parent companies, the licensing of insurers and their
agents, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single
policy, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, requirements
for acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of
insurance companies, the form and content of reports of financial condition
required to be filed, reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes
and enterprise risk management and corporate governance requirements. Our
insurance subsidiaries are also subject to requirements on investments, which
prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments they can make. In
general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than the
creditors or equity owners of these companies.

U.S. states have state insurance guaranty associations in
which insurers doing business in the state are required by law to be members. 
Member insurers may be assessed by the associations for certain obligations of
insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states
assess member insurers in amounts related to the member’s proportionate share
of the relevant type of business written by all members in the state. The
protection afforded by a state’s guaranty association to policyholders of
insolvent insurers varies from state to state.

In the U.S., the NAIC is a standard-setting and regulatory
support organization created and governed by the chief insurance regulators
from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. The
NAIC itself is not a regulator, but, with assistance from the NAIC, state
insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer
review and coordinate regulatory oversight. Every state has adopted, in
substantial part, the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Model Law promulgated by the
NAIC or a substantially similar law, which allows states to act upon the
results of RBC calculations, and provides four incremental levels of regulatory
action regarding insurers whose RBC calculations fall below specific
thresholds. Those levels of action range from the requirement to submit a plan
describing how an insurer would regain a specified RBC ratio to a mandatory
regulatory takeover of the company. The RBC formula is designed to measure the
adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in
its business and computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete
factors to various asset, premium, reserve and other financial statement items.
These factors are developed to be risk-sensitive so that higher factors are
applied to items exposed to greater risk.  The statutory surplus of each
of our U.S. based insurance companies exceeded RBC minimum required levels as
of December 31, 2017.

If any of our insurance entities fell below prescribed levels
of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital
or other types of support to that entity.For additional information, see
Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Liquidity
and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries – Insurance
Companies.

The NAIC’s Model Regulation “Valuation of Life Insurance
Policies” (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to establish additional statutory
reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and
universal life policies with secondary guarantees (ULSGs). NAIC Actuarial
Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to
these guarantees, including certain ULSGs.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors and
Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for risks and additional
information related to these statutory reserving requirements.

In December
2012, the NAIC approved a new valuation manual containing a principle-based
approach to life insurance company reserves. Principle-based reserving (PBR) is
designed to tailor the reserving process to specific products in an effort to
create a principle-based modeling approach to reserving rather than the
factor-based approach historically employed. PBR became effective on January 1,
2017, after the NAIC’s model Standard Valuation Law was enacted by the
requisite number of states representing the required premium volume, replacing
Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX with respect to new life insurance business
issued after that date. Two of our domiciliary states (Missouri and Texas) have
adopted the regulations necessary to implement PBR. A third domiciliary state
(New York) has approved PBR for new products written by regulated life insurers
effective January 1, 2018. We have up to three years after January 1, 2017 to
implement PBR, and have currently elected to defer implementation.

The NAIC’s Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act
(the Model Holding Company Act) and the Insurance Holding Company System Model
Regulation include (i) provisions authorizing NAIC commissioners to act as
global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups and
participate in international supervisory colleges, and (ii) the requirement
that the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual
enterprise risk report with its lead state regulator identifying risks likely
to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of
its licensed insurers or the insurance holding company system as a whole. All
of the states where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the
revised Model Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting
requirement.

The NAIC’s Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency
Assessment Model Act (ORSA) requires that insurers maintain a risk management
framework and conduct an internal own risk and solvency assessment of the
insurer’s material risks in normal and stressed environments. All of the states
where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of ORSA.

AIG | 2017 Form 10-K11





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

The NAIC is currently considering
adoption of model standards, and state regulators are currently considering
implementing regulations, that would apply an impartial conduct standard
similar to the DOL Fiduciary Rule to recommendations made in connection with
certain life insurance policies and annuities. For example, on December 27,
2017, the New York Department of Financial Services (NYDFS) proposed
regulations that would adopt a “best interest” standard for the sale of life
insurance and annuity products in New York.For additional information
regarding the DOL Fiduciary Rule, see Item 7. MD&A – Executive
Summary – AIG’s Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors – Department of Labor
Fiduciary Rule and Related Regulatory Developments.

ERISA Considerations

We provide products and services that are subject to the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), or the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code). 
Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit sharing plans and welfare
plans, including health, life and disability plans.  As a result, our
activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal
Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must
perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and
beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in
certain prohibited transactions.  ERISA also provides for civil and
criminal penalties and enforcement.

For additional information regarding the DOL Fiduciary
Rule, see Item 7. MD&A – Executive Summary – AIG’s Outlook –
Industry and Economic Factors – Department of Labor Fiduciary Rule and Related
Regulatory Developments.

Investment Adviser, Broker-Dealer and Investment Company
Regulation

Our investment products and services are subject to federal
and state securities, fiduciary, including ERISA, and other laws and
regulations. The SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), CFTC,
state securities commissions, state insurance departments and the DOL are the
principal U.S. regulators of these operations.

The subsidiaries that manage the operations of our investment
products are registered as investment advisers with the SEC under the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 and are required to supervise the activities of their
personnel.  Our affiliates that offer interests in insurance company
separate accounts, mutual funds and other pooled investment products, and that
provide other financial services to customers, are registered as broker-dealers
with the SEC under the Exchange Act and with certain states, and are also
members of FINRA.  Our broker-dealer subsidiaries and their personnel are
subject to examination by the SEC, FINRA, and the states for compliance with
law, and certain personnel of these broker-dealers are also required to pass
qualification examinations.  Sales to retirement accounts are subject to
the DOL Fiduciary Rule.  The investment products that are offered by our affiliates
may be registered under the Securities Act, which regulates disclosure
regarding the products, and/or the Investment Company of 1940, which imposes
substantive regulation on the structure and governance of the products, as well
as being subject to insurance regulation in the case of separate
accounts.  Some products may also be qualified for sale in various states,
the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.

For additional information regarding the DOL Fiduciary
Rule, see Item 7. MD&A – Executive Summary – AIG’s Outlook –
Industry and Economic Factors – Department of Labor Fiduciary Rule and Related
Regulatory Developments.

Data Protection and Cybersecurity

We are subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that
require financial institutions and other businesses to protect the security and
confidentiality of personal information and provide notice of their practices
relating to the collection and disclosure of personal information. We also are
subject to laws and regulations requiring notification to affected individuals
and regulators of security breaches. In addition, we must comply with laws and
regulations regarding the cross-border transfer of information.

In October 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security
Model Law, which would require insurers, insurance producers and other entities
required to be licensed under state insurance laws to develop and maintain a
written information security program, conduct risk assessments, oversee the
data security practices of third-party service providers and other related
requirements.  It is not clear whether or not, or in what form, the Insurance
Data Security Model Law will be adopted by states in which we have licensed
insurers and other licensed subsidiaries.

Effective March 1, 2017, the NYDFS promulgated a
cybersecurity regulation requiring covered financial services institutions to
implement a cybersecurity program designed to protect information systems. The
regulation imposes specific technical safeguards as well as governance, risk
assessment, monitoring and testing, third party service provider incident
response and reporting and other requirements. The regulation sets forth
transitional periods for compliance with different sections of the regulation
through early 2019. Requirements under the NYDFS’ cybersecurity regulation are
similar to those under the NAIC Insurance Data Security Model Law, with some
differences.

For information on data protection regulation in the EU,
see International Regulation – Data Protection.

12AIG | 2017 Form 10-K





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

Thrift Regulator

AIG Federal Savings Bank, our trust-only federal thrift
subsidiary, is supervised and regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency.

INTERNATIONAL REGULATION

Insurance Regulation

A substantial portion of our business is conducted in foreign
countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions
varies. Generally, our subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must
satisfy local regulatory requirements; licenses issued by foreign authorities
to our subsidiaries are subject to modification or revocation by such
authorities, and therefore these subsidiaries could be prevented from
conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently
operate.

Certain jurisdictions require registration and periodic
reporting by insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions and
are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation typically requires
periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the registered insurer
and the other companies in the holding company system and prior approval of
intercompany transactions and transfers of assets, including in some instances
payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary within the holding company
system. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those
jurisdictions that have such requirements.

In addition to these licensing and other requirements, our
foreign operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to
currency, policy language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security
deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held,
amount and type of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to
policyholders on participating policies. Some foreign countries regulate rates
on various types of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance
institutions, wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which
admitted insurers are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms
that may not always allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full
compensation. In some countries, regulations governing constitution of
technical reserves and remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and
repatriation of assets.

Legislation in the EU could also affect our international
insurance operations. The European Parliament issues Directives on a wide range
of topics that impact financial services. Insurance companies operating in the
EU are subject to the Solvency II framework. The Prudential Regulatory Authority,
the United Kingdom’s (UK’s) prudential regulator, is our lead EU prudential
supervisor.For information on the UK’s pending withdrawal of its membership
in the EU, see —Brexit. The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority has oversight
of AIG’s operations for consumer protection and competition matters within the
UK. In addition, financial companies that operate in the EU are subject to a
range of regulations enforced by the national regulators in each member state
in which that firm operates. The EU has also established a set of regulatory
requirements under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) that
include, among other things, risk mitigation, risk management, regulatory
reporting and clearing requirements. Solvency II governs the insurance industry’s
solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency requirements,
governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards. In
accordance with Solvency II, the European Commission is required to make a
determination as to whether a supervisory regime outside of the EU is
“equivalent.”

On
September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Office of the U.S.
Trade Representative, on behalf of the U.S., and the EU signed the bilateral
Covered Agreement, which is intended to address issues regarding the
application of Solvency II requirements to U.S.-based insurance groups as well
as other (re)insurance regulatory issues. While the signatures by both parties
will allow for the provisional application of the agreement, the agreement is
still subject to approval by the European Parliament before it enters into
force. Other aspects of the agreement remain subject to an implementation
timetable in the U.S. and the EU, which may delay or even prevent the agreement
from being fully implemented.  In particular, the U.S. states will be
given a period of five years to comply with the agreement’s reinsurance
collateral provisions.After 42 months, FIO must begin evaluating a
potential preemption determination with respect to any state law not in
compliance with the aim of assuring full compliance within the five-year
timeframe.The
agreement may be terminated (following mandatory consultation) by notice from
one party to the other effective in 180 days, or at such time as the parties may
agree.

The agreement provides that AIG will be supervised at the
worldwide group level only by its relevant U.S. insurance supervisors, and that
it will not have to satisfy EU Solvency II group capital, reporting and
governance requirements for its worldwide group. The agreement, however, would
permit the imposition of EU Solvency II group capital requirements if, after
five years from the signing of the agreement, a U.S. insurer is not subject to
a group capital assessment by its applicable state regulator. The NAIC is in
the process of developing a group capital calculation that, once adopted by the
states, is expected to satisfy this condition. The agreement further provides
that if the summary risk reports submitted to the supervisory authority of a host
jurisdiction expose any serious threat to policyholder protection or financial
stability in such host state, the host supervisor may request further
information from the insurance group and/or impose preventive or corrective
measures with respect to the (re)insurer in its jurisdiction. The agreement
also seeks to impose equal treatment of U.S. and EU-based reinsurers that meet
certain qualifications.  In the U.S., once

AIG | 2017 Form 10-K13





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

fully
implemented, the agreement requires U.S. states to lift reinsurance collateral requirements
on qualifying EU-based reinsurers and provide them equal treatment with U.S.
reinsurers or be subject to federal preemption. While this provision does not
preclude AIG from continuing to request collateral from an EU reinsurer that is
party to a bilateral reinsurance transaction, it is unclear how much collateral
AIG will be able to obtain from EU reinsurers going forward.

Data Protection

The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will take
effect in May 2018.  The GDPR aims to introduce consistent data protection
rules across the EU, and its scope will extend to entities established within
the European Economic Area (EEA) (i.e., EU member states plus Iceland,
Liechtenstein and Norway) and may extend to certain entities not established in
the EEA (if they process personal data of or offer goods or services to EEA
data subjects or monitor the behavior of EEA data subjects (e.g., in an online
context)).

The GDPR contains a number of new requirements regarding the
processing of personal data about individuals, including mandatory security
breach reporting, new and strengthened individual rights, evidenced data
controller accountability for compliance with the GDPR principles (including
fairness and transparency), maintenance of data processing activity records and
the implementation of “privacy by design”, including through the completion of
mandatory Data Protection Impact Assessments in connection with higher risk
data processing activities.

For additional information on data protection and
cybersecurity regulation generally, see U.S. Regulation – Data Protection and
Cybersecurity.

FSB and IAIS

The Financial Stability Board (FSB) consists of
representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 countries. The FSB
itself is not a regulator but is focused primarily on promoting international
financial stability. It does so by coordinating the work of national financial
authorities and international standard-setting bodies as well as developing and
promoting the implementation of regulatory, supervisory and other financial
policies. The FSB has issued a series of frameworks and recommendations
intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies,
particularly global systemically important financial institutions, should be regulated.
These frameworks and recommendations address such issues as systemic financial
risk, financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, corporate
governance including compensation, and a number of related issues associated
with responses to the financial crisis.

In February 2017, the IAIS announced the adoption of a three-year
systemic risk assessment and policy workplan due to be finalized by year-end
2019. This initiative is comprised of a new macroprudential activities-based
approach (ABA) to regulating systemic risk which will be developed in
conjunction with the IAIS’ previously announced work in finalizing ComFrame,
including the ICS, as well as

14AIG | 2017 Form 10-K





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business



The standards issued by the FSB and/or the IAIS are not
binding on the United States or other jurisdictions around the world unless and
until the appropriate local governmental bodies or regulators adopt appropriate
laws and regulations.  At this time, it is not known how the IAIS’
frameworks and/or standards might be implemented in the United States and other
jurisdictions around the world, or how they might apply to us.

Brexit

On
June 23, 2016, the UK held a referendum in which a majority voted for the UK to
withdraw its membership in the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. The terms of
withdrawal are subject to a formal negotiation period which was initiated on
March 29, 2017 through the invocation of Article 50 of the Treaty on European
Union. Negotiations on Brexit could, by treaty, last up to two years. It is not
clear at this stage (and may not be for some time) what form the UK’s future
relationship with the remaining EU member states will take. We have significant
operations and employees in the UK and other EU member states, including AIG
Europe Ltd., which enjoys certain benefits based on the UK’s membership in the
EU. In order to adapt to Brexit, on March 8, 2017, we announced plans to
reorganize our operations and legal entity structure in the UK and the EU
through the establishment of a new European subsidiary in Luxembourg. The
reorganization is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2018,
subject to regulatory and court approvals. Future regulatory, tax or other
developments may affect this reorganization and result in changes to our plans.

Derivatives

Regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and
transactions have been proposed or adopted outside the United States.  For
instance, the EU has also established a set of new regulatory requirements for
EU derivatives activities under EMIR. These requirements include, among other
things, various risk mitigation, risk management, margin posting and regulatory
reporting requirements that have already become effective and clearing
requirements that were outlined in EU delegated legislation at the end of 2015
and are phased in over three years. These requirements could result in
increased administrative costs with respect to our EU derivatives activities
and overlapping or inconsistent regulation depending on the ultimate
application of cross-border regulatory requirements between and among U.S. and
non-U.S. jurisdictions.

Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) II

The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) and
Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation took effect in Europe on January 3,
2018.  MiFID II and the related regulations are intended to create transparency
in market trading by, for example, imposing trade and transaction reporting and
other requirements. AIG Asset Management (Europe) Limited (AAMEL) has prepared
for the implementation deadline over the last two years and is continuing to
work with data providers, other market participants and AAMEL’s regulator on
compliance with MiFID II and the related regulations.



AIG | 2017 Form 10-K15





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |BusinessAvailable
Information about AIGOur
corporate website iswww.aig.com.We make available free of charge, through the Investor Information section
of our corporate website, the following reports (and related amendments as
filed with the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC:•Annual
Reports on Form 10-K•Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q•Current
Reports on Form 8-K•Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings
with the SECAlso available on our corporate website:•Charters
for Board Committees:Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance,
Compensation and Management Resources, Risk and Capital, Regulatory, Compliance
and Public Policy, and Technology Committees•Corporate
Governance Guidelines(which include Director Independence Standards)•Director,
Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics (we will post on our website any amendment or waiver to this Code within
the time period required by the SEC)•Employee
Code of Conduct•Related‑Party Transactions Approval PolicyExcept for the documents specifically incorporated
by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our
website or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by
reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference to our website
is made as an inactive textual reference.16AIG | 2017 Form 10-K





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A|Risk Factors

