ITEM 1 |Business





American International
  Group, Inc. (AIG)is a leading global insurance
  organization. Founded in 1919, today we provide a wide range of property
  casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement products, and other financial
  services to commercial and individual customers in more than 80 countries and
  jurisdictions.Our diverse offerings include products
  and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets,
  manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed
  on the New York Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange.On January 26, 2016, we announced
  several actions designed to create a leaner, more profitable and focused
  insurer. In this Annual
  Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report), we are presenting our businesses
  consistent with the organizational aspects of that announcement. To carry out these actions, we intend
  to capitalize on our industry-leading capabilities while we continue to strive
  to create shareholder value. We believe that these actions will allow us to
  leverage our key strengths and focus on our 2017 priorities as we strive to
  be our clients’ most valued insurer.



In this Annual Report, unless
otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms
“AIG,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to American International
Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use
the term “AIG Parent” to refer solely to American International Group, Inc.,
and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.

AIG | 2016 Form 10-K3





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIG

AIG’s Industry
  Leadership

World ClassInsurance Franchisesthat are among
  the leaders in their categories, focus on improving their operating
  performance as we strive to be our clients’ most valued insurer.Balance SheetQuality and Strengthas demonstrated
  by over $76 billion in shareholders’ equity and AIG Parent liquidity
  sources of $12.9 billion as of December 31, 2016.EffectiveCapital Managementof the largest
  shareholders’ equityof any insurance company in the world(a), supported by enhanced
  risk management.Breadth of
  CustomersWe serve over 87
  percent of companies included in the Fortune Global 500(b)and 83
  percent of the Forbes 2000(b).A Diverse Mix of
  Businesseswith a presence
  in most international markets.

(a)  At June 30, 2016,
the latest date for which information was available for certain foreign
insurance companies.

(b)  At November 1, 2016.



AIG’s Value
  Creation

AIG Priorities for 2017Our primary focus is growth in intrinsic value. The
  following priorities for 2017 will help us to achieve AIG’s value creation
  goals.•Improving our return on equity (ROE)•Providing innovative solutions to most efficiently meet our
  clients’ needs•Continuing to reduce general operating expenses•Improving profitability of Commercial Insurance through
  underwriting actions and accident year loss ratio improvements



AIG’s Execution: Accomplishments for 2015 and 2016



*    Non-GAAP measure – see Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(MD&A) for reconciliation of Non-GAAP to GAAP measure.

AIG | 2016
Form 10-K4





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIG

OUR
MODULAR MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK

AIG’s new operating model

Modules are designed to enhance
transparency and accountability, which we anticipate will drive operating
improvement and flexibility over time.

In the fourth quarter of 2016, we completed the
reorganization of our financial results into business “modules” to enhance
transparency and accountability. Additionally, we now report a Legacy Portfolio
that aims to maximize shareholder value and better highlight progress on
improving the ROE of our Core business. We believe that these actions will
allow us to enhance efficiency and profitability and focus on our 2017
priorities by leveraging key strengths, as we strive to be our clients’ most
valued insurer.

Our Core businesses include Commercial Insurance and
Consumer Insurance, as well as Other Operations.  Commercial Insurance includes
two modules – Liability and Financial Lines and Property and Special Risks.
Consumer Insurance is comprised of four modules – Individual Retirement, Group
Retirement, Life Insurance and Personal Insurance.  As we continue to focus on
operating improvement, we are exiting certain lines of business and market
regions that we consider non-core and unprofitable while still maintaining a
global presence for our Core businesses. The Legacy Portfolio consists of our
run-off insurance lines and legacy investments.

Our multinational capabilities provide a diverse mix of
businesses through our global offices and branches in more than 80 countries
and jurisdictions. Accordingly, we also review and assess the performance of
our Core business through the broad locations of our insurance operations
across three key geographic modules: the United States, Europe, and Japan. Our
disclosure of geography is based on the significant legal entity insurance
companies (including branches) operating in those geographic areas. The other
geography includes AIG Parent, United Guaranty, Fuji Life, our insurance
operations in remaining geographies around the globe and certain legal entities
not deemed significant in the key geographic areas. Geography disclosures
exclude our Legacy Portfolio.

We have modified the presentation
of our business segment results to reflect our new operating structure and
prior periods’ presentation has been revised to conform to the new structure.

See Item 7. MD&A and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion on our business segments.

AIG | 2016 Form 10-K5





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIG

Business Modules



Commercial InsuranceCommercial Insuranceis a leading provider of insurance products and services for
  commercial customers. It includes one of the world’s most far-reaching
  property casualty networks. Commercial Insurance offers a broad range of
  products to customers through a diversified, multichannel distribution
  network. Customers value Commercial Insurance’s strong capital position,
  extensive risk management and claims experience, and its ability to be a
  market leader in critical lines of the insurance business.Consumer
  InsuranceConsumer Insuranceis a unique franchise that brings together a broad
  portfolio of retirement, life insurance and personal insurance products
  offered through multiple distribution networks. It holds long-standing,
  leading market positions in many of its U.S. product lines, and its global
  footprint provides the opportunity to leverage its multinational servicing
  capabilities and pursue select opportunities in attractive markets. With its
  strong capital position, customer-focused service, innovative product development
  capabilities and deep distribution relationships across multiple channels,
  Consumer Insurance is well positioned to provide clients with valuable
  solutions, delivered through the channels they prefer.





Other OperationsOther
  Operationsconsists of businesses and items not attributed to
  our Commercial and Consumer modules or our Legacy Portfolio. It includes AIG
  Parent, Institutional Markets, United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company
  (United Guaranty), AIG Fuji Life Insurance Company, Ltd. (Fuji Life),
  deferred tax assets related to tax attributes and intercompany eliminations.Legacy
  PortfolioLegacy
  Portfolioincludes Legacy Property
  and Casualty Run-Off Insurance Lines, Legacy Life Insurance Run-Off Lines and
  Legacy Investments.



Geography Modules

United Statesincludes the following major property
  and casualty and life insurance companies: National Union Fire Insurance
  Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union), American Home Assurance Company
  (American Home U.S.), Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington), American
  General Life Insurance Company (American General), The Variable Annuity Life
  Insurance Company (VALIC), and the United States Life Insurance Company in
  the City of New York (U.S. Life).Europeincludes AIG Europe Limited and its
  branches, which are property and casualty companies.Japanincludes the
  following major property and casualty insurance companies: Fuji Fire and
  Marine Insurance Company (Fuji Fire), AIUI Japan, and American Home Assurance
  Company, Ltd. (American Home Japan).



(a)  Represents
Operating revenues excluding revenues from our Legacy Portfolio operations of
$5.3 billion.  See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
reconciliation of Operating revenues to total revenues.

(b)  Other includes AIG
Insurance Company of Canada, American International Reinsurance Company, Ltd.,
AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd., Fuji Life, United Guaranty, various
non-insurance subsidiaries and AIG Parent.

AIG | 2016
Form 10-K6





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIGGeographic
ConcentrationIn 2016, 6.3
percent and 5.2 percent of our property casualty direct premiums were written
in the states of California and New York, respectively, and 16.0 percent and 7.3
percent were written in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other
state or foreign jurisdiction accounted for more than five percent of our
property casualty direct premiums.Diversified Mix of Businesses(dollars in millions)*    Represents Operating revenues excluding
revenues from our Legacy Portfolio operations of $5.3 billion.  See Note 3 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for reconciliation of Operating revenues
to total revenues.How We Generate Revenues and ProfitabilityWe earn revenuesprimarily from insurance premiums, policy fees and income
from investments.Our expensesconsist of policyholder benefits and losses incurred,
interest credited to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and
servicing our products, interest expense and general operating expenses.Our profitabilityis dependent on our ability to properly price and manage
risk on insurance and annuity products, to manage our portfolio of investments
effectively and to control costs through expense discipline.AIG | 2016 Form 10-K7





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business|AIG

Investment
Activities of Our Insurance Operations

Our insurance
companies generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying
covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these
premiums and deposits to generate net investment income that, along with the
invested funds, is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we
generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities.

Our worldwide
insurance investment policy places primary emphasis on investments in corporate
bonds, municipal bonds and government bonds in all of our portfolios, and, to a
lesser extent, investments in high yield bonds, common stock, real estate,
hedge funds and other alternative investments. Our fundamental strategy across
all of our investment portfolios is to optimize the duration characteristics of
the assets within a target range based on comparable liability characteristics,
to the extent practicable.

See Item 7.
MD&A — Investments for additional discussion of investment strategies.

Loss Reserve Development Process

The liability
for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (loss reserves) represents the
accumulation of estimates for unpaid claims, including estimates for claims
incurred but not reported (IBNR) for our property and casualty insurance
companies, including the related expenses of settling those losses.

The process of
establishing loss reserves is complex and imprecise because it must take into
consideration many variables that are subject to the outcome of future events.
As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate
exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process.
Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes
in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These
changes are sometimes referred to as “prior year loss development” or “reserve
development.”

See Item 7.
MD&A — Critical Accounting Estimates — Insurance Liabilities — Loss
Reserves, Item 7. MD&A — Insurance Reserves — Loss Reserves, and Note 13 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion onloss reserves and of prior year loss development.



Our Employees

At AIG, we believe that a major strength of ours is the
quality and dedication of our people. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, we had
approximately 56,400 and 66,400 employees, respectively. We believe that our
relations with our employees are satisfactory.



AIG | 2016
Form 10-K8





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

Regulation

Our operations around the world are subject to regulation by
many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance,
securities, derivatives, investment advisory and thrift regulators in the
United States and abroad.

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and
supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business.  The
insurance and financial services industries generally have been subject to
heightened regulatory scrutiny and supervision in recent years.

The
  following summary provides a general overview of our primary regulators and
  related bodies and a description of their oversight with respect to us and
  our subsidiaries, including key regulations or initiatives that we are
  currently, or may in the future be, subject to. Such regulations and initiatives,
  both in the United States and abroad, are discussed in more detail following
  the summary.

U.S. FEDERAL
  REGULATION

Board of Governors of the
  Federal Reserve System (FRB):Oversees and regulates financial
  institutions, including nonbank systemically important financial institutions
  (nonbank SIFIs). We are currently subject to the FRB’s examination,
  supervision and enforcement authority, and certain reporting requirements, as
  a nonbank SIFI.

Office of the Comptroller
  of the Currency (OCC):Charters, regulates and supervises all national
  banks and federal savings associations. The OCC supervises and regulates AIG
  Federal Savings Bank, our trust-only federal thrift subsidiary.

Securities and Exchange
  Commission (SEC):Oversees and regulates the U.S. securities
  and security-based swap markets, U.S. mutual funds, U.S. broker-dealers and
  U.S. investment advisors. Principal regulator of the mutual funds offered by
  our broker-dealer subsidiaries. The SEC is in the process of implementing
  rules and regulations governing reporting, clearing, execution and margin
  requirements for security-based swaps entered into within the U.S or by U.S.
  persons. Our security-basedswap activities are
  likely to be subject to certain of these rules and regulations.

Commodities Futures Trading
  Commission (CFTC):Oversees and regulates the U.S. swap, commodities and
  futures markets. The CFTC has implemented and is continuing to implement
  rules and regulations governing reporting, clearing, execution, margin and
  other requirements for swaps entered into within the U.S. or involving U.S.
  persons. Our swap activities are subject to certain of these rules and
  regulations.

Dodd-Frank Wall Street
  Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank):Dodd-Frank has
  effected comprehensive changes to financial services regulation and subjects
  us, or may subject us, as applicable, to additional federal regulation,
  including:

•enhanced prudential standards for nonbank SIFIs (including
  minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements, capital planning,
  stress tests, liquidity requirements, corporate governance requirements,
  contingent capital requirements, counterparty credit limits, an early
  remediation regime process and resolution planning);

•limitations on proprietary trading or covered fund activities,
  if the FRB decides to impose certain elements of Section 619 of Dodd-Frank
  (referred to as the “Volcker Rule”) on nonbank SIFIs;

•financial sector concentration limits; and

•increased regulation and restrictions on derivatives markets and
  transactions.

In an
  Executive Order signed on February 3, 2017, the President of the United
  States directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with federal
  financial regulators, to assess all laws, rules and policies that regulate
  the U.S. financial system, including requirements put into place under
  Dodd-Frank since 2010, with a view to producing a plan to revise them as
  necessary.  We are closely following these developments.



AIG | 2016 Form 10-K9





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

U.S. STATE REGULATION

State Insurance Regulators:Our
  insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the
  states and other jurisdictions in which they do business. Regulation is
  generally derived from statutes that delegate supervisory and regulatory
  powers to a state insurance regulator, andprimarily relates to the
  insurer’s financial condition, corporate conduct and market conduct
  activities.NAIC Standards:The
  National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is a standard-setting
  and regulatory support organization created and governed by the chief
  insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five
  U.S. territories. The NAIC itself is not a regulator, but, with assistance
  from the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best
  practices, conduct peer review and coordinate regulatory oversight.

FOREIGN
  REGULATION

Financial Stability Board
  (FSB):The FSB consists of representatives of national financial
  authorities of the G20 countries. The FSB itself is not a regulator but is
  focused primarily on promoting international financial stability. It does so
  by coordinating the work of national financial authorities and international
  standard-setting bodies as well as developing and promoting the
  implementation of regulatory, supervisory and other financial policies.

International Association
  of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS):The IAIS represents insurance
  regulators and supervisors of more than 200 jurisdictions   (including
  regions and states) in nearly 140 countries and seeks to promote globally
  consistent insurance industry supervision. The IAIS itself is not a
  regulator, but one of its activities is to develop insurance regulatory
  standards for use by local authorities across the globe. The FSB has charged
  the IAIS with developing a framework for measuring systemic risks posed by
  insurance groups. Based on the IAIS’ assessment methodology for identifying
  global systemically important insurers (G-SIIs), the FSB has identified nine
  G-SIIs, including us. This designation may subject us to a policy framework
  for G-SIIs that includes recovery and resolution planning, enhanced
  group-wide supervision, enhanced liquidity and systemic risk management
  planning, and group-wide capital standards, including higher loss absorbency (HLA)
  capital.

European Union (EU):The European Parliament issues Directives on a wide range of topics that
  impact financial services. Insurance companies operating in the EU are
  subject to the Solvency II framework. The Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA),
  the United Kingdom’s (UK’s) prudential regulator, is our lead EU prudential
  supervisor. The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority has oversight of AIG’s
  operations for consumer protection and competition matters within the UK. In
  addition, financial companies that operate in the EU are subject to a range
  of regulations enforced by the national regulators in each member state in
  which that firm operates. The EU has also established a set of regulatory
  requirements under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) that
  include, among other things, risk mitigation, risk management, regulatory
  reporting and clearing requirements.

Regulation of Foreign
  Insurance Company Subsidiaries:Generally, our subsidiaries
  operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory
  requirements. Our foreign operations are also regulated in various
  jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy language and terms,
  advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of
  reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of local
  investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on
  participating policies. Some foreign countries also regulate rates on various
  types of policies.

Federal Reserve REGULATION AND Supervision

Due to the determination of the Financial Stability Oversight
Council (Council) that AIG should be regulated by the FRB as a nonbank SIFI, we
have been since July 2013 subject to the FRB’s examination, supervision and
enforcement authority, and certain reporting requirements. Dodd-Frank requires
that the Council reevaluate its determination annually. The Council’s annual
reevaluations to date have not resulted in a change to our nonbank SIFI status,
and we remain regulated by the FRB. However, in light of the recent change in
administration in the United States, there is considerable uncertainty as to
the future of federal regulation of nonbank SIFIs. Depending on developments,
important elements of AIG’s supervision at the federal level, including those
described in this section and the following section, Other Effects of
Dodd-Frank, may change significantly.

As a nonbank SIFI, we anticipate we may be
subject to:

•stress
tests to determine whether, on a consolidated basis, we have the capital
necessary to absorb losses due to adverse economic conditions;

•enhanced
prudential standards, including new group-wide requirements relating to
risk-based capital, leverage, liquidity and credit exposure, as well as overall
risk management requirements; and

•an
early remediation regime process to be administered by the FRB.

On June 3, 2016, the FRB issued for public comment a notice
of proposed rulemaking (NPR) on enhanced prudential standards that would
require insurer nonbank SIFIs to comply with corporate governance and
risk-management standards and liquidity risk management standards.  These
proposed standards build on the FRB’s current guidance for large financial
institutions supervised by the FRB and have been tailored to insurance
companies.  The comment period has closed, and we anticipate that the FRB will
adopt a final rule in the future after evaluating all comments received. Under
the proposal, the insurer nonbank SIFIs would have at least twelve months to
comply.

On June 3, 2016, the FRB released for public comment an
advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) outlining two conceptual insurance
group capital frameworks that could apply to insurance groups supervised by the
FRB - a building block approach, proposed for insurance institutions that are
savings and loan holding companies or bank holding companies by virtue of
owning

AIG
| 2016 Form 10-K10





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

depository institutions, and a consolidated
approach for insurer nonbank SIFIs.  In general, the consolidated approach
would consolidate an insurance company’s assets and insurance liabilities into
risk segments tailored to account for the liability structure and unique
features of the insurance company, apply risk factors to each segment and then
set minimum capital requirements. The ANPR does not provide details on specific
risk segments, risk factors, capital adequacy ratios and other important
elements that could be applied to us under the consolidated approach, and we
cannot predict how such an approach would affect our business, results of
operations, financial condition or capital requirements. The comment period has
closed and we anticipate that the FRB will issue a NPR after evaluating all
comments received.

As part of its general prudential supervisory powers, the FRB
has the authority to limit our ability to conduct activities that would
otherwise be permissible for us to engage in if we do not satisfy certain
requirements. With regard to acquisitions, Dodd-Frank would require us to
obtain the prior authorization of the FRB if we sought to acquire a stake in
certain financial companies. We are also subject to management interlock
prohibitions and a requirement to maintain a plan for rapid and orderly
resolution in the event of severe financial distress. We cannot predict how the
FRB’s continuing exercise of its general supervisory authority over us as a
nonbank SIFI will develop, although the FRB could, as a prudential matter, for
example, limit our ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares of AIG Common
Stock or to acquire or enter into other businesses. We cannot predict with
certainty the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted or how or
whether Dodd-Frank and such regulations will affect the financial markets
generally or impact our businesses, results of operations, cash flows or
financial condition, capital adequacy position or credit ratings.

Furthermore, if the Council were to make an additional
separate determination that we pose a “grave threat” to U.S. financial
stability, we would be required to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more
than 15:1 and the FRB may impose additional restrictions.

Other Effects of Dodd-Frank

In addition, Dodd-Frank may also have the
following effects on us:

•As
a nonbank SIFI, we are currently required to provide on an annual basis to the
FRB and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) a plan for our rapid and
orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure,
which must provide a detailed resolution strategy and analyses of our material
entities, organizational structure, interconnections and interdependencies, and
management information systems.  In accordance with an extension of the annual
deadline provided by the FRB and FDIC to 38 firms including AIG in 2016, we
plan to submit our next resolution plan to regulators on December 31, 2017.  If
the FRB and FDIC jointly were to determine, based on their review of the plan,
that it is not credible or would not facilitate our orderly resolution under
Title 11 of the United States Code (the Bankruptcy Code), the FRB and FDIC may
require us to re-submit an amended plan.  If the re-submitted plan also were to
fail to meet regulatory expectations, the FRB and FDIC may exercise their
authority under Dodd-Frank to impose more stringent capital, leverage, or
liquidity requirements, restrict our growth, activities, or operations, require
us to divest assets and operations, or otherwise increase their level of
supervision of us.

•The
Council may recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply
new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices that we
and other insurers or other financial services companies engage in.

•Title
II of Dodd-Frank (Orderly Liquidation Authority) provides that a financial
company whose largest United States subsidiary is an insurer may be subject to a
special orderly liquidation process outside the Bankruptcy Code. That process
is to be administered by the FDIC upon a determination that the company is in
default or in danger of default, is not likely to attract private sector
alternatives to default and is not suitable for resolution under the Bankruptcy
Code. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, however, would be subject to
rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state insurance law.

•Title
VII of Dodd-Frank provides for significantly increased regulation of and
restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that have affected and, as
additional regulations come into effect, could affect various activities of AIG
and its insurance and financial services subsidiaries, including (i) regulatory
reporting for swaps and security-based swaps, (ii) mandated clearing through
central counterparties and execution through regulated swap execution
facilities for certain swaps and security-based swaps and (iii) margin and
collateral requirements.  Although the CFTC has finalized many of its
requirements, the SEC has yet to finalize the majority of rules comprising its
security-based swap regulatory regime.

•Similar
regulations have been proposed or adopted outside the United States.  For
instance, the EU has also established a set of new regulatory requirements for
EU derivatives activities under EMIR. These requirements include, among other
things, various risk mitigation, risk management, margin posting and regulatory
reporting requirements that have already become effective and clearing
requirements that were outlined in EU delegated legislation at the end of 2015
and are phased in over three years. These requirements could result in
increased administrative costs with respect to our EU derivatives activities
and overlapping or inconsistent regulation depending on the ultimate
application of cross-border regulatory requirements between and among U.S. and
non-U.S. jurisdictions.

•Dodd-Frank
mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts should be included
in the definition of "swap." If that study concludes that stable
value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain federal regulators to
determine whether an exemption from the definition of a swap for stable value
contracts is appropriate and in the public interest. Certain of our affiliates

AIG | 2016 Form 10-K11





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

participate in the stable value contract business. We
cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the aforementioned study or
be promulgated applicable to this business in the future.

•Dodd-Frank
established the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the United States
Department of the Treasury (Department of the Treasury) headed by a director
appointed by the Secretary of the Treasury. The director of the FIO performs
various public policy functions with respect to insurance, including serving as
a non-voting member of the Council.

•On
November 20, 2015, the Department of the Treasury, assisted by the FIO, and the
United States Trade Representative announced their intention to negotiate an
agreement between the U.S. and the EU regarding prudential measures with
respect to insurance and reinsurance. On January 13, 2017, the U.S. and EU
announced that they had successfully negotiated terms of such an agreement. For
additional information, see Regulation – Other Regulatory Developments.

•Dodd-Frank
established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) within the FRB to
regulate consumer financial products and services offered primarily for
personal, family or household purposes. Insurance products and services are not
within the CFPB's general jurisdiction. Broker-dealers and investment advisers
are not subject to the CFPB's jurisdiction when acting in their registered
capacity.

Dodd-Frank authorizes various assessments on financial
companies, including, as applicable to us, fees for our supervision by the FRB
and possible assessments to cover the costs of any special resolution of a
financial company conducted under Title II.

We cannot predict whether all these actions will become
effective or the effect they may have on the financial markets or on our
business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and credit
ratings. However, it is possible that such effect could be materially adverse.See
Item 1A. Risk Factors — Regulation for additional information.

Other Regulatory Developments

In addition to the adoption of Dodd-Frank in the United
States, regulators and lawmakers around the world are continuing to review the
causes of the financial crisis and taking steps to avoid similar problems in
the future. In the past few years, a number of jurisdictions in which our
subsidiaries conduct business have implemented legislative and regulatory
changes consistent with recommendations of the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank, which conduct periodic Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP) reviews to measure local regulatory regimes against the standards set by
the IAIS. Examples include updated Insurance Company Ordinances in Hong Kong
and consolidated regulation of insurance holding companies by the Financial
Services Agency in Japan.

The IAIS intends G-SIIs to be subject to a policy framework
that includes recovery and resolution planning, enhanced group-wide
supervision, enhanced liquidity and systemic risk management planning; and
group-wide capital standards, including HLA capital. The IAIS’ basic capital
requirement (BCR) was endorsed by the FSB in October 2014 and by the G20
countries in November 2014.  The BCR covers all group activities, and we
reported our BCR ratios to national authorities on a confidential basis in 2015
and 2016.  The BCR serves as the initial foundation for the application of
HLA requirements.  In October 2015, the IAIS announced that it had concluded
initial development of the HLA requirements, according to which we reported on
a confidential basis to supervisors in 2016. HLA requirements were endorsed by
the FSB in September 2015 and by the G20 countries in November 2015. Both the
BCR and HLA requirements are calculated for insurance and non-insurance
activities.  Ultimately, the G-SII policy framework is expected to be fully
implemented by the IAIS by 2019.

The standards discussed above, issued by the FSB and/or the
IAIS, are not binding on the United States or other jurisdictions around the
world unless and until the appropriate local governmental bodies or regulators
adopt appropriate laws and regulations.  At this time it is not known how the
IAIS’ frameworks and/or standards might be implemented in the United States and
other jurisdictions around the world, or how they might apply to us.

AIG
| 2016 Form 10-K12





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

Legislation in the EU could also
affect our international insurance operations. Solvency II reforms the
insurance industry’s solvency framework, including minimum capital and solvency
requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting
standards. In accordance with Solvency II, in the absence of a decision by the
European Commission on whether a supervisory regime outside of the EU is
equivalent, Member States may decide either to apply relevant Solvency II
requirements to a worldwide insurance group operating in the EU as if it were
based in the European Economic Area, or to use “other methods”.

ERISA Considerations

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit
plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended (ERISA), or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
Internal Revenue Code).  Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit
sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. 
As a result, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA
and the Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that
fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan
participants and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered
plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions.  ERISA also provides for
civil and criminal penalties and enforcement.

On April 8, 2016, the DOL published its final fiduciary duty
rule (the DOL Fiduciary Rule), substantially expanding the definition of
fiduciary investment advice. As a result, the circumstances under which
financial services providers and financial advisors could be deemed a fiduciary
under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code when providing investment advice with
respect to ERISA plans or Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) are greatly
expanded. The DOL Fiduciary Rule contains revisions to and adoptions of new

AIG | 2016 Form 10-K13





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

prohibited transaction exemptions under ERISA, including
revisions to a prohibited transaction exemption historically available in
conjunction with the sale of fixed and variable annuity contracts to ERISA
covered plans, commonly referred to as “84-24”, and the adoption of the “best
interest contract exemption”.  The initial compliance date of the DOL Fiduciary
Rule is April 10, 2017, with full compliance required by January 1, 2018. On
February 3, 2017, the new U.S. administration issued a memo requiring the DOL
to review the DOL Fiduciary Rule and determine whether it will adversely impact
the ability of retirement savers to access information and financial advice.
Accordingly, the DOL announced that it would consider legal options for
postponing the applicability date of the DOL Fiduciary Rule while the DOL
considers the issues raised in the referenced memo. We are closely following
the DOL’s pronouncements about further delays to the DOL Fiduciary Rule’s
applicability date.For additional information, see Item 7. MD&A —
Executive Summary – AIG’s Outlook – Industry and Economic Factors- Department
of Labor Fiduciary Rule and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.

We expect that the regulations applicable to us and our
regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future.

Regulation of Insurance Subsidiaries

Certain states and other jurisdictions require registration
and periodic reporting by insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions
and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation typically requires
periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the registered insurer
and the other companies in the holding company system and prior approval of
intercompany services and transfers of assets, including in some instances
payment of dividends by the insurance subsidiary, within the holding company
system. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those
jurisdictions that have such requirements.

In the U.S., the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) formula is designed
to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the
risks inherent in its business. Virtually every state has adopted, in
substantial part, the RBC Model Law promulgated by the NAIC, which allows
states to act upon the results of RBC calculations, and provides for four
incremental levels of regulatory action regarding insurers whose RBC
calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those levels of action range from
the requirement to submit a plan describing how an insurer would regain a
specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The RBC
formula computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to
various asset, premium and reserve items. These factors are developed to be
risk-sensitive so that higher factors are applied to items exposed to greater
risk.  The statutory surplus of each of our U.S. based insurance companies
exceeded RBC minimum required levels as of December 31, 2016.

If any of our insurance entities fell below prescribed levels
of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital
or other types of support to that entity. For additional information, seeItem
7. MD&A — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Liquidity and Capital Resources
of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries — Insurance Companies.

The NAIC’s Model Regulation “Valuation of Life Insurance
Policies” (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to establish additional statutory
reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and
universal life policies with secondary guarantees (ULSGs). NAIC Actuarial
Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to
these guarantees, including certain ULSGs. See Item 1A – Risk Factors and Note
18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for risks and additional
information related to these statutory reserving requirements. In December
2012, the NAIC approved a new valuation manual containing a principle-based
approach to life insurance company reserves. Principle-based reserving (PBR) is
designed to tailor the reserving process to specific products in an effort to
create a principle-based modeling approach to reserving rather than the
factor-based approach historically employed. PBR became effective on January 1,
2017, after NAIC’s model Standard Valuation Law was enacted by the requisite
number of states representing the required premium volume, replacing Regulation
XXX and Guideline AXXX with respect to new life insurance business issued after
that date. Two of our domiciliary states (Missouri and Texas) have adopted the
regulations necessary to implement PBR. We have up to three years after January
1, 2017 to implement PBR, and have currently elected to defer implementation.

AIG
| 2016 Form 10-K14





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |Business

The NAIC has adopted revisions to
the NAIC Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act (the Model Holding
Company Act) and the Insurance Holding Company System Model Regulation.  The
revised models include provisions authorizing NAIC commissioners to act as
global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups, and
the requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an
annual enterprise risk report with the lead state of the insurer identifying
risks likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or
liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole.
All of the states where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the
revised Model Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting
requirement.

A substantial portion of our business is conducted in foreign
countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions
varies. Generally, our subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must
satisfy local regulatory requirements; licenses issued by foreign authorities
to our subsidiaries are subject to modification or revocation by such
authorities, and therefore these subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting
business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate.

In addition to licensing requirements, our foreign operations
are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy
language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount
and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of
local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on
participating policies. Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types
of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions,
wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers
are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always
allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full compensation. In some
countries, regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and
remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of
assets.

See Item 7. MD&A — Liquidity and Capital Resources —
Regulation and Supervision and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.



AIG | 2016 Form 10-K15





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1 |BusinessAvailable
Information about AIGOur
corporate website iswww.aig.com.We make available free of charge, through the Investor Information section
of our corporate website, the following reports (and related amendments as
filed with the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC:•Annual
Reports on Form 10-K•Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q•Current
Reports on Form 8-K•Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings
with the SECAlso available on our corporate website:•Charters
for Board Committees:Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Compensation
and Management Resources, Risk and Capital, Regulatory, Compliance and Public
Policy, and Technology Committees•Corporate
Governance Guidelines(which include Director Independence Standards)•Director,
Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and
Ethics (we will post on our website any amendment or waiver to this Code within
the time period required by the SEC)•Employee
Code of Conduct•Related‑Party Transactions Approval PolicyExcept for the documents specifically incorporated
by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our
website or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by
reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference to our website
is made as an inactive textual reference.AIG
| 2016 Form 10-K16





TABLE OF CONTENTSITEM 1A|Risk Factors

