
10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)

[ X ] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

For the fiscal year ended June 30, 1999

                              OR
[   ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

For the transition period from _____________ to _____________

Commission Number 0-14112

                          JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                               43-1128385
(State or other jurisdiction of                 (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                   Identification No.)

                663 Highway 60, P. O. Box 807, Monett, MO  65708
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

Registrant's telephone number
including area code: (417) 235-6652

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
      None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

      Common Stock ($.01 par value)
      (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x   No

As of August 17, 1999, Registrant had 20,117,855 shares of Common Stock
outstanding ($.01 par value).  On that date, the aggregate market value of the
Common Stock held by persons other than those who may be deemed affiliates of
Registrant was $571,062,848 (based on the average of the reported high and low
sales prices on NASDAQ on such date).










Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ X ]
                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The below indicated portions of the Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. definitive
Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy
Statement") are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.


                              CROSS REFERENCE SHEET

                        Part of
                        Form 10-K               Proxy Statement

                        Part III, Item 10       "Election of Directors" and
                                                "Executive Officers and
                                                Significant Employees"

                        Part III, Item 11       "Executive Compensation";
                                                "Compensation Committee
                                                 Report"; and "Company
                                                Performance"

                        Part III, Item 12       "Stock Ownership of Certain
                                                Stockholders" and
                                                "Election of Directors"







                                     PART I
ITEM 1.     BUSINESS
                       INTEGRATED BANKING SOFTWARE SYSTEMS

OVERVIEW -- Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. ("JHA" or the "Company") provides
integrated computer systems for in-house and service bureau data processing to
banks and other financial institutions.  JHA has developed several banking
applications software systems which it markets, along with the computer
hardware, to financial institutions throughout the United States.  JHA also
performs data conversion, software installation and software customization for
the implementation of its systems, and provides continuing customer mainte-
nance/support services after the systems are installed.

Over the last five years, the Company s revenues have grown from $54.8 million
to $184.5 million; and earnings have grown from $5.5 million to $31.8 million.
The Company s growth has resulted primarily from acquisitions and internal
expansion.  This growth has allowed the Company to develop new products and
expand its core systems customer base to approximately 1,400.  The number of
Company employees has increased from 274 to 977.

MARKETS AND COMPETITION -- JHA's primary market consists of the approximately
8,800 commercial banks in the United States with less than $10 billion in total
assets.  Community banks account for approximately 8,700 of that number.  The
population of community banks decreased by 4% in 1998.  In 1998, statistics
reported in "Automation in Banking 1999" showed that financial institutions
spent approximately $34 billion on hardware, software, services and telecommuni-
cations.  In-house vendors have 61% of the commercial banks as customers.
Centralized off-site service bureaus provide data processing for 39% of the
banks, down from two-thirds in the mid 80's.  Many organizations provide data
processing to banks through a service bureau approach.  Some service bureaus are
affiliated with large financial institutions which may have other relationships
with potential bank customers, but this is less prevalent than in the past.
Typically, a bank which is making a data processing decision will consider both
service bureau and in-house alternatives.
Of the small-to-mid-size banks with in-house installations, 42% utilize IBM
hardware, 24% NCR and 21% Unisys Corporation, respectively.  All other vendors
were under 6% shares of the in-house community bank market.  In 1998, eight of
the top ten software providers in this market, ranked by number of installed
customers, offered their products on IBM hardware.  According to that survey,
JHA had the most installed customers (approximately 1,275 at 12-31-98) of all
providers.   Although the top ten software providers accounted for about 88% of
in-house systems installed, the study identified 21 other software vendors in
this arena.  That number has been declining in recent years.

JHA believes that the primary competitive factors in software selection are
comprehensiveness of applications, features and functions, flexibility and ease
of use, customer support, references of existing customers, and hardware
preferences and pricing.  The price of the software and the related services is
also a significant competitive factor which may be determinative, particularly
for smaller banks.  Management believes that JHA's results and the size of its
customer base indicate that JHA generally compares favorably in the competitive
factors.  However, the in-house banking software industry includes several
competitors, based upon the size of their respective customer bases.  Over half
of the most successful competitors utilize IBM hardware.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES -- JHA's business and operations include three major
categories which are software and installation, maintenance/support and
hardware.  Software includes the development and licensing of applications
software systems and the conversion, installation and customization services
required for the customer's installation of the systems.  Maintenance/support
consists of the ongoing services to assist the customer in operating the systems
and to modify and update the software to meet changes in banking.  Hardware
sales (often referred to as remarketing) include both the computer equipment and
the equipment maintenance on which the JHA software systems operate.  Also,
included in hardware is the resale of forms and supplies.  The following table
illustrates the significance of each of these three areas, expressed as a
percentage of total revenues:



JHA's primary banking software systems are CIF 20/20(TM) and the Silverlake
System(R).  CIF 20/20 is the latest version of a series of systems that has
evolved from JHA's original system which was first installed in 1977.  It is
written using the RPG/400 language to take advantage of the relational data base
features and functions of the IBM AS/400(TM ) computer.  CIF/36, CIF/34 and
CIF/32 are all predecessors of this software system, which ran on IBM System 36,
34 and 32 hardware.  CIF 20/20 operates on IBM AS/400 and IBM System 36 hardware
and is designed primarily for financial institutions with total assets ranging
up to $300 million.  The Silverlake System was developed (rather than having
been migrated from equipment with other architecture) by JHA in 1986 and 1987 to
take advantage of the relational data base characteristics of IBM System 38 and
AS/400 hardware.  It is designed generally for somewhat larger banks than CIF
20/20 and multi-bank groups ranging up to $10 billion in total assets.  The
computer equipment now being offered extends this system into the low end of the
large bank arena, previously limited to "mainframe" computer systems.  JHA is
one of the few vendors that offers its customers truly native software products
for use on the AS/400.

Each of the systems consists of several fully integrated applications software
modules, such as Deposits, Loans, General Ledger, and the Customer Information
File (which is a centralized file containing customer data for all
applications).  The systems make extensive use of parameters established by the
customer.  The systems can be interfaced with (connected to) a variety of
peripheral devices used in bank operations including teller machines, on-line
teller terminals and magnetic character readers.  JHA software is designed to
provide maximum flexibility in meeting a bank's data processing requirements
within a single system, minimizing data entry.

JHA devotes significant effort and expense to develop and continually upgrade
and enhance its software.  Upgrades and enhancement efforts are directed
primarily through prioritized lists prepared by its national users organization
and in response to changes in the banking environment.  Bank regulation, by
federal and state banking agencies, has a significant impact on JHA's software
since JHA must maintain its systems in compliance with those regulations.  JHA's
research and development expenditures were $5,138,000, $4,155,000 and $3,131,000
in FY '99, '98 and '97, respectively.  Portions of the expenditures are required
to be capitalized when incurred and then amortized in subsequent periods.
Including the effect of this amortization, the amount of research and
development costs charged to expense in those years is $5,073,000, $4,163,000
and $3,012,000, respectively.

The Company licenses CIF 20/20 and the Silverlake System under standard license
agreements which provide the customer with a fully-paid, nonexclusive,
nontransferable right to use the software for a term of 25 years on a single
computer and for a single financial institution location upon payment of the
license fee.  Generally, license fees are payable 25% upon execution of a
license agreement, 65% upon delivery of the software, and the balance at the
installation of the last application module.  The Company provides a limited
warranty for its unmodified software for a period of 60 days from delivery.
Under the warranty, the Company will correct any program errors at no additional
charge to the customer.

JHA claims a proprietary interest in its software programs, documentation,
methodology and know-how.  It also utilizes copyright protection, trademark
registration, trade secret laws and contract restrictions to protect its
interest in these products.

JHA provides data conversion and software installation services to assist its
customers in implementing their JHA software system.  JHA provides these
services on an hourly or a fixed-fee basis, depending on the customers'
preference.  After a customer installation is complete, the customer is
encouraged (but not required) to contract with JHA for software mainte-
nance/support.  These services, which are provided for an annual fee, include
updates of the software to meet regulatory requirements and telephone support to
assist the customer in operating the system.  JHA also offers maintenance
services for hardware, providing customers who have contracted for this service
with "one-call" system support covering hardware, system software and
applications software.  The hardware maintenance contract is between JHA and its
customer.  The actual hardware maintenance is performed by the hardware
manufacturer under a contract between the manufacturer and JHA.




Silverlake System(R) is a registered trademark of Jack Henry & Associates, Inc.
CIF 20/20(TM) is a trademark of Jack Henry & Associates, Inc.  AS/400(TM) is a
trademark of International Business Machines Corporation.



Hardware manufacturers enter into marketing and other arrangements with software
companies, such as JHA, because each depends upon the products of the other.
These arrangements generally include financial incentives paid by the
manufacturer to the software company.  They may be structured as hardware
commissions based upon hardware sold by the manufacturer in conjunction with the
company's software or as a remarketer arrangement.  A remarketer arrangement
allows the software company to purchase hardware from the manufacturer at a
discount and sell (remarket) it to customers along with the company's software.
Remarketer arrangements usually require the software company to assume more of
the marketing and customer contact responsibilities.  The margin earned by a
remarketer on hardware it sells is generally greater than the amounts received
on commission arrangements.  Only a minor portion of JHA s revenues are realized
from commission arrangements.  Remarketer arrangements are generally not
exclusive.  Effective January 1, 1999, JHA renewed its industry remarketer (IR)
agreement with IBM for an additional two year term.  The Company continues to
operate under the IBM Business Partner marketing program, and under that program
has been a Premier Business Partner for the past seven years.

The IR agreement allows JHA to sell IBM's newest mid-range computer system, the
AS/400, along with its banking software system.  It also allows JHA to provide
upgraded and additional equipment to its existing IBM customers.  IBM hardware
maintenance will also continue to be offered to customers, providing "one-call"
customer support service for hardware, system software and applications software
support.

JHA offers outsourcing solutions to customers through service bureaus, which
give the customers the same capabilities as the in-house offering, which perform
data and item processing.  Customers pay monthly  usage fees on the multi-year
service contracts for these services.

JHA offers automatic teller machine (ATM) software and provides regional and
national switching services for various electronic fund transactions.  Customers
pay license and maintenance fees for the software and monthly usage and item
processing fees for the switching services.

JHA also offers emergency facilities backup to its core system customers using
its Bank Business Recovery Services ("BBRS").  The Company has established nine
locations, strategically located geographically, to provide backup to its
customers.  Each location contains the computer equipment needed to provide bank
data processing in the event a subscriber s equipment is destroyed in a fire or
natural disaster.

The service bureau, electronic funds switching services and bank business
recovery services provided by JHA are subject to specific review by various
banking regulatory agencies.

MARKETING -- JHA markets its products throughout the United States using sales
representatives who are employed by and work directly for JHA.  The Company
offers both Silverlake System, CIF 20/20 and its other ancillary products
through the efforts of its company sales representatives.

JHA's primary market is commercial banks.  JHA has not devoted significant
marketing and sales efforts to other financial institutions such as savings and
loans.  JHA does have some savings and loan and savings bank customers, but most
of them operate more like a commercial bank than a traditional thrift
institution.  With its current range of products, JHA systems are appropriate
for all but the largest regional money center banks.  Most of the sales effort
and success has been in banks from $2 million to $2 billion in total assets.

JHA also has a few installations in the Caribbean and one in West Africa through
the marketing efforts of its small foreign sales corporation, Jack Henry
International Limited ("JHI").  JHI's international sales have historically
accounted for substantially less than 5% of JHA's revenues.

The Company's backlog of business was $86,556,000 and $72,465,000 at June 30,
1999, and 1998.  Backlog at August 17, 1999, was $80,714,000.

           RISK FACTORS AFFECTING THE COMPANY S BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS

The Company's business and the results of its operations are affected by
numerous factors and uncertainties, some of which are beyond the control of the
Company.  The following is a description of some of the important risk factors
and uncertainties that may cause the actual results of the Company's operations
in future periods to differ materially from those currently expected or desired.

TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE.  The market for the Company s software and hardware is
characterized by technological advances and evolving standards.  In addition,
changes in banking requirements and new equipment introductions and enhancements
could render the Company s existing products unmarketable.  Accordingly, the
Company s future success depends heavily upon its ability to enhance its current
products in a timely fashion and develop and introduce new products that keep
pace with technological developments.

AGGRESSIVE COMPETITION.  Competition in the banking software and services
industries is expected to remain vigorous.  The Company competes on the basis of
product quality, reliability, performance, ease of use, quality of support and
product pricing.  Some of the Company's competitors have strong financial,
marketing, manufacturing and technological resources, broad product lines and
larger installed customer bases than does the Company.

DEPENDENCE ON IBM RELATIONSHIP.  The Company s products incorporate and use
computer hardware and equipment developed by IBM.  There can be no assurance
that IBM will continue to manufacture hardware that supports the Company s
product lines or that IBM s products will be available to the Company on a
timely basis.

RAPID GROWTH OF THE COMPANY.  The Company is growing at a rapid pace, both
internally and through acquisitions.  The Company s ability to compete
effectively and to manage future growth, if any, also will depend on its ability
to implement and improve operational, financial and management information
systems on a timely basis.  The Company's continued success and profitability
partly depends on its ability to continue to improve its infrastructure to keep
pace with this growth in its business activities.

CHANGES IN THE BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRIES.  The Company s primary
market for its products consists of approximately 8,800 commercial banks in the
United States.  The number of commercial banks in the United States has
decreased, and will continue to decrease due to the increasing consolidation of
banks around the country.  While the Company to date has generally profited from
this consolidation trend, over the long term the Company s growth could be
affected by the shrinking pool of bank customers.  Due to  challenges posed to
the financial services industry by the year 2000 calendar change and a
regulatory environment which discourages software and hardware changes in the
last half of 1999, there has been an industry-wide decrease in the sale and
installation of core systems.  This slowdown could have a significant short-term
impact on the Company s growth.

YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE.  The Company provides integrated computer systems for in-
house and service bureau data processing to banks and other financial
institutions.  Failure by the Company in making its proprietary software systems
Year 2000 ( Y2K ) compliant would have a material adverse effect on its
business.  The Company has completed its assessment of its proprietary mission
critical and non-mission critical systems and tested (including customer
testing) for Y2K compliance.  The Company believes the products it currently
sells and its internal systems are Y2K compliant.

Notwithstanding the Company s Y2K compliance efforts to date, Y2K compliance is
dependent on many factors, some of which are not completely within JHA's
control.  The Company has received Y2K disclosures prepared by its principal
vendors indicating that they will be Y2K compliant in all material respects.
The Company has developed and continuously updates contingency plans should any
vendor experience Y2K-related problems.  Should the systems of one or more
significant vendors or suppliers fail to achieve Y2K compliance, the Company s
business and financial condition could be adversely affected.

The Company believes that it has and will continue to meet Y2K compliance
commitments using existing resources, without incurring significant incremental
expenses.  Although the Company does not maintain accounting records that
separately identify all of the costs associated with its Y2K activities, it is
estimated that the total cost has not and will not be material to the Company s
financial statements.






                                OTHER INFORMATION

SUBSIDIARIES
From July 1, 1996 through June 30, 1999, the Company has had the following
subsidiaries and affiliates:


CORPORATE HISTORY

JHA was incorporated in Missouri in 1977 and was privately held until November
1985 when it sold 725,000 shares of its common stock to the public (along with
375,000 shares sold by stockholders).  JHA also reincorporated in Delaware at
that time.  The Company became subject to periodic reporting and certain other
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a result of that initial
public stock offering.  The common stock was then qualified for quotation on the
National Market System of the NASDAQ interdealer quotation system.  The
Company's stock symbol is JKHY.

The Company paid a 50% stock dividend March 3, 1992,  March 8, 1993, and March
13, 1997.  It also paid a 33 1/3% stock dividend March 10, 1994.  These,
combined with new shares issued under stock options exercised and shares issued
to purchase businesses, have increased the total number of shares of common
stock outstanding to 20,117,855 as of August 17, 1999.

EMPLOYEES
As of August 17, 1999 the Company had 982 full-time employees.  The Company's
employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement and there have
been no labor-related work stoppages.  The Company considers its employee
relations to be good.




ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

The Company owns approximately 132 acres located in the town of Monett, MO on
which it maintains five existing office buildings and three maintenance and
storage buildings.  The Company also owns buildings in Houston, TX, Allen, TX,
and Angola, IN.  Office space owned totals approximately 197,000 square feet.
Leased office facilities in various cities in the United States total
approximately 140,000 square feet.

The Company owns five aircraft which are utilized for business purposes.  Many
of the Company's customers are located in communities which do not have easily
accessible commercial airline service.  The Company uses its airplanes in
connection with installation, maintenance and sales of its systems.
Transportation costs for installation and other customer services are billed to
the Company's customers.  The Company leases property, which includes real
estate, a hangar, and related facilities at the Monett, MO municipal airport.
In addition, JHA leases a smaller plane for shorter flights and fewer
passengers.

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

As in prior years, the Company is subject to various routine legal proceedings
and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company's management
does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of
operations or cash flows.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

The Company's common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market and is
quoted on the NASDAQ - National Market System under the symbol  JKHY .  The
following table shows the reported closing sales prices for the common stock
during the last two fiscal years.  Prices and cash dividends have been adjusted
for stock dividends as appropriate.

                                    FISCAL 1999
                   HIGH                        LOW

                                   First Quarter      $50.25         $34.75
                                   Second Quarter      55.00          30.38
                                   Third Quarter       50.13          32.00
                                   Fourth Quarter      40.75          26.44

                                    Fiscal 1998


                                   First Quarter      $30.25         $22.00
                                   Second Quarter      28.13          22.75
                                   Third Quarter       36.75          24.75
                                   Fourth Quarter      38.88          29.00

Cash dividends of  $.055 per share were paid on September 23, 1997 and December
9, 1997.  Cash dividends of  $.065 per share were paid on March 12, 1998, May
27, 1998, September 24, 1998 and December 10, 1998.  Cash dividends of $.08 per
share were paid on March 10, 1999 and May 20, 1999.  Further, a cash dividend of
$.08 per share was declared on August 25, 1999, payable September 23, 1999 to
stockholders of record on September 7, 1999.

The Company established a practice of paying quarterly dividends at the end of
fiscal year 1990.  Payment of dividends will continue to be at the discretion of
the Board of Directors and will depend, among other factors, upon the earnings,
capital requirements, and operating and financial condition of the Company.  The
Company does not foresee any changes in its dividend practices in the immediate
future.

As of September 1, 1999, there were 11,860 holders of the Company's common
stock.  On that same date the last sale price of the common shares as reported
on NASDAQ was $40.16 per share.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

                       Selected Financial Information (A)
                  (In Thousands, Except Per Share Information)

Notes:

(A)   The selected financial information has been restated to reflect the
      acquisition of Peerless Group, Inc., ( Peerless ) which was accounted for
      as a pooling of interests and finalized December 16, 1998.  Therefore, all
      periods have been adjusted to reflect the acquisition as if it had
      occurred at the beginning of the earliest period reported.

(1)   Gross revenue includes software licensing and installation revenues;
      support revenues; and hardware sales; less sales returns and allowances.

(2)   Losses from discontinued operations are reported as such from the
      appropriate date.

(3)   Per share data have been adjusted to reflect the stock dividends paid in
      prior years and are the diluted numbers required by FASB 128.

(4)   Long-term debt relates to Peerless.



ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
FINANCIAL CONDITION

                              RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Introduction - All of the revenues (and costs and expenses) in the statements of
income relate to JHA's continuing operations, i.e., the installation and support
of banking software systems that JHA developed and the marketing of the JHA
software along with computer hardware manufactured by others to provide a
complete data processing system for in-house or outsourced operations in finan-
cial institutions.

The Company established a Year 2000 (Y2K) Committee.  This Committee prepared a
documented, systematic approach (the Y2K Plan) to review all products and
internal systems for Y2K compliance.  The Company s Board of Directors reviewed
and approved the Y2K Plan as required by the banking regulators of all service
bureau providers.  The Company has completed its assessment of its proprietary,
mission critical and non-mission critical systems and tested (including customer
testing) for Y2K compliance.  The Company believes the products it currently
sells and its internal systems are Y2K compliant.  Although the Company does not
maintain accounting records that separately identify all of the costs associated
with its Y2K activities, it is estimated that the total cost has not and will
not be material to the Company s financial statements.

Total revenues, presented in the statements of income, include software
licensing and installation revenues; maintenance/support and services revenues;
and hardware sales which includes revenues from the sale of forms and supplies.

Business operations for fiscal years 1999 and 1998 continue to reflect JHA's
success in its market niche.  JHA s approach of expanding its product and
service offerings to provide a top quality, comprehensive data processing
installation for its customers helps to drive its success.  Results of
operations for JHA's banking system business in each of the last two fiscal
years are discussed separately below.

The comparisons reflect the restated numbers for the Peerless acquisition which
was accounted for as a pooling of interests.  Prior periods have been restated
to reflect the acquisition as if it had occurred at the beginning of the
earliest period reported.

FISCAL YEAR 1999 AS COMPARED TO 1998

REVENUE - The Company continued significant growth with each major component of
revenue contributing to the record $184.5 million, - a 29% increase over FY
98. Continued demand for the Company s core products and related hardware was a
driving force in the revenue growth.  Sales of ancillary products and services,
which, are primarily provided to customers utilizing the core products provided
a significant amount of revenue during the year.  Acquisitions, electronic
transaction fees, service bureau, Internet banking, form sales and customer
support fees all contributed to the significant growth in total revenues.

COST OF SALES - Cost of sales increased 30%, reflecting the strong revenue
growth.  Cost of hardware increased 21% compared to the 18% increase in revenue
due to product mix of hardware sold.  Cost of services increased 40% compared to
a 38% increase in the related components of revenue.

GROSS PROFIT - Gross profit increased 29%, which is consistent with the revenue
growth.  Minor changes in product mix helped to maintain a gross margin of 46%,
which is consistent with FY  98.

OPERATING EXPENSES - The 18% increase in operating expenses reflects
efficiencies recognized by the overall growth of the Company compared to the
increase in gross profit.  The selling and marketing decrease of 8% reflects the
change in product mix with a higher percentage of revenues being generated by
non-commission sources, such as services relating to service bureau, electronic
transaction fees and customer support fees.  Research and development costs
increased 22%, which were directly related to continued development and
refinement of new and existing products.  General and administrative costs
increased by 50%, supporting the overall growth of the Company and acquisitions,
which excluding one time acquisition costs for the Peerless transaction of
$2,200,000, these costs increased 30% which is reflective of the increase in
revenues.

OTHER INCOME - Other income rose 16% over last year, primarily due to the
increased amount of invested funds throughout the current year compared to last
year.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - The Company incurred a $758,000 loss from discontinued
operations, a  $90,000 increase compared to last year.  The Company continues to
honor prior commitments to existing customers and anticipates final resolution
regarding its discontinued operation by third quarter fiscal 2000.  Adjustments
have been made to the carrying value of the discontinued operations to its
current estimated net realizable value.

Fiscal Year 1998 As Compared to 1997

REVENUE  - The Company continued great strides forward with each major component
contributing to the record $142.5 million, - a 18% increase.  Increased demand
for the Company s flagship products continued to be a driving force in the
revenue growth.  Acquisitions, electronic transaction fees, service bureau,
forms sales and customer support fees also contributed to the significant growth
with increases at similar levels.

COST OF SALES - Cost of sales increased 12%, significantly less than the rate of
revenue growth due to the product mix.  Cost of hardware increased 8% while cost
of services increased 17%.

GROSS PROFIT - Gross profit increased 26%, significantly higher than the revenue
increase due to product mix.  This change helped to increase the gross margin at
46% compared to 43% in FY  97.

OPERATING EXPENSES - The 21% increase in operating expenses was favorable when
compared to the gross profit increase.  The selling and marketing increase of
18% was directly related to the increase in revenues.  Research and development
costs increased 38% which is directly related to the development of new
products.  General and administrative expenses increased 21%, supporting the
overall growth of the Company and acquisitions.

OTHER INCOME - Other income rose 97% over last year, primarily due to the
increased amount of  invested funds throughout the year.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS - The Company incurred a $668,000 loss from discontinued
operations, a $218,000 increase compared to last year.  Due to a planned sale
not closing within the expected timeframe, the Company is honoring commitments
to customers by providing support and maintenance.


                               FINANCIAL CONDITION

Liquidity - JHA's liquidity position (cash plus short-term investments minus
working capital borrowings) at June 30, 1999, decreased significantly to
$9,887,000 versus $27,900,000 last year.  The Company generated significantly
higher cash flows from operations, but the additional outlays for capital
expenditures (some of which resulted from acquisitions) and dividends decreased
the Company s liquidity position to its current level.  Working capital
decreased significantly from $35,123,000 last year to $22,176,000 in the current
year primarily due to capital expenditures.

The Company believes its liquid assets on hand and those generated from
operations are sufficient to meet its cash requirements for FY '00.  Cash and
investments are expected to increase during the first quarter of FY '00 as the
annual software maintenance billings in trade receivables at June 30, 1999, are
collected.  The Company expects to utilize its $8,000,000 credit line minimally
for operations during the next fiscal year.

Capital Requirements and Resources - JHA generally uses existing resources and
funds generated from operations to meet its capital requirements.  Capital
expenditures of $38,819,000 were made for purchase and expansion of facilities
and additional equipment to provide for the Company's current and future growth.
The most significant individual outlays were the acquisition of the Peerless
facility in Allen, TX and for upgrades and additions to the corporate aircraft.
The Company has no long-term debt and anticipates capital expenditures could
approach $25,000,000 during the next fiscal year.  There will also be an
expenditure of  $50,000,000 for the purchase of the community banking division
of BancTec, Inc.  These will be paid with funds from operations and proceeds
from a revolving line of credit obtained from a commercial lender.  (See Note 13
to the consolidated financial statements).

Subsequent to June 30, 1999, the Company's Board of Directors declared a cash
dividend of $.08 per share on its common stock payable on September 23, 1999, to
stockholders of record as of September 7, 1999.  Current funds from operations
are adequate for this purpose.  The Board has indicated that it plans to
continue paying dividends so long as the Company's financial picture continues
to be favorable.

Forward Looking Statements

The Management s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition, and the discussion under  Year 2000 Compliance  (included in Item 1),
contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities
laws.  Actual results are subject to risks and uncertainties, including both
those specific to the Company and those specific to the industry, which could
cause results to differ materially from those contemplated.  The risks and
uncertainties include, but are not limited to, third-party or Company failures
to achieve timely, effective remediation of the Year 2000 issues, general
economic conditions, actions of competitors, regulatory actions, changes in
legislation and technology changes.  Undue reliance should not be placed on the
forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K.
The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-
looking statements.


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVES AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market
prices, interest rates, indices, volatilities, correlations or other market
factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial
instrument or group of financial instruments.  The Company is currently exposed
to credit risk (on credit extended to customers) and interest risk (on
investments in U.S. government securities).  The Company actively monitors these
risks through a variety of control procedures involving senior management.
Based on the controls in place, creditworthiness of the customer base and the
relative size of these financial instruments, management believes the risk
associated with these instruments at June 30, 1999, will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial position or results of
operations.


ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                          Index to Financial Statements


Independent Auditors' Report...................................13


Financial Statements:

           Consolidated Statements of Income,
           Years Ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and
           1997................................................14

           Consolidated Balance Sheets,
           June 30, 1999 and
           1998................................................15

           Consolidated Statements of Changes
           in Stockholders' Equity, Years Ended
           June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997........................16

           Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,
           Years Ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and
           1997................................................17

           Notes to Consolidated Financial State
           ments...............................................18

Financial Statement Schedules:

There are no schedules included because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

Supplementary Data:

The information required by this item is contained under the caption Quarterly
Financial Information on page 18 of the 1999 Annual Report.  Such information is
hereby incorporated by reference.


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT




To the Board of Directors of
   Jack Henry & Associates, Inc.:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Jack Henry &
Associates, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the "Company")  as of June 30, 1999 and 1998,
and  the related consolidated statements of income,  stockholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 1999.  These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. and
Subsidiaries  at June 30, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 1999
in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.




/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP




August 23, 1999 (September 8, 1999, as to Note 13)
St. Louis, Missouri







                 JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                     (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                 JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                 (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                 JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
           CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                 (In Thousands, Except Share and Per Share Data)




See notes to consolidated financial statements.






                 JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In Thousands)

                                                          YEAR ENDED JUNE 30,
                                                    1999        1998       1997
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
   Income from continuing operations             $ 32,526    $ 23,950   $ 18,269
   Adjustments to reconcile income from continuing
    operations to cash from operating activities
   Depreciation and amortization                    7,858       6,325      5,179
   Provision for deferred income taxes                221         478        322
   Other                                              157          89         87
   Changes in:
     Trade receivables                             (8,621)    (11,859)   (8,065)
     Prepaid expenses and other                    (5,795)     (3,167)   (1,742)
     Accounts payable                              (3,474)      2,073       241
     Accrued expenses                               2,509          81     2,535
     Income taxes                                     827         872         -
     Deferred revenues                             11,568       7,625     3,088

     Net cash from continuing operations         $ 37,776    $ 26,467  $ 19,914

CASH FLOWS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS          $   (608)   $ (1,075) $   (819)

CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
   Capital expenditures                          (38,819)     (9,915)   (13,701)
   Purchases of investments                       (6,708)     (3,177)    (5,887)
   Proceeds from sales of investments              3,100       5,800      3,002
   Other assets                                        -           -     (2,500)
   Purchases of customer contracts                (7,105)          -        (33)
    Computer software developed/purchased           (867)       (281)      (191)
   Acquisition costs, net of cash acquired        (5,905)     (1,046)      (282)
    Other, net                                      (241)       (346)       (12)

      Net cash from investing activities        $(56,545)    $(8,965)  $(19,604)

CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
   Proceeds from issuance of common stock
    upon exercise of stock options              $  3,267     $ 1,463   $  1,532
   Proceeds from sale of common stock                312         201     10,595
   Dividends paid                                 (5,688)     (4,528)    (3,631)
   Principal payments on notes payable                 -           -     (3,540)

   Purchase of treasury stock                         (5)          -     (5,444)
   Proceeds from sale of treasury stock                5           -      5,646

      Net cash from financing activities        $ (2,109)   $ (2,864)   $ 5,158

NET (DECREASE) INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH
   EQUIVALENTS                                  $(21,486)   $ 13,563    $ 4,649

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF YEAR      24,671      11,108      6,459

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR          $  3,185    $ 24,671   $ 11,108



See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                 JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1:  NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY
Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. ("JHA" or the "Company") is a computer software
company which has developed several banking software systems.  The Company's
revenues are predominately earned by marketing those systems to financial
institutions nationwide along with the computer equipment (hardware) and by
providing the conversion and software customization services necessary for a
financial institution to install a JHA software system.  JHA also provides
continuing support and maintenance services to customers using the system.

CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of JHA and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries: Jack Henry International, Ltd., BankVision Software,
Ltd., CommLink Corp., G.G. Pulley & Associates, Inc., Vertex, Inc., Hewlett
Computer Services, Inc., Digital Data Services, Inc., and Peerless Group, Inc.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

The financial statements for all periods presented have been restated to include
Peerless Group, Inc. ( Peerless ) which was acquired on December 16, 1998.  The
acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests and therefore all
periods have been adjusted to reflect the acquisition as if it had occurred at
the beginning of the earliest period reported (see Note 12).

USE OF ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION
The Company's various sources of revenue and the methods of revenue recognition
are as follows:

     SOFTWARE LICENSING FEES - Initial licensing fees are recognized upon
delivery of the
  unmodified software.  Monthly software usage charges are recognized ratably
over                                           the contract period.
     SOFTWARE INSTALLATION AND RELATED SERVICES - Fees for these services are
     recognized as the services are performed on hourly contracts and at
     completion on fixed-fee                                      contracts.
     MAINTENANCE/SUPPORT FEES - Fees from these contracts are recognized ratably
       over the life of the contract.
     HARDWARE - Revenues from sales of hardware are recognized upon direct
     shipment by the supplier to the Company s customers.  Hardware maintenance
     revenues are also included.  Costs of items purchased and remarketed are
     reported as cost of hardware in cost of sales.

DEFERRED REVENUES
Deferred revenues consist primarily of prepaid annual software and hardware
maintenance fees.  Nonrefundable software and hardware deposits are also
reflected as deferred revenues.

COMPUTER SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
The Company capitalizes new product development costs incurred from the point at
which technological feasibility has been established through the point at which
customer installations begin.  The capitalized costs, which include salaries and
related expenses, equipment/facility costs and other direct expenses, are
amortized to expense based on estimated revenues over the estimated product life
(generally five years).






INCOME PER SHARE
Per share information is based on the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the year.  Stock options have been included in the
calculation of income per share to the extent they are dilutive.  Reconciliation
from basic to diluted weighted average shares outstanding is the dilutive effect
of outstanding stock options.

CASH EQUIVALENTS
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of
three months or less to be cash equivalents.

INVESTMENTS
The Company invests its cash not required for current operations primarily in
U.S. government securities.

Debt securities for which the Company has the positive intent and ability to
hold until maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and are carried at
historical cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of
discounts.  Premiums and discounts are amortized and accreted, respectively, to
interest income using the level-yield method over the period to maturity.
Interest on investments in debt securities is included in income when earned.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment is stated at cost and depreciated principally using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intangible assets consist primarily of excess purchase price over the fair value
of net assets acquired, software maintenance/support contracts and marketing
agreements acquired in business acquisitions.  The amounts are amortized over an
estimated economic benefit period, generally five to fifteen years using the
straight-line method.

The Company reviews long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles for
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances have indicated that the
carrying amount of its assets might not be recoverable.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The Company has adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No.
130,  Reporting Comprehensive Income,  which established standards for the
reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components.  Comprehensive
income for each of the years in the period ended June 30, 1999, approximates the
Company s net income.

BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company adopted SFAS No. 131,  Disclosure About Segments of an Enterprise
and Related Information,  which establishes standards for the disclosure
required related to segments of an enterprise.

The Company is a leading provider of financial data processing systems for
financial institutions.  In accordance with SFAS No. 131, the Company s
operations are classified as one business segment.  The financial performance
and productivity of the Company is monitored as a single unit as all products
and services relate to one line of business, providing comprehensive services
for data processing to the financial institution industry.  Revenue by type of
product and service is presented on the face of the statements of income.

INCOME TAXES
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the tax effects of
differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and
liabilities.  A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets
if it is likely that a deferred tax asset will not be realized.






RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In October, 1997, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the American
Institute of Public Accountants ( AcSEC ) issued Statement of Position
( SOP )97-2,  Software Revenue Recognition .  The Company adopted SOP 97-2
effective July 1, 1998.  SOP 97-2 generally requires revenue earned on software
arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based
on the relative fair values of the elements.  In March 1998, AcSEC issued SOP
98-4,  Deferral of the Effective Date of a Provision of SOP 97-2, Software
Recognition , which deferred portions of SOP 97-2 for one year.  Revenues in
fiscal year 1999 from the sales of software are recognized in accordance with
the enacted portions of SOP 97-2 and the Company s management anticipates that
the adoption of SOP 98-4 in fiscal year 2000 will not have a material impact on
the Company s result of operations.

RECLASSIFICATION
Where appropriate, prior years financial information has been reclassified to
conform with the current year s presentation.  The statements of cash flows are
prepared using the indirect method, which represents a reclassification of the
prior year s presentation using  the direct method.


NOTE 2:  INVESTMENTS

The amortized cost and approximate fair values of held-to-maturity securities at
June 30, 1999, and 1998 is included in the following table.  Fair market values
of these securities did not differ significantly from amortized cost due to the
nature of the securities and minor interest rate fluctuations during the
periods.




NOTE 3:  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Fair values for held-to-maturity securities are based on quoted market prices
(See Note 2).  For all other financial instruments, including amounts receivable
and payable, fair values approximate carrying value.


NOTE 4:  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

The classification of property and equipment, together with their estimated
useful lives is as follows:
                                            (In Thousands)
                                               June 30,          Estimated
                                          1999          1998    useful life

Land                                   $ 2,699      $   699
Land Improvements                        1,154          708     5-20 years
Buildings                               16,056        5,236    25-30 years
Equipment and furniture                 34,500       24,091      5-8 years
Aircraft                                18,957       10,565     8-10 years
Construction in process and deposits    11,174        2,555
                                       $84,540      $43,853
Less accumulated depreciation           18,945       12,936
Property and equipment, net            $65,595      $30,917



NOTE 5:  OTHER ASSETS


Following is an analysis of intangible assets:

                                                             (In Thousands)

Computer software includes the unamortized cost of software products developed
or acquired by the Company which were required to be capitalized by generally
accepted accounting principles.  The costs are amortized over an estimated
economic benefit period, generally five years.  Following is an analysis of the
computer software costs:

                                                                  (In Thousands)


NOTE 6:  LINE OF CREDIT

The Company has a line of credit with First State Bank of Purdy at June 30,
1999, for $8 million as described below.  It also had a line of credit with the
same bank at June 30, 1998.  There were no amounts outstanding under the line at
June 30, 1999, or 1998.  Utilization of the line was minimal during each of the
last three fiscal years.

The line of credit is payable upon demand or March 15, 2000, and is secured by
$1 million of investments with the remainder unsecured.  Borrowings under the
line bear interest at a floating prime rate, 7.75% at June 30, 1999.



NOTE 7: INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes on income from continuing operations consists of
the following:

                                                           (In Thousands)



The tax effects of temporary differences related to deferred taxes shown on the
balance sheets were:

                                                   (In Thousands)



The following analysis reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to the
effective income tax rates reflected above:


Net operating less carryforwards of $847,00 (from acquisitions) and capital loss
carryforwards of $57,000 expire through the year 2014.  The Company paid income
taxes of $13,920,000, $10,481,000 and $8,343,000 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.


NOTE 8: INDUSTRY AND SUPPLIER CONCENTRATIONS

The Company sells its products to banks and financial institutions throughout
the United States and generally does not require collateral.  Adequate reserves
(which are insignificant at June 30, 1999, and 1998) are maintained for
potential credit losses.

In addition, the Company purchases most of its computer equipment (hardware) and
related maintenance for resale in relation to installation of JHA software
systems from one supplier.  There are a limited number of hardware suppliers for
these required materials.

NOTE 9:  STOCK OPTION PLANS

The Company has two stock option plans:  the 1996 Stock Option Plan ("1996 SOP")
and the Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan ("NSOP").

The 1996 SOP was adopted by the Company October 29, 1996, for its employees.
This plan  replaced the terminating 1987 SOP.  Terms of the options are
determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors when granted
and for options outstanding include vesting periods up to 2 1/2 years.  Shares
of common stock are reserved for issuance under this plan at the time of each
grant which must be at or above fair market value at the grant date.  The
options terminate upon termination of employment, three months after retirement,
one year after death or ten years after grant.  As of June 30, 1999, there were
1,132,000 shares available for future grants under the plan from the original
2,250,000 shares approved by the stockholders.

The NSOP was adopted by the Company on October 31, 1995, for its outside
directors.  Options are exercisable beginning six months after grant at a price
equal to 100% of the fair market value of the stock at the grant date.  The
options terminate when director status ends, upon surrender of the option or ten
years after grant.  A total of 300,000 shares of common stock have been reserved
for issuance under this plan with a maximum of 75,000 for each director.

A summary of the activity of all of the Company's stock option plans is:



Following is an analysis of stock options outstanding (O) and exercisable (E) as
of June 30, 1999:
RANGE OF EXERCISE                     WEIGHTED-AVERAGE     WEIGHTED-AVERAGE
   PRICES                 SHARES   REMAINING CONTRACTUAL    EXERCISE PRICE
                                      LIFE IN YEARS




As permitted under SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,  the
Company has elected to continue to follow Accounting Principles Board ( APB )
No. 25  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  in accounting for stock-based
awards to employees.  Under APB No. 25, the Company generally recognizes no
compensation expense with respect to such awards, since the exercise price of
the stock options awarded are equal to the fair market value of the underlying
security on the grant date.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
SFAS No. 123 for awards granted after December 31, 1994, as if the Company had
accounted for its stock-based awards to employees under the fair value method of
SFAS No. 123.  The fair value of the Company s stock-based awards to employees
was estimated as of the date of the grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing
model.


The Company s pro forma information for continuing operations follows:

                                                      Year ended June 30,

                                                   1999       1998        1997


Assumptions:

NOTE 10: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

Stock Purchase Plan - The Company established an employee stock purchase plan on
January 1, 1996.  The plan allows the majority of employees the opportunity to
directly purchase shares of the Company.  Purchase prices for all participants
are based on the closing bid price on the last business day of the month.

401(k) Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) - The Company has a 401(k)
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the "Plan ) covering substantially all employees
of the Company and its subsidiaries.  As of July 1, 1987, the plan was amended
and restated to include most of the existing ESOP provisions and to add salary
reduction contributions allowed under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code and to require employer matching contributions.  The Company has the option
of making a discretionary contribution to the Plan, however, none has been made
for any of the three most recent fiscal years.  The Company assumed
responsibility for the Peerless Employee 401(k) Plan as of acquisition date (see
Note 12), and will merge it into the Plan as of December 31, 1999.  The total
expense related to the Plans was $1,321,000, $952,000, and $723,000 for 1999,
1998, and 1997, respectively.


NOTE 11:  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

In the last quarter of 1996, the Company discontinued the operations of its
BankVision Software, Ltd. subsidiary ( BankVision ) which it planned to sell by
December 31, 1996.  The estimated loss on disposal recorded in 1996 consisted of
the following:


The planned sale of BankVision was not concluded as of June 30, 1999.  Thus,
additional losses of $758,000, $668,000 and $450,000 were reported for the
discontinued BankVision unit for the years ended June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.  Several issues which were raised during negotiations for the sale
of BankVision caused a delay in the Company s plan for disposing of this
subsidiary.  These  issues have now been addressed.  The Company is currently
honoring commitments to existing customers and anticipates final resolution
regarding its discontinued operations by January 31, 2000.  The Company has
notified customers that maintenance contracts will not be renewed upon normal
expiration.  (See Note 13).

NOTE 12:  BUSINESS ACQUISITIONS

POOLING OF INTERESTS TRANSACTIONS

The Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Peerless on December 16,
1998, for approximately 827,000 shares of Company stock.

The Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Financial Software Systems,
Inc. on September 2, 1997, for $600,000 in Company stock.

The Company acquired all the outstanding shares of G. G. Pulley & Associates,
Inc. on July 1, 1997, for $5,000,000 in Company stock.

The Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Liberty Banking Services,
Inc. on September 1, 1996, for $2,000,000 in Company stock.

Prior year financial statements have been restated for the effect of the pooling
transactions.  The following table presents a reconciliation of revenue and net
income previously reported by the Company and Peerless to those presented in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements.




PURCHASE TRANSACTIONS

On November 25, 1998, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Digital
Data Services, Inc. common stock for $2,750,000 in cash.

On July 1, 1998, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Hewlett
Computer Services, Inc. common stock for $2,250,000 in cash.

On December 12, 1997, the Company acquired all the outstanding shares of Vertex,
Inc. common stock for $1,905,000 in Company stock and $1,095,000 in cash.

The consolidated operations of the Company include the operations of the
acquirees from their acquisition dates for acquisitions accounted for as
purchases.  Pro Forma information for acquisitions accounted for as purchases is
not presented as the impact was not material.


NOTE 13: SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On September 7, 1999, the Company completed the sale of its BankVision
subsidiary (see discontinued operations, Note 11) for $1,000,000.  Under the
terms of the agreement, the purchaser, made a $500,000 down payment and executed
promissory notes to pay $250,000 (plus interest) in each of the next two years.
The net assets of the subsidiary, as of that date, approximately equal the sales
proceeds, and as a result, the Company expects the transaction to have minimal
effect on its financial results for fiscal year 2000.

On September 8, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of BancTec, Inc. s
community banking business, providing software, account processing capabilities
and data center operations to over 800 community banks throughout the united
States and the Caribbean.  Revenues from these acquired community banking
operations total approximately $17 million and $43 million for the six months
ended June 30, 1999 and calendar 19998, respectively.  The  total value of the
transaction was approximately $58,000,000, of which $50,000,000 was in cash and
the remainder in the assumption of certain liabilities.  The purchase price was
paid with approximately $25,000,000 cash from operations and $25,000,000
proceeds from a line of credit with a commercial lender.  The line of credit
provides for advances of up to $40,000,000, bears interest at variable LIBOR-
Based Rates and is due September 7, 2000.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III


ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

See the information under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Executive
Officers and Significant Employees" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement
which is incorporated herein by reference.*

*Incorporated by reference pursuant to Rule 12b-23 and General Instruction G(3)
to Form   10-K.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

See the information under the captions "Executive Compensation"; "Compensation
Committee Report"; and "Company Performance" in the Company's definitive Proxy
Statement which is incorporated herein by reference.*


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

See the information under the captions "Stock Ownership of Certain Stockholders
and "Election of Directors" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement which is
incorporated herein by reference.*

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.




PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:

  (1)  Financial Statements:

The following Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries and the Reports of Independent Accountants thereon appear under
Item 8 of this Report:

     Independent Auditors  Report.
  -  Consolidated Statements of Income for the Years Ended June 30, 1999, 1998
and
  1997.
  -  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 1999 and 1998.
  -  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' Equity for the Years
Ended
  June 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997.
  -  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Years Ended June 30, 1999,
     1998 and 1997.
  -  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

  (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:

The following Financial Statement Schedules filed as part of this Report appear
under Item 8 of this Report:

There are no schedules included because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes thereto.


(2)  Plan of acquisition

  2.1     Agreement for purchase and sale of assets regarding the acquisition of
          certain assets from BancTec, Inc. dated September 8, 1999, attached as
          exhibit 2.1 to the Company s current report on Form 8-K dated
          September 20, 1999.

(3)  Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws

     Except as otherwise specifically noted, the following documents are
incorporated by reference as exhibits hereto pursuant to Rule 12b-32:

  3.1     Certificate of Incorporation attached as Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s
          Registration Statement on Form S-1, filed November 17, 1985.
  3.2     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation attached as
          Exhibit 4 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
          Quarter ended December 31, 1987.
  3.3     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation attached as
          Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year
          Ended June 30, 1993.
  3.4     Amended and Restated Bylaws attached as Exhibit A to the Company s
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended March 31, 1996.
  3.5     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation attached as
          Exhibit 3.5 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year
          Ended June 30, 1997.
  3.6     Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation attached as
          Exhibit 3.6 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year
          Ended June 30, 1998.

  (10) Material Contracts

          Except as otherwise noted, the following Material Contracts are
incorporated herein by reference as Exhibits hereto pursuant to Rule 12b-32:

          10.1  The Company's 1987 Stock Option Plan, as amended as of October
                27, 1992, attached as Exhibit 19.1 to the Company's Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September 30, 1992.

          10.2  The Company's Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, as amended as of
                October 26, 1993, attached as Exhibit 19.2 to the Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended
                September 30, 1993.
          10.3  The Company's 1995 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, attached as
                Exhibit 10.3 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                the Year Ended June 30, 1996.

          10.4  IBM Remarketer Agreement dated May 21, 1992, attached as Exhibit
                10.1 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                Year Ended June 30, 1992.

          10.5  Form of Indemnity Agreement which has been entered into as of
                August 27, 1996, between the Company and each of its Directors,
                attached as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company s Annual Report on Form
                10-K for the Year Ended June 30, 1996.

          10.6  The Company s 1996 Stock Option Plan, attached as Exhibit 10.9
                to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year Ended
                June 30, 1997.

          10.7  The Agreement and Plan of Merger regarding acquisition of
                Peerless Group, Inc., dated August 18, 1998, attached as Exhibit
                10.7 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Year
                Ended June 30, 1998.

          10.11 Line of Credit Agreement dated September 7, 1999, between the
                Company and Commerce Bank, N.A., attached as exhibit 10.11 to
                the Company s current report on Form 8-K dated September 20,
                1999.

  (21)    Subsidiaries of the Registrant

          A list of the Company's subsidiaries is attached hereto as Exhibit
          21.

  (23)    Consents of Experts and Counsel

          Consent of Independent Auditors  is attached hereto as Exhibit 23.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

          None.






                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized this 24th day of September,
1999.

                      JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC., Registrant

                      By /s/ Michael E. Henry

                             Michael E. Henry
                             Chairman of the Board

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

SIGNATURE                          CAPACITY                DATE

/s/ Michael E. Henry               Chairman of the         September 24, 1999
Michael E. Henry                   Board and Chief
                                   Executive Officer
                                   and Director

/s/ Michael R. Wallace             President, Chief        September 24, 1999
Michael R. Wallace                 Operating Officer
                                   and Director


/s/ John W. Henry                  Vice Chairman, Senior   September 24, 1999
John W. Henry                      Vice President and
                                    Director


/s/ Jerry D. Hall                  Executive Vice          September 24, 1999
Jerry D. Hall                      President and
                                   Director


/s/ Terry W. Thompson              Vice President,         September 24, 1999
Terry W. Thompson                  Treasurer and
                                   Chief Financial
                                   Officer
                                   (Principal
                                   Accounting
                                   Officer)


/s/ James J. Ellis                 Director                September 24, 1999
James J. Ellis


/s/ Burton O. George               Director                September 24, 1999
Burton O. George


/s/ George R. Curry                Director                September 24, 1999
George R. Curry










                                                        Exhibit 21




                          JACK HENRY & ASSOCIATES, INC.
                                MONETT, MO 65708



LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES AT 6/30/99


Jack Henry International, Ltd.
U.S. Virgin Islands


BankVision Software, Ltd.
Delaware
G.G. Pulley, Inc.
New Mexico


Vertex, Inc.
Delaware


Peerless Group, Inc
Delaware


CommLink Corp.
Delaware









                                                  Exhibit 23


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS  CONSENT


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements of
the Jack Henry & Associates, Inc. 1996 Stock Option Plan on Form S-8 (File Nos.
33-65231, 33-65251 and 33-16989) of our report dated August 23, 1999 (September
8, 1999, as to note 13)  appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Jack
Henry & Associates, Inc. for the year ended June 30, 1999.


/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP




St Louis, Missouri
September 24, 1999


