10-K


w79861e10vk.htm

10-K

e10vk

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, DC 20549

FORM 10-K

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ____ to _______________

Commission file number 1-12378

NVR, Inc.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Virginia

54-1394360

(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)

(IRS Employer Identification Number)

11700 Plaza America Drive, Suite 500

Reston, Virginia


(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(703) 956-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common stock, par value $0.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section
13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files). Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K (§229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III
of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated
filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large
accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12-2 of the
Exchange Act. (Check One):

Large accelerated filer

þ

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do not check if a Smaller Reporting Company)

Smaller Reporting Company

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of
the Act). Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of NVR, Inc. on June 30,
2010, the last business day of NVR, Inc.’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was
approximately $3,693,820,000.

As of
February 21, 2011 there were 5,893,203 total shares of common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Proxy Statement of NVR, Inc. to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on or prior to
April 30, 2011 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

INDEX

Page

PART I

Item 1.

Business


Item 1A.

Risk Factors


Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments


Item 2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item 4.

[Removed and Reserved]


Executive Officers of the Registrant


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrants’ Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data


Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures


Item 9B.

Other Information


PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance


Item 11.

Executive Compensation


Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence


Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules



PART I

Item 1.

Business.

General

NVR, Inc. (“NVR”) was formed in 1980 as NVHomes, Inc. Our primary business is the
construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings. To
more fully serve customers of our homebuilding operations, we also operate a mortgage banking and
title services business. We conduct our homebuilding activities directly. Our mortgage banking
operations are operated primarily through a wholly owned subsidiary, NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc.
(“NVRM”). Unless the context otherwise requires, references to “NVR”, “we”, “us” or “our” include
NVR and its consolidated subsidiaries.

We are one of the largest homebuilders in the United States. While we operate in multiple
locations in fourteen states, primarily in the eastern part of the United States, approximately 37%
of our home settlements in 2010 occurred in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, MD metropolitan
areas, which accounted for 47% of our 2010 homebuilding revenues. Our homebuilding operations
include the construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium
buildings under four trade names: Ryan Homes, NVHomes, Fox Ridge Homes and Rymarc Homes. The Ryan
Homes, Fox Ridge Homes, and Rymarc Homes products are marketed primarily to first-time homeowners
and first-time move-up buyers. The Ryan Homes product is currently sold in twenty-three
metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New York, North
Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, New Jersey, Delaware, Kentucky, Indiana and Florida. The Fox Ridge
Homes product is sold solely in the Nashville, TN metropolitan area and the Rymarc Homes product is
sold solely in the Columbia, SC metropolitan area. The NVHomes product is marketed primarily to
move-up and upscale buyers and is sold in the Washington, D.C., Baltimore, MD, Philadelphia, PA and
the Maryland Eastern Shore metropolitan areas. In 2010, our average price of a settled unit was
approximately $297,100.

Historically, we generally have not engaged in land development (see discussion below on our
recent limited land development activities). Instead, we typically acquire finished building lots
at market prices from various development entities under fixed price purchase agreements (“purchase
agreements”) that require deposits that may be forfeited if we fail to perform under the purchase
agreement. The deposits required under the purchase agreements are in the form of cash or letters
of credit in varying amounts and represent a percentage, typically ranging up to 10%, of the
aggregate purchase price of the finished lots.

We believe that our lot acquisition strategy avoids the financial requirements and risks
associated with direct land ownership and land development. We may, at our option, choose for any
reason and at any time not to perform under these purchase agreements by delivering notice of our
intent not to acquire the finished lots under contract. Our sole legal obligation and economic
loss for failure to perform under these purchase agreements is limited to the amount of the deposit
pursuant to the liquidated damage provision contained within the purchase agreements. We do not
have any financial guarantees or completion obligations and we typically do not guarantee lot
purchases on a specific performance basis under these purchase agreements. None of the creditors
of any of the development entities with which we have entered these purchase agreements have
recourse to our general credit. We generally seek to maintain control over a supply of lots
believed to be suitable to meet our five-year business plan.

Our continued success is contingent upon our ability to control an adequate supply of finished
lots on which to build and on our developers’ ability to timely deliver finished lots to meet the
sales demands of our customers. However, current economic conditions and the continued downturn of
the homebuilding industry have exerted pressure on our developers’ ability to obtain acquisition
and development financing or to raise equity investments to finance land development activity,
potentially constraining our supply of finished lots. This pressure has necessitated that in
certain specific strategic circumstances we deviate from our historical lot acquisition strategy
and engage in joint venture arrangements with land developers or directly acquire raw ground
already zoned for its intended use for development. Once we acquire control of any raw ground, we
will determine whether to sell the raw parcel to a developer and enter into a fixed price purchase
agreement with the


developer to purchase the finished lots, or whether we will hire a developer to
develop the land on our behalf. While joint venture arrangements and direct land development
activity are not our preferred method of acquiring finished building lots, we may enter into
additional transactions in the future on a limited basis where there exists
a compelling strategic or prudent financial reason to do so. We expect, however, to continue to
acquire substantially all of our finished lot inventory using fixed price purchase agreements with
forfeitable deposits.

As of December 31, 2010, we controlled approximately 50,400 lots under purchase agreements
with deposits in cash and letters of credit totaling approximately $174.3 million and $6.6 million
respectively. Included in the number of controlled lots are approximately 10,300 lots for which we
have recorded a contract land deposit impairment reserve of approximately $73.5 million as of
December 31, 2010. In addition, we had an aggregate investment totaling approximately $37 million
in three separate joint venture limited liability corporations (“JVs”), through which we controlled
approximately 1,100 lots. Further, as of December 31, 2010, we directly acquired four separate raw
parcels of land, zoned for their intended use, with a current cost basis, including development
costs, of approximately $78 million that we intend to develop into approximately 890 finished lots
for use in our homebuilding operations. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements
included herein for additional information regarding JVs and land under development.

In addition to building and selling homes, we provide a number of mortgage-related services
through our mortgage banking operations. Through operations in each of our homebuilding markets,
NVRM originates mortgage loans almost exclusively for our homebuyers. NVRM generates revenues
primarily from origination fees, gains on sales of loans and title fees. NVRM sells all of the
mortgage loans it closes into the secondary markets on a servicing released basis.

Segment information for our homebuilding and mortgage banking businesses is included in Note 2
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

Current Business Environment

During 2010 the homebuilding environment continued to be negatively impacted by economic
uncertainty. The market stabilization we experienced toward the end of 2009 and into the first
quarter of 2010 was negatively impacted by the April 30, 2010 expiration of the federal homebuyer
tax credit. After April 30, 2010, new home sales experienced sharp declines, providing evidence
that rather than increasing overall demand, the tax credit may have merely accelerated existing
demand. The current home sales environment continues to be adversely impacted by high inventory
levels; low consumer confidence driven by high unemployment rates; and a highly restrictive
mortgage lending environment that has made it more difficult for our customers to obtain mortgage
financing. For additional information and analysis of recent trends in our operations and
financial condition, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Homebuilding

Products

We offer single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings with many different
basic home designs. These home designs have a variety of elevations and numerous other options.
Our homes combine traditional or colonial exterior designs with contemporary interior designs and
amenities, generally include two to four bedrooms and range from approximately 1,000 to 7,300
square feet. During 2010, the prices at which we settled homes ranged from approximately $97,000
to $1.7 million and averaged approximately $297,100. During 2009, our average price was
approximately $296,400.


Markets

Our four reportable homebuilding segments operate in the following geographic regions:

Mid Atlantic:

Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and Delaware

North East:

New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania

Mid East:

Kentucky, New York, Ohio, western Pennsylvania and Indiana

South East:

North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida and Tennessee

Further discussion of settlements, new orders and backlog activity by homebuilding reportable
segment for each of the last three years can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

Backlog

Backlog totaled 2,916 units and approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2010 compared to
backlog of 3,531 units and approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 2009. Backlog, which
represents homes sold but not yet settled with the customer, may be impacted by customer
cancellations for various reasons that are beyond our control, such as failure to obtain mortgage
financing, inability to sell an existing home, job loss, or a variety of other reasons. In any
period, a portion of the cancellations that we experience are related to new sales that occurred
during the same period, and a portion are related to sales that occurred in prior periods and
therefore appeared in the opening backlog for the current period. Expressed as the total of all
cancellations during the period as a percentage of gross sales during the period, our cancellation
rate was approximately 14%, 14% and 23% in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During 2010, 2009
and 2008, approximately 6%, 7% and 10% of a reporting quarter’s opening backlog cancelled during
the fiscal quarter, respectively. We can provide no assurance that our historical cancellation
rates are indicative of the actual cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. See “Risk
Factors” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

Construction

We utilize independent subcontractors under fixed price contracts to perform construction work
on our homes. The subcontractors’ work is performed under the supervision of our employees who
monitor quality control. We use several independent subcontractors in our various markets and we
are not dependent on any single subcontractor or on a small number of subcontractors.

Sales and Marketing

Our preferred marketing method is for customers to visit a furnished model home featuring many
built-in options and a landscaped lot. The garages of these model homes are usually converted into
temporary sales centers where alternative facades and floor plans are displayed and designs for
other models are available for review. Sales representatives are compensated predominantly on a
commission basis.

Regulation

We and our subcontractors must comply with various federal, state and local zoning, building,
environmental, advertising and consumer credit statutes, rules and regulations, as well as other
regulations and requirements in connection with our construction and sales activities. All of
these regulations have increased the cost to produce and market our products, and in some
instances, have delayed our developers’ abilities to deliver us finished lots. Counties and cities
in which we build homes have at times declared moratoriums on the issuance of building permits and
imposed other restrictions in the areas in which sewage treatment facilities and other public
facilities do not reach minimum standards. To date, restrictive zoning laws and the imposition of
moratoriums have not had a material adverse effect on our construction activities. However, in
certain markets in which we operate, we believe that our growth has been hampered by the longer
time periods necessary for our developers to obtain the necessary governmental approvals.


Competition and Market Factors

The housing industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders of varying
size, ranging from local to national in scope, some of which have greater financial resources than
we do. We also face competition from the home resale market. Our homebuilding operations compete
primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and reputation. Historically
we have been one of the market leaders in each of the markets where we build homes.

The housing industry is cyclical and is affected by consumer confidence levels, prevailing
economic conditions and interest rates. Other factors that affect the housing industry and the
demand for new homes include the availability and the cost of land, labor and materials; changes in
consumer preferences; demographic trends; and the availability of mortgage finance programs. See
“Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

We are dependent upon building material suppliers for a continuous flow of raw materials.
Whenever possible, we utilize standard products available from multiple sources. In the past, such
raw materials have been generally available to us in adequate supply.

Mortgage Banking

We provide a number of mortgage related services to our homebuilding customers through our
mortgage banking operations. Our mortgage banking operations also include separate subsidiaries
that broker title insurance and perform title searches in connection with mortgage loan closings
for which they receive commissions and fees. Because NVRM originates mortgage loans almost
exclusively for our homebuilding customers, NVRM is dependent on our homebuilding segment. In
2010, NVRM closed approximately 8,600 loans with an aggregate principal amount of approximately
$2.2 billion as compared to approximately 8,000 loans with an aggregate principal amount of
approximately $2.1 billion in 2009.

NVRM sells all of the mortgage loans it closes to investors in the secondary markets on a
servicing released basis, typically within 30 days from the loan closing. NVRM is an approved
seller/servicer for FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, VA and FHA mortgage loans.

Competition and Market Factors

NVRM’s main competition comes from national, regional, and local mortgage bankers, mortgage
brokers, thrifts and banks in each of these markets. NVRM competes primarily on the basis of
customer service, variety of products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services
and relative financing availability and costs.

Regulation

NVRM is an approved seller/servicer of FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage loans, and is
subject to all of those agencies’ rules and regulations. These rules and regulations restrict
certain activities of NVRM. NVRM is currently eligible and expects to remain eligible to
participate in such programs. In addition, NVRM is subject to regulation at the state and federal
level with respect to specific origination, selling and servicing practices.

Pipeline

NVRM’s mortgage loans in process that have not closed (“Pipeline”) at December 31, 2010 and
2009, had an aggregate principal balance of approximately $670 million and $770 million,
respectively. NVRM’s cancellation rate was approximately 29% in 2010. During 2009 and 2008,
NVRM’s loan cancellation rates were approximately 35% and 49%, respectively. We can provide no
assurance that our historical loan cancellation rates are indicative of the actual loan
cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A in this Form
10-K.


Employees

At December 31, 2010, we employed 2,822 full-time persons, of whom 1,076 were officers and
management personnel, 174 were technical and construction personnel, 580 were sales personnel, 490
were administrative personnel and 502 were engaged in various other service and labor activities.
None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we have never
experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our employee relations are good.

Available Information

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). These filings are available to the public over the
Internet at the SEC’s website at

http://www.sec.gov

. You may also read and copy any document we
file at the SEC’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please
call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

Our principal Internet website can be found at

http://www.nvrinc.com.

We make available free
of charge on or through our website, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
practicable after such material is electronically filed, or furnished, to the SEC.

Our website also includes a corporate governance section which contains our Corporate
Governance Guidelines (which includes our Directors’ Independence Standards), Code of Ethics, Board
of Directors’ Committee Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance, Nominating and
Qualified Legal Compliance Committees, Policies and Procedures for the Consideration of Board of
Director Candidates, Policies and Procedures Regarding Communications with the NVR, Inc. Board of
Directors, the Independent Lead Director and the Non-Management Directors as a group.
Additionally, amendments to and waivers from a provision of the Code of Ethics that apply to our
principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or persons
performing similar functions will be disclosed on our website.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors.

Forward-Looking Statements

Some of the statements in this Form 10-K, as well as statements made by us in periodic press
releases or other public communications, constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning
of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933,
as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Certain, but not necessarily
all, of such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking
terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” or “anticipates” or the
negative thereof or other comparable terminology. All statements other than of historical facts
are forward looking statements. Forward looking statements contained in this document include
those regarding market trends, NVR’s financial position, business strategy, the outcome of pending
litigation, projected plans and objectives of management for future operations. Such
forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that
may cause the actual results or performance of NVR to be materially different from future results,
performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such risk
factors include, but are not limited to the following: general economic and business conditions (on
both a national and regional level); interest rate changes; access to suitable financing by NVR and
NVR’s customers; competition; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by NVR
in its homebuilding operations; shortages of labor; weather related slow-downs; building
moratoriums; governmental regulation; fluctuation and volatility of stock and other financial
markets; mortgage financing availability; and other factors over which NVR has little or no
control. NVR undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.


Our business is affected by the risks generally incident to the residential construction
business, including, but not limited to:

All of these risks are discussed in detail below.

The homebuilding industry continues to experience a significant downturn. The continuation of this
slowdown could adversely affect our business and our results of operations.

The homebuilding industry has continued to experience a significant downturn as a result
of declining consumer confidence driven by an economic recession, high unemployment levels,
affordability issues and uncertainty as to the stability of home prices. Additionally, the
tightening credit markets have made it more difficult for customers to obtain financing to
purchase homes. As a result, we have experienced reduced demand for new homes. Our
cancellation rate was approximately 14% in both 2010 and 2009 and was 23% in 2008. These
ongoing market factors have also resulted in pricing pressures and in turn gross profit margin
pressure in all of our markets. A continued downturn in the homebuilding industry could result
in a material adverse effect on our sales (fewer gross sales and/or higher cancellation rates),
profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash
flows.

If the market value of our inventory or controlled lot position declines, our profit could decrease
and we may incur losses.

Inventory risk can be substantial for homebuilders. The market value of building lots and
housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing market conditions. In
addition, inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly
performing project or market. We must, in the ordinary course of our business, continuously
seek and make acquisitions of lots for expansion into new markets as well as for replacement
and expansion within our current markets, which is accomplished by us entering fixed price
purchase agreements and paying forfeitable deposits under the purchase agreement to developers
for the contractual right to acquire the lots. In the event of further adverse changes in
economic or market conditions, we may cease further building activities in communities or
restructure existing purchase agreements, resulting in forfeiture of some or all of any
remaining land contract deposit paid to the developer. Either action may result in a loss
which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, stock performance, ability to
service our debt obligations and future cash flows.

If the underwriting quality of our mortgage originations is found to be deficient, our profit could
decrease and we may incur losses.

We originate several different loan products to our customers to finance the purchase of their
home. We sell all of the loans we originate into the secondary mortgage market generally within 30
days from origination. All of the loans that we originate are underwritten to the standards and
specifications of the ultimate investor. Insofar as we underwrite our originated loans to those
standards, we bear no increased concentration of credit risk from the issuance of loans, except in
certain limited instances where early payment default occurs. In the event that a substantial
number of the loans that we have originated fall into default and the investors to whom we sold the
loan determine that we did not underwrite the loan in accordance with their requirements, we could
be required to repurchase the loans from the investor or indemnify the investor for any losses
incurred. This may result in a loss which could have a material adverse effect on our
profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows.


Because almost all of our customers require mortgage financing, the availability of suitable
mortgage financing could impair the affordability of our homes, lower demand for our products, and
limit our ability to fully deliver our backlog.

Our business and earnings depend on the ability of our potential customers to obtain
mortgages for the purchase of our homes. In addition, many of our potential customers must
sell their existing homes in order to buy a home from us. The tightening of credit standards
and the availability of suitable mortgage financing could prevent customers from buying our
homes and could prevent buyers of our customers’ homes from obtaining mortgages they need to
complete that purchase, both of which could result in our potential customers’ inability to buy
a home from us. If our potential customers or the buyers of our customers’ current homes are
not able to obtain suitable financing, the result could have a material adverse effect on our
sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future
cash flows.

If our ability to sell mortgages to investors is impaired, we may be required to fund these
commitments ourselves, or may not be able to originate loans at all.

Our mortgage segment sells all of the loans it originates into the secondary market
usually within 30 days from the date of closing, and has up to approximately $100 million
available in a repurchase agreement to fund mortgage closings. In the event that disruptions to
the secondary markets similar to those which occurred during 2007 and 2008 continue to tighten
or eliminate the available liquidity within the secondary markets for mortgage loans, or the
underwriting requirements by our secondary market investors continue to become more stringent,
our ability to sell future mortgages could decline and we could be required, among other
things, to fund our commitments to our buyers with our own financial resources, which is
limited, or require our home buyers to find another source of financing. The result of such
secondary market disruption could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability,
stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows.

Interest rate movements, inflation and other economic factors can negatively impact our business.

High rates of inflation generally affect the homebuilding industry adversely because of
their adverse impact on interest rates. High interest rates not only increase the cost of
borrowed funds to homebuilders but also have a significant effect on housing demand and on the
affordability of permanent mortgage financing to prospective purchasers. We are also subject
to potential volatility in the price of commodities that impact costs of materials used in our
homebuilding business. Increases in prevailing interest rates could have a material adverse
effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations
and future cash flows.

Our financial results also are affected by the risks generally incident to our mortgage
banking business, including interest rate levels, the impact of government regulation on
mortgage loan originations and servicing and the need to issue forward commitments to fund and
sell mortgage loans. Our homebuilding customers account for almost all of our mortgage banking
business. The volume of our continuing homebuilding operations therefore affects our mortgage
banking business.

Our mortgage banking business also is affected by interest rate fluctuations. We also may
experience marketing losses resulting from daily increases in interest rates to the extent we
are unable to match interest rates and amounts on loans we have committed to originate with
forward commitments from third parties to purchase such loans. Increases in interest rates may
have a material adverse effect on our mortgage banking revenue, profitability, stock
performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows.

Our operations may also be adversely affected by other economic factors within our markets
such as negative changes in employment levels, job growth, and consumer confidence and availability
of mortgage financing, one or all of which could result in reduced demand or price depression from
current levels. Such negative trends could have a material adverse effect on homebuilding
operations.


These factors and thus, the homebuilding business, have at times in the past been cyclical
in nature.
Any downturn in the national economy or the local economies of the markets in which we
operate could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance and
ability to service our debt obligations. In particular, approximately 37% of our home
settlements during 2010 occurred in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, MD metropolitan areas,
which accounted for 47% of our homebuilding revenues in 2010. Thus, we are dependent to a
significant extent on the economy and demand for housing in those areas.

Our inability to secure and control an adequate inventory of lots could adversely impact our
operations.

The results of our homebuilding operations are dependent upon our continuing ability to
control an adequate number of homebuilding lots in desirable locations. There can be no
assurance that an adequate supply of building lots will continue to be available to us on terms
similar to those available in the past, or that we will not be required to devote a greater
amount of capital to controlling building lots than we have historically. An insufficient
supply of building lots in one or more of our markets, an inability of our developers to
deliver finished lots in a timely fashion due to their inability to secure financing to fund
development activities or for other reasons, or our inability to purchase or finance building
lots on reasonable terms could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability,
stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows.

Volatility in the credit and capital markets may impact our ability to access necessary
financing.

Our homebuilding operations are dependent in part on the availability and cost of working
capital financing, and may be adversely affected by a shortage or an increase in the cost of
such financing. If we require working capital greater than that provided by our operations, we
may be required to seek to obtain alternative financing. No assurance can be given that
additional financing will be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable. In addition,
the credit and capital markets are experiencing significant volatility that is difficult to
predict. If we are required to seek financing to fund our working capital requirements,
continued volatility in these markets may restrict our flexibility to access financing. If we
are at any time unsuccessful in obtaining sufficient capital to fund our planned homebuilding
expenditures, we may experience a substantial delay in the completion of any homes then under
construction, or we may be unable to control or purchase finished building lots. Any delay
could result in cost increases and could have a material adverse effect on our sales,
profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash
flows.

Our mortgage banking operations are dependent on the availability, cost and other terms of
mortgage financing facilities, and may be adversely affected by any shortage or increased cost
of such financing. No assurance can be given that any additional or replacement financing will
be available on terms that are favorable or acceptable. Our mortgage banking operations are
also dependent upon the securitization market for mortgage-backed securities, and could be
materially adversely affected by any fluctuation or downturn in such market.

Our current indebtedness may impact our future operations.

Our existing indebtedness contains financial and other restrictive covenants and any
future indebtedness may also contain covenants. These covenants include, or could include,
limitations on our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries, to incur additional
indebtedness, pay cash dividends and make distributions, make loans and investments, enter into
transactions with affiliates, effect certain asset sales, incur certain liens, merge or
consolidate with any other person, or transfer all or substantially all of our properties and
assets. Substantial losses by us or other action or inaction by us or our subsidiaries could
result in the violation of one or more of these covenants which could result in decreased
liquidity or a default on our current or future indebtedness, thereby having a material adverse
effect on our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations
and future cash flows.


Government regulations and environmental matters could negatively affect our operations.

We are subject to various local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and
regulations concerning zoning, building design, construction and similar matters, including
local regulations that impose restrictive zoning and density requirements in order to limit the
number of homes that can eventually be built within the boundaries of a particular area. These
regulations may further increase the cost to produce and market our products. In addition, we
have from time to time been subject to, and may also be subject in the future to, periodic
delays in our homebuilding projects due to building moratoriums in the areas in which we
operate. Changes in regulations that restrict homebuilding activities in one or more of our
principal markets could have a material adverse effect on our sales, profitability, stock
performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash flows.

We are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules
and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. We are subject to a
variety of environmental conditions that can affect our business and our homebuilding projects.
The particular environmental laws that apply to any given homebuilding site vary greatly
according to the location and environmental condition of the site and the present and former
uses of the site and adjoining properties. Environmental laws and conditions may result in
delays, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs, or prohibit or severely
restrict homebuilding activity in certain environmentally sensitive regions or areas, thereby
adversely affecting our sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt
obligations and future cash flows.

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted on
July 21, 2010, contains numerous provisions affecting residential mortgages and mortgage
lending practices. Because these provisions are to be implemented through future rulemaking,
the ultimate impact of such provisions on lending institutions, including our mortgage banking
subsidiary, will depend on how the implementing rules are written.

We are an approved seller/servicer of FNMA, GNMA, FHLMC, FHA and VA mortgage loans, and
are subject to all of those agencies’ rules and regulations. Any significant impairment of our
eligibility to sell/service these loans could have a material adverse impact on our mortgage
operations. In addition, we are subject to regulation at the state and federal level with
respect to specific origination, selling and servicing practices including the Real Estate
Settlement and Protection Act. Adverse changes in governmental regulation may have a negative
impact on our mortgage loan origination business.

We face competition in our housing and mortgage banking operations.

The homebuilding industry is highly competitive. We compete with numerous homebuilders of
varying size, ranging from local to national in scope, some of whom have greater financial
resources than we do. We face competition:

•

for suitable and desirable lots at acceptable prices;

•

from selling incentives offered by competing builders within and
across developments; and

•

from the existing home resale market.

Our homebuilding operations compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design,
quality, service and reputation.

The mortgage banking industry is also competitive. Our main competition comes from
national, regional and local mortgage bankers, thrifts, banks and mortgage brokers in each of
these markets. Our mortgage banking operations compete primarily on the basis of customer
service, variety of products offered, interest rates offered, prices of ancillary services and
relative financing availability and costs.


There can be no assurance that we will continue to compete successfully in our homebuilding or
mortgage banking operations. An inability to effectively compete may have an adverse impact on our
sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash
flows.

A shortage of building materials or labor, or increases in materials or labor costs may adversely
impact
our operations.

The homebuilding business has from time to time experienced building material and labor
shortages, including shortages in insulation, drywall, certain carpentry work and concrete, as
well as fluctuating lumber prices and supply. In addition, high employment levels and strong
construction market conditions could restrict the labor force available to our subcontractors
and us in one or more of our markets. Significant increases in costs resulting from these
shortages, or delays in construction of homes, could have a material adverse effect upon our
sales, profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future
cash flows.

Product liability litigation and warranty claims may adversely impact our operations.

Construction defect and home warranty claims are common and can represent a substantial
risk for the homebuilding industry. The cost of insuring against construction defect and
product liability related claims, as well as the claims themselves, can be high. In addition,
insurance companies limit coverage offered to protect against these claims. Further
restrictions on coverage availability, or significant increases in premium costs or claims,
could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.

We are subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business if an unfavorable ruling were
to occur.

From time to time, we may become involved in litigation and other legal proceedings relating
to claims arising from our operations in the normal course of business. As described in, but not
limited to, Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K, we are currently subject to
certain legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable
rulings may occur. We cannot assure you that these or other litigation or legal proceedings will
not materially affect our ability to conduct our business in the manner that we expect or otherwise
adversely affect us should an unfavorable ruling occur.

Weather-related and other events beyond our control may adversely impact our operations.

Extreme weather or other events, such as significant snowfalls, hurricanes, tornadoes,
earthquakes, forest fires, floods, terrorist attacks or war, may affect our markets, our
operations and our profitability. These events may impact our physical facilities or those of
our suppliers or subcontractors, causing us material increases in costs, or delays in
construction of homes, which could have a material adverse effect upon our sales,
profitability, stock performance, ability to service our debt obligations and future cash
flows.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments.

None.

Item 2.

Properties.

Our corporate offices are located in Reston, Virginia, where we currently lease approximately
61,000 square feet of office space. The current corporate office lease expires in April 2015.

In connection with the operation of the homebuilding segment, we lease manufacturing
facilities in the following six locations: Thurmont, Maryland; Burlington County, New Jersey;
Farmington, New York; Kings Mountain, North Carolina; Darlington, Pennsylvania; and Portland,
Tennessee. These facilities range in size from approximately 40,000 square feet to 400,000 square
feet and combined total approximately 1 million  square feet of manufacturing space. Each of these
leases contains various options for extensions of the lease and


for the purchase of the facility.
The Portland, Thurmont and Farmington leases expire in 2014, and the Kings Mountain and Burlington
County leases expire in 2022 and 2023, respectively. The Darlington lease expires in 2025. We
expect to purchase a new manufacturing facility in the first quarter of 2011 in Dayton, OH. The
new facility will contain approximately 100,000 square feet of manufacturing space and production
from the Dayton facility is expected to begin by the end of 2011. Due to the economic downturn and
the related decline in our homebuilding activity, our current plant utilization has dropped to
approximately 40% of total capacity.

We also, in connection with both our homebuilding and mortgage banking businesses, lease
office space in multiple locations for homebuilding divisional offices and mortgage banking and
title services branches under leases expiring at various times through 2018, none of which are
individually material to our business. We anticipate that, upon expiration of existing leases, we
will be able to renew them or obtain comparable facilities on terms acceptable to us.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings.

On July 18, 2007, former and current employees filed lawsuits against the Company in the Court
of Common Pleas in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania and Hamilton County, Ohio, in Superior Court in
Durham County, North Carolina, and in the Circuit Court in Montgomery County, Maryland, and on July
19, 2007 in the Superior Court in New Jersey, alleging that we incorrectly classified our sales and
marketing representatives as being exempt from overtime wages. These lawsuits are similar in
nature to another lawsuit filed on October 29, 2004 by another former employee in the United States
District Court for the Western District of New York. The complaints seek injunctive relief, an
award of unpaid wages, including fringe benefits, liquidated damages equal to the overtime wages
allegedly due and not paid, attorney and other fees and interest, and where available, multiple
damages. The suits were filed as purported class actions. However, while a number of individuals
have filed consents to join and assert federal claims in the New York action, none of the groups of
employees that the lawsuits purport to represent have been certified as a class. The lawsuits
filed in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland, New Jersey and North Carolina have been stayed pending
further developments in the New York action.

We believe that our compensation practices in regard to sales and marketing representatives
are entirely lawful and in compliance with two letter rulings from the United States Department of
Labor (“DOL”) issued in January 2007. The two courts to most recently consider similar claims
against other homebuilders have acknowledged the DOL’s position that sales and marketing
representatives were properly classified as exempt from overtime wages and the only court to have
directly addressed the exempt status of such employees concluded that the DOL’s position was valid.
Accordingly, we have vigorously defended and intend to continue to vigorously defend these
lawsuits. Because we are unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome of this
case, or the amount of damages, if any, we have not recorded any associated liabilities in the
accompanying condensed, consolidated balance sheets.

In June 2010, we received a Request for Information from the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (the “EPA”) pursuant to Section 308 of the Clean Water Act. The request seeks
information about storm water discharge practices in connection with homebuilding projects
completed or underway by us. We have been cooperating with this request, have provided information
to the EPA and intend to continue cooperating with the EPA’s inquiries. At this time, we cannot
predict the outcome of this inquiry, nor can we reasonably estimate the potential costs that may be
associated with its eventual resolution.

In April 2010, NVRM received a Report of Examination (“ROE”) from the Office of the
Commissioner of Banks of the State of North Carolina (the “NCCOB”) reporting certain findings that
resulted from the NCCOB’s examination of selected files relating to loans originated by us in North
Carolina between August 1, 2006 and August 31, 2009. The ROE alleged that certain of the loan
files reflected violations of North Carolina and/or U.S. lending or consumer protection laws. The
ROE requested that we correct or otherwise address the alleged violations and in some instances
requested that we undertake an examination of all of our other loans in North Carolina to determine
whether similar alleged violations may have occurred, and if so, to take corrective action. We
responded to the ROE by letter dated June 10, 2010, contesting the findings and allegations,
providing factual information to correct certain of the findings, and refuting the NCCOB’s
interpretation of applicable law. On November 15, 2010, the NCCOB provided a written response to
our June 10, 2010 letter


closing certain alleged violations while reasserting certain others. On
January 12, 2011, we responded to the NCCOB’s November 15, 2010 letter providing additional factual
information to address the remaining findings and refuting the NCCOB’s interpretation of applicable
law. Accordingly, while the outcome of the matter is currently not determinable, we do not expect
resolution of the matter to have a material adverse effect on our financial position.

We are also involved in various other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business.
In the opinion
of management, and based on advice of legal counsel, this litigation is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.

Item 4.

[Removed and Reserved].

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Name

Age

Positions

Paul C. Saville


President and Chief Executive Officer of NVR

Robert A. Goethe


President of NVRM

Dennis M. Seremet


Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of NVR

Robert W. Henley


Vice President and Controller of NVR

Paul C. Saville

was named President and Chief Executive Officer of NVR, effective July
1, 2005. Prior to July 1, 2005, Mr. Saville had served as Senior Vice President Finance,
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of NVR since September 30, 1993 and Executive Vice
President from January 1, 2002 through June 30, 2005.

Robert A. Goethe

was named President of NVRM effective January 25, 2010. From 2008 until
January, 2010, Mr. Goethe served as a Senior Principal of Mortgage Connect Corp. From 2006
to 2008, Mr. Goethe served as the Senior Executive Vice
President of Regions Mortgage
Corporation, and from 1996 until 2006, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of Regions
Financial Corporation.

Dennis M. Seremet

was named Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of NVR,
effective July 1, 2005 and Senior Vice President effective December 14, 2007. Prior to July
1, 2005, Mr. Seremet had been Vice President and Controller of NVR since April 1, 1995.

Robert W. Henley

was named Vice President and Controller of NVR effective July 1, 2005.
From May 2000 to June 30, 2005, Mr. Henley was the Assistant Controller.


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities.

Our shares of common stock are listed and principally traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
The following table sets forth the high and low prices per share for our common stock for each
fiscal quarter during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:

HIGH

LOW

Prices per Share:


Fourth Quarter

$

699.28

$

611.50

Third Quarter

$

680.05

$

595.00

Second Quarter

$

769.50

$

627.43

First Quarter

$

759.27

$

655.00


Fourth Quarter

$

742.00

$

607.00

Third Quarter

$

698.28

$

477.41

Second Quarter

$

533.89

$

416.24

First Quarter

$

500.05

$

310.69

As of the close of business on February
21, 2011, there were 364 shareholders of
record.

We have never paid a cash dividend on our shares of common stock.

We had one repurchase authorization outstanding during the quarter ended December 31, 2010.
On July 29, 2010 (“July Authorization”), we publicly announced the Board of Directors’ approval for
us to repurchase up to an aggregate of $300 million of our common stock in one or more open market
and/or privately negotiated transactions. The July Authorization does not have an expiration date.
The following table provides information regarding common stock repurchases for the quarter ended
December 31, 2010:

Maximum Number (or

Total Number of

Approximate Dollar

Shares Purchased as

Value) of Shares

Average Price

Part of Publicly

that May Yet Be

Total Number of

Paid

Announced Plans or

Purchased Under the

Period

Shares Purchased

per Share

Programs

Plans or Programs

October 1 - 31, 2010

—

—

—

$

148,986,000

November 1 - 30,

52,216

$

627.94

52,216

$

116,198,000

December 1 - 31,

11,300

$

619.33

11,300

$

109,200,000

Total

63,516

$

626.41

63,516


Stock Performance Graph

COMPARISON OF CUMULATIVE TOTAL EQUITYHOLDER RETURN ON EQUITY

The following chart graphs our performance in the form of cumulative total return to holders
of our Common Stock since December 31, 2005 in comparison to the Dow/Home Construction Index and
the Dow Jones Industrial Index for that same period. The Dow/Home Construction Index is comprised
of NVR, Inc., Pulte Homes, Inc., DR Horton, Inc., Lennar Corp., Toll Brothers, Inc., MDC Holdings,
Inc., KB Home, Ryland Group, Inc., Meritage Homes Corp., Standard Pacific Corp., Skyline Corp. and
M/I Homes, Inc.

Assumes that $100 was invested in NVR stock and the indices on December 31, 2005.

Item 6.

Selected Financial Data.

(dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

The following tables set forth selected consolidated financial data. The selected income
statement and balance sheet data have been derived from our consolidated financial statements for
each of the periods presented and is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations.
The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety
by, the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.


Year Ended December 31,






Consolidated Income Statement Data:

Homebuilding data:

Revenues

$

2,980,758

$

2,683,467

$

3,638,702

$

5,048,187

$

6,036,236

Gross profit

542,466

497,734

457,692

821,128

1,334,971

Mortgage Banking data

:

Mortgage banking fees

61,134

60,381

54,337

81,155

97,888

Interest income

5,411

2,979

3,955

4,900

7,704

Interest expense

1,126

1,184



2,805

Consolidated data:

Income from continuing operations

$

206,005

$

192,180

$

100,892

$

333,955

$

587,412

Income from continuing operations per diluted
share (1)

$

33.42

$

31.26

$

17.04

$

54.14

$

88.05

December 31,






Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:

Homebuilding inventory

$

431,329

$

418,718

$

400,570

$

688,854

$

733,616

Contract land deposits, net

100,786

49,906

29,073

188,528

402,170

Total assets

2,260,061

2,395,770

2,103,236

2,194,416

2,473,808

Notes and loans payable

92,089

147,880

210,389

286,283

356,632

Shareholders’ equity

1,740,374

1,757,262

1,373,789

1,129,375

1,152,074

Cash dividends per share

—

—

—

—

—

(1)

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, income from continuing
operations per diluted share was computed based on 6,164,617; 6,148,769; 5,920,285; 6,167,795
and 6,671,571 shares, respectively, which represents the weighted average number of shares and
share equivalents outstanding for each year.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations.

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008

Overview

Business

Our primary business is the construction and sale of single-family detached homes, townhomes
and condominium buildings, all of which are primarily constructed on a pre-sold basis. To fully
serve customers of our homebuilding operations, we also operate a mortgage banking and title
services business. We primarily conduct our operations in mature markets. Additionally, we
generally grow our business through market share gains in our existing markets and by expanding
into markets contiguous to our current active markets. Our four homebuilding reportable segments
consist of the following regions:

Mid Atlantic:

Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and Delaware

North East:

New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania

Mid East:

Kentucky, New York, Ohio, western Pennsylvania and Indiana

South East:

North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Florida


Our lot acquisition strategy is predicated upon avoiding the financial requirements and risks
associated with direct land ownership and development. Historically, we have not engaged in land
development to obtain finished lots for use in our homebuilding operations. Instead, we have
acquired finished lots at market prices from various third party land developers pursuant to fixed
price purchase agreements. These purchase agreements require deposits, typically ranging up to 10%
of the aggregate purchase price of the finished lots, in the form of cash or letters of credit that
may be forfeited if we fail to perform under the purchase agreement. This strategy has allowed us
to maximize inventory turnover, which we believe enables us to minimize market risk and to operate
with less capital, thereby enhancing rates of return on equity and total capital.

Our continued success is contingent upon our ability to control an adequate supply of finished
lots on which to build and on our developers’ ability to timely deliver finished lots to meet the
sales demands of our customers. However, current economic conditions and the continued downturn of
the homebuilding industry have exerted pressure on our developers’ ability to obtain acquisition
and development financing or to raise equity investments to finance land development activity,
potentially constraining our supply of finished lots. This pressure has necessitated that in
certain specific strategic circumstances we deviate from our historical lot acquisition strategy
and engage in joint venture arrangements with land developers or directly acquire raw ground
already zoned for its intended use for development. Once we acquire control of any raw ground, we
will determine whether to sell the raw parcel to a developer and enter into a fixed price purchase
agreement with the developer to purchase the finished lots, or whether we will hire a developer to
develop the land on our behalf. While joint venture arrangements and direct land development
activity are not our preferred method of acquiring finished building lots, we may enter into
additional transactions in the future on a limited basis where there exists a compelling strategic
or prudent financial reason to do so. We expect, however, to continue to acquire
substantially all of our finished lot inventory using fixed price purchase agreements with
forfeitable deposits.

As of December 31, 2010, we controlled approximately 50,400 lots under purchase agreements
with deposits in cash and letters of credit totaling approximately $174,300 and $6,600,
respectively. In addition, we controlled approximately 1,100 lots through joint ventures.
Included in the number of controlled lots are approximately 10,300 lots for which we have recorded
a contract land deposit impairment reserve of approximately $73,500 as of December 31, 2010. See
Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for additional information
regarding contract land deposits. Further, as of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $78,000
in land under development, that once fully developed will result in approximately 890 lots.

In addition to constructing homes primarily on a pre-sold basis and utilizing what we believe
is a conservative lot acquisition strategy, we focus on obtaining and maintaining a leading market
position in each market we serve. This strategy allows us to gain valuable efficiencies and
competitive advantages in our markets, which we believe contributes to minimizing the adverse
effects of regional economic cycles and provides growth opportunities within these markets.

Current Business Environment

The homebuilding environment in 2010 remained challenging as it continued to be impacted by
the economic downturn that began several years prior. The market stabilization we had experienced
toward the end of 2009 and into the first quarter of 2010 was negatively impacted by the April 30,
2010 expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit. After April 30, 2010, new home sales
experienced sharp declines, providing evidence that rather than increasing overall demand, the tax
credit may have merely accelerated existing demand. The current home sales environment continues
to be adversely impacted by high inventory levels, low consumer confidence driven by high
unemployment rates, and a highly restrictive mortgage lending environment that has made it more
difficult for our customers to obtain mortgage financing. Our new orders for 2010 remained flat
with new orders in 2009, however, new housing demand declined in both the third and fourth quarters
of 2010 from the higher new order results experienced in the first two quarters of 2010. In
addition, cancellation rates increased to 18% in both the third and fourth quarters of 2010,
compared to 14% and 15% in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively, and 12% in the
second quarter of 2010.


Consolidated revenues totaled $3,041,892 for 2010, an increase of 11% from $2,743,848 in 2009.
The increase in revenues was driven by increased home settlements primarily resulting from the
expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit in the second quarter of 2010. Net income and
diluted earnings per share in 2010 each increased 7% from 2009. Gross profit margins within our
homebuilding business declined slightly to 18.2% in 2010 from 18.5% in 2009.

Although we believe we have once again begun to experience some pricing stabilization in
several of our markets as we enter 2011, we believe that significant economic uncertainties remain
which could result in continued sales and pricing pressure over the next several quarters. In
addition, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, enacted on July 21, 2010,
contains numerous provisions affecting residential mortgages and mortgage lending practices.
Because these provisions are to be implemented through future rulemaking, the ultimate impact of
such provisions on lending institutions, including our mortgage banking subsidiary, will depend on
how the implementing rules are written.

Despite these ongoing economic uncertainties, we believe that we are well positioned to take
advantage of opportunities that may arise due to the strength of our balance sheet and liquidity.
As of December 31, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents balance totaled approximately $1,200,000.
In addition, during 2010, we redeemed the remaining $133,370 of our outstanding senior notes upon
their maturity and repurchased approximately $417,080 of our common stock.

Homebuilding Operations

The following table summarizes the results of our consolidated homebuilding operations and certain
operating activity for each of the last three years:

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues

$

2,980,758

$

2,683,467

$

3,638,702

Cost of sales

$

2,438,292

$

2,185,733

$

3,181,010

Gross profit margin percentage

18.2

%

18.5

%

12.6

%

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

$

257,394

$

233,152

$

308,739

Settlements (units)

10,030

9,042

10,741

Average settlement price

$

297.1

$

296.4

$

338.4

New orders (units)

9,415

9,409

8,760

Average new order price

$

304.0

$

292.7

$

311.3

Backlog (units)

2,916

3,531

3,164

Average backlog price

$

328.6

$

304.9

$

316.9

New order cancellation rate


%


%


%

Consolidated Homebuilding Revenues

Homebuilding revenues for 2010 increased 11% from 2009, as a result of an 11%, or 988 unit,
increase in the number of homes settled. The increase in the number of homes settled was primarily
attributable to the impact of the federal homebuyer tax credit which resulted in strong first
quarter sales and increased settlements through the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the same
period in 2009. In addition, the increase in settlements was also favorably impacted by a 12%
higher beginning backlog unit balance entering 2010 compared to the same period in 2009.

Homebuilding revenues for 2009 decreased 26% from 2008, as a result of a 16%, or 1,699 unit,
decrease in the number of homes settled and a 12% decrease in the average settlement price. The
decrease in the number of units settled was primarily attributable to our beginning backlog units
being approximately 39%, or 1,981 units, lower entering 2009 compared to the backlog unit balance
entering 2008, offset partially by a higher backlog turnover rate period over period. Average
settlement prices were impacted primarily by a 15% lower


average price of homes in the beginning backlog entering 2009 compared to the same period
in 2008, coupled with a 9% decline in the average sales price of new orders for the first six
months of 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008.

Consolidated Homebuilding New Orders

New orders in 2010 remained flat with 2009 new orders, while the average sales price of new
orders increased 4% year over year. New orders remained flat despite a strong first quarter in
2010, driven we believe by the federal homebuyer tax credit, and increased sales in the
Indianapolis, IN, Orlando, FL and Raleigh, NC markets, each of which began operations in the second
half of 2009. Since the first quarter of 2010, we experienced a consistent decline in the number
of new orders across all of our markets in each of the second, third and fourth quarters of 2010
compared to the respective periods in 2009. The increase in the average price of new orders was
attributable to a product mix shift away from our attached products to our detached product which
generally sell at higher price points. We expect to continue to face selling pressure over the
next several quarters due to continuing economic uncertainties, including low consumer confidence
and high unemployment rates, as discussed in the Overview section above.

New orders in 2009 increased by 7% compared to 2008, while the average sales price of new
orders decreased 6% year over year. The increase in new orders in 2009 was in part attributable to
a 47% increase in new orders in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, a
period in which we experienced a significant drop-off in new orders due to a sharp decline in
overall economic conditions. In addition, new orders in 2009 were favorably impacted by higher
absorption rates, offsetting the 17% decrease in the average number of active communities year over
year. We believe new orders in 2009 were also favorably impacted by the first-time homebuyer
federal tax credit as well as by a decrease in the cancellation rate to 14% in 2009 from 23% in
2008. During 2009, to meet affordability issues in many of our markets, we altered our product
offerings to provide smaller, lower priced products.

Consolidated Homebuilding Gross Profit

Gross profit margins in 2010 declined slightly to 18.2% from 18.5% in 2009. Gross profit
margins in 2010 were negatively impacted by a contract land deposit impairment charge of
approximately $4,300, or 14 basis points, while 2009 gross profit margins were favorably impacted
by the recovery of approximately $6,500, or 24 basis points, of contract land deposits previously
determined to be uncollectible. We expect to experience gross profit margin pressure over at least
the next several quarters due to significant market uncertainties as discussed in the

Overview

section above.

Gross profit margins in 2009 improved to 18.5% compared to 12.6% in 2008 primarily due to a
favorable variance in contract land deposit impairment charges year over year. In 2009 we
recognized the recovery of approximately $6,500, or 24 basis points, of contract land deposits
previously determined to be uncollectible. In 2008 we recognized a contract land deposit
impairment charge of approximately $165,000, or 454 basis points. Gross profit margins in 2009
were also favorably impacted as a result of us exiting a significant number of poor performing
communities in 2008 which were producing lower gross profit margins. In addition, gross profit
margins in 2009 were favorably impacted by lower lumber and certain other commodity costs as well
as by cost control measures implemented to reduce subcontractor and material costs in prior
periods.

Consolidated Homebuilding Selling, General and Administrative (“SG&A”)

SG&A expenses in 2010 increased approximately $24,200 compared to 2009, but remained flat as a
percentage of revenue year over year. The increase in SG&A expenses was attributable to an
approximate $13,500 increase in stock-based compensation costs in 2010 compared to the same period
in 2009, due to the grant of non-qualified stock options and restricted share units under the 2010
Equity Incentive Plan, offset partially by a reversal of approximately $6,600 in stock-based
compensation expense previously recorded to SG&A expense as we adjusted our stock option forfeiture
estimates to our actual forfeiture experience. SG&A expense was also higher due to an approximate
$5,600 increase in management incentive costs as 2009 incentive


plans were limited to payouts of
50% of incentive earned, while no similar restrictions are imposed
on 2010 incentive compensation. In addition, SG&A expenses were impacted by an approximate $7,600
increase in selling and marketing costs year over year due primarily to an approximate $5,700
increase in advertising and model home costs attributable in part to an increase in the average
number of active communities to 371 communities in 2010 from 355 communities in 2009.

SG&A expenses in 2009 decreased approximately $75,600 compared to 2008, but increased slightly
as a percentage of revenue to 8.7% in 2009 from 8.5% in 2008. The decrease in SG&A expenses was
primarily attributable to a $36,300 decrease in selling and marketing costs in 2009 compared to
2008 due to a 17% decrease in the average number of active communities year over year to 355 in
2009 from 427 in 2008. In addition, personnel costs were down approximately $26,900 due primarily
to 24% decrease in average staffing levels year over year.

Consolidated Homebuilding Backlog

Backlog units and dollars decreased approximately 17% to 2,916 and 11% to $958,287,
respectively, as of December 31, 2010 compared to 3,531 and $1,076,437 as of December 31, 2009.
The decrease in backlog units was primarily attributable to the increased settlement activity in
2010 as discussed above. Backlog dollars were negatively impacted by the decrease in backlog
units.

Backlog, which represents homes sold but not yet settled with the customer, may be impacted by
customer cancellations for various reasons that are beyond our control, such as failure to obtain
mortgage financing, inability to sell an existing home, job loss, or a variety of other reasons.
In any period, a portion of the cancellations that we experience are related to new sales that
occurred during the same period, and a portion are related to sales that occurred in prior periods
and therefore appeared in the opening backlog for the current period. Expressed as the total of
all cancellations during the period as a percentage of gross sales during the period, our
cancellation rate was approximately 14% in both 2010 and 2009, and 23% in 2008. During 2010, 2009
and 2008, approximately 6%, 7% and 10% of a reporting quarter’s opening backlog cancelled during
the fiscal quarter, respectively. We can provide no assurance that our historical cancellation
rates are indicative of the actual cancellation rate that may occur in future periods. See “Risk
Factors” in Item 1A of this Report.

Backlog units and dollars were 3,531 and $1,076,437, respectively, as of December 31, 2009
compared to 3,164 and $1,002,795 as of December 31, 2008. Net new order and settlement activity
during 2009 resulted in the increase in backlog units year over year. The 7% increase in backlog
dollars was primarily attributable to the 12% increase in backlog units offset partially by a 4%
decrease in the average price of homes in ending backlog.

Consolidated Homebuilding — Other Charges

We reassessed our goodwill and intangible asset balances for impairment in the fourth quarter
of 2008, as a result of the continuing declines in new orders and backlog in 2008, and the
continuing deterioration of the homebuilding environment in each of our markets spurred further in
2008 by the credit crisis in the latter part of 2008. As a result of that assessment, we
determined that the goodwill and intangible assets related to our Rymarc Homes and Fox Ridge Homes
operations were fully impaired and we wrote-off a total of $11,686 related to such assets in 2008.
We completed the annual assessment of the intangible asset balance in 2010 and 2009 and determined
that there was no impairment. See Note 1 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
included herein for further discussion of intangible assets.

Reportable Homebuilding Segments

Homebuilding profit before tax includes all revenues and income generated from the sale of
homes, less the cost of homes sold, SG&A expenses, and a corporate capital allocation charge
determined at the corporate headquarters. The corporate capital allocation charge eliminates in
consolidation, is based on the segment’s average net assets employed, and is charged using a
consistent methodology in the years presented. The corporate capital allocation charged to the
operating segment allows the Chief Operating Decision Maker to determine whether the operating
segment’s results are providing the desired rate of return after covering our cost


of capital. We record charges on contract land deposits when we determine that it is probable
that recovery of the deposit is impaired. For segment reporting purposes, impairments on contract
land deposits are generally charged to the operating segment upon the determination to terminate a
finished lot purchase agreement with the developer or to restructure a lot purchase agreement
resulting in the forfeiture of the deposit. We evaluate our entire net contract land deposit
portfolio for impairment each quarter. For additional information regarding our contract land
deposit impairment analysis, see the

Critical Accounting Policies

section within this Management
Discussion and Analysis. For presentation purposes below, the contract land deposit reserve at
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, has been allocated to the reportable segments to
show contract land deposits on a net basis. The net contract land deposit balances below also
includes approximately $6,600, $4,900 and $5,400 at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively,
of letters of credit issued as deposits in lieu of cash. The following tables summarize certain
homebuilding operating activity by reportable segment for each of the last three years:

Selected Segment Financial Data:

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Mid Atlantic

$

1,780,521

$

1,661,244

$

2,161,764

North East

287,561

254,654

347,142

Mid East

632,377

505,431

659,649

South East

280,299

262,138

470,147

Total

$

2,980,758

$

2,683,467

$

3,638,702

Gross profit margin:

Mid Atlantic

$

338,586

$

307,525

$

294,699

North East

48,528

42,282

46,607

Mid East

109,579

85,931

104,761

South East

41,074

36,490

60,173

Total

$

537,767

$

472,228

$

506,240

Segment profit:

Mid Atlantic

$

209,496

$

185,861

$

103,690

North East

25,091

19,572

13,182

Mid East

56,882

38,012

39,643

South East

10,870

7,384

7,904

Total

$

302,339

$

250,829

$

164,419

Gross profit margin percentage:

Mid Atlantic

19.0

%

18.5

%

13.6

%

North East

16.9

%

16.6

%

13.4

%

Mid East

17.3

%

17.0

%

15.9

%

South East

14.7

%

13.9

%

12.8

%


Segment Operating Activity:

Year Ended December 31,




Average

Average

Average

Units

Price

Units

Price

Units

Price

Settlements:

Mid Atlantic

5,043

$

353.0

4,722

$

351.8

5,240

$

412.5

North East


$

312.5


$

288.7

1,086

$

319.7

Mid East

2,886

$

219.0

2,323

$

216.3

2,762

$

237.4

South East

1,181

$

237.2

1,115

$

235.1

1,653

$

284.4

Total

10,030

$

297.1

9,042

$

296.4

10,741

$

338.4

New orders, net of cancellations:

Mid Atlantic

4,775

$

365.1

4,809

$

347.4

4,290

$

373.4

North East


$

317.3


$

293.5


$

298.5

Mid East

2,656

$

221.3

2,552

$

217.3

2,380

$

229.5

South East

1,157

$

231.9

1,144

$

230.2

1,206

$

261.2

Total

9,415

$

304.0

9,409

$

292.7

8,760

$

311.3

Backlog:

Mid Atlantic

1,595

$

396.2

1,863

$

359.0

1,776

$

371.3

North East


$

315.9


$

302.8


$

288.8

Mid East


$

234.7


$

224.7


$

223.9

South East


$

227.6


$

244.1


$

260.5

Total

2,916

$

328.6

3,531

$

304.9

3,164

$

316.9

Operating Data:

Year Ended December 31,




New order cancellation rate:

Mid Atlantic

11.3

%

14.4

%

24.4

%

North East

16.4

%

14.5

%

19.7

%

Mid East

15.0

%

13.9

%

17.7

%

South East

18.9

%

14.8

%

28.9

%

Average active communities:

Mid Atlantic




North East




Mid East




South East




Total





Homebuilding Inventory:

As of December 31,




Sold inventory:

Mid Atlantic

$

182,128

$

219,885

$

215,587

North East

20,703

36,315

31,321

Mid East

43,506

60,107

41,751

South East

23,711

21,521

29,781

Total

$

270,048

$

337,828

$

318,440

Unsold lots and housing units inventory:

Mid Atlantic

$

42,682

$

47,120

$

30,370

North East

3,687

4,152

4,195

Mid East

11,089

16,353

14,549

South East

8,967

4,783

5,878

Total

$

66,425

$

72,408

$

54,992

Year Ended December 31,




Unsold inventory impairments:

Mid Atlantic

$

1,520

$

1,286

$

1,163

North East




Mid East




South East




Total

$

3,194

$

2,744

$

1,934


Lots Controlled and Land Deposits:

As of December 31,




Total lots controlled:

Mid Atlantic

30,201

26,938

23,711

North East

4,025

3,898

3,619

Mid East

11,061

10,163

11,027

South East

7,023

5,338

6,626

Total

52,310

46,337

44,983

Lots included in impairment reserve:

Mid Atlantic

5,973

6,575

7,565

North East



1,879

Mid East

2,055

2,022

3,553

South East

1,678

1,363

3,738

Total

10,300

10,806

16,735

Contract land deposits, net

Mid Atlantic

$

82,165

$

38,729

$

17,953

North East

8,525

3,513

1,233

Mid East

11,876

5,242

6,788

South East

4,830

3,161

1,332

Total

$

107,396

$

50,645

$

27,306

Year Ended December 31,




Contract land deposit impairments:

Mid Atlantic

$

9,150

$

18,425

$

81,834

North East

4,898

2,489

11,190

Mid East

1,686

7,244

10,393

South East

4,618

5,236

20,081

Total

$

20,352

$

33,394

$

123,498

Mid Atlantic

2010 versus 2009

The Mid Atlantic segment had an approximate $23,600, or 13%, increase in segment profit in
2010 compared to 2009. Revenues increased approximately $119,300, or 7%, in 2010 from 2009 on a 7%
increase in the number of units settled. The increase in units settled was attributable to the
impact of the federal homebuyer tax credit which we believe resulted in higher first quarter sales
and increased settlements through
the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. In addition, 2010
settlements were also favorably impacted by a 5% higher beginning backlog unit balance entering
2010 as compared to 2009. The segment’s


gross profit margin percentage increased to 19.0% in 2010 from 18.5% in 2009. Segment
profit and gross profit margins were favorably impacted by lower contract land deposit impairment
charges in 2010 of $9,150, or 51 basis points, compared to $18,425, or 111 basis points in 2009.

Segment new orders in 2010 declined approximately 1%, while the average sales price of new
orders in 2010 increased approximately 5%, as compared to new orders and the average sales price in
2009. The increase in the average price of new orders was attributable to a product mix shift away
from our attached products to our detached product which generally sell at higher price points.

2009 versus 2008

The Mid Atlantic segment had an approximate $82,200, or 79%, increase in segment profit in
2009 compared to 2008. Revenues for the Mid Atlantic segment, which represents approximately 62%
of total homebuilding revenues for the year, decreased approximately $500,500, or 23%, in 2009
compared to 2008. Revenues declined due to a 10%, or 518 unit, decrease in units settled and a 15%
decrease in the average settlement price of homes in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease in units
settled is attributable to a 35%, or 950 unit, lower backlog balance at the beginning of 2009
compared to the same period in 2008, offset partially by a higher backlog turnover rate year over
year. The decrease in the average settlement price was primarily attributable to a 17% lower
average price of homes in the beginning backlog year over year, coupled with a 9% decline in the
average sales price of new orders for the first six months of 2009 as compared to the same period
in 2008. The segment’s gross profit margin percentage increased to 18.5% in 2009 from 13.6% in
2008. Gross profit margins were favorably impacted by lower contract land deposit impairment
charges in 2009 of $18,425, or 111 basis points, compared to $81,834, or 379 basis points, in 2008.
Gross profit margins in 2009 were also favorably impacted as a result of us exiting poor
performing communities in 2008 which were producing lower gross profit margins. In addition, 2009
gross profit margins as well as segment profit were favorably impacted by lower lumber and certain
other commodity costs as well as by cost control measures taken in prior quarters, reducing
material and personnel costs.

Segment new orders in 2009 increased 12% from 2008, while the segment’s average sales price of
new orders decreased 7% year over year. New orders were favorably impacted in part by a 43%
increase in the number of new orders in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in
2008, as a result of the significant impact of the fourth quarter 2008 credit crisis on the
homebuilding market. New orders were also favorably impacted in 2009 by a decrease in the
cancellation rate in 2009 to 14% from 24% during 2008. In addition, we believe that the federal
tax credit for first-time homebuyers had a favorable impact on new orders in 2009, as first-time
homebuyers made up a higher percentage of our total sales in the segment year over year.

North East

2010 versus 2009

The North East segment had an approximate $5,500, or 28% increase in segment profit in 2010
compared to 2009. Revenues increased approximately $32,900, or 13%, in 2010 from 2009. Revenues
increased due to a 4% increase in the number of units settled and an 8% increase in the average
settlement price year over year. The increase in units settled was primarily attributable to the
impact of the federal homebuyer tax credit which we believe resulted in higher first quarter sales
and increased settlements through the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the same period in
2009. The increase in the average settlement price resulted from a product mix shift away from our
attached products to our detached product, which generally sells at higher price points. Gross
profit margins remained relatively flat period over period, as the higher contract land deposit
impairment charges in 2010 of $4,898, or 170 basis points, compared to 2009 of $2,489, or 98 basis
points, were offset by improved leveraging of fixed operating costs due to higher settlement volume
year over year.

Segment new orders in 2010 decreased 9% compared to 2009, while the average sales price of new
orders increased 8% year over year. Subsequent to the April 30, 2010 expiration of the federal
homebuyer tax credit, we experienced a decline in new orders in each quarter of 2010 as compared to
the respective quarters of


2009. The average sales price of new orders has been favorably impacted
by a product mix shift away from our attached products to our detached product, which generally
sells at higher price points.

2009 versus 2008

The North East segment had an approximate $6,400, or 49%, increase in segment profit in 2009
compared to 2008, despite a decrease in revenues of approximately $92,500, or 27%, year over year.
The decline in revenues was due to a 19%, or 204 unit, decrease in the number of units settled and
a 10% decrease in the average settlement price year over year. The decrease in the number of units
settled and the average settlement price was primarily attributable to a 40%, or 202 unit, lower
beginning backlog balance entering 2009 compared to 2008 and 15% lower average price of homes in
beginning backlog year over year. Gross profit margins increased to 16.6% in 2009 from 13.4% in
2008. The increase in gross margins was attributable primarily to lower contract land deposit
impairment charges in 2009 of $2,489, or 98 basis points, compared to 2008 of $11,190, or 322 basis
points. In addition, 2009 gross profit margins as well as segment profit were favorably impacted
by lower lumber and certain other commodity costs as well as by cost control measures taken in
prior quarters, reducing material and personnel costs.

Segment new orders in 2009 increased 2% from 2008, while the segment’s average sales price for
new orders decreased 2% year over year. New orders were favorably impacted in part by a 26%
increase in the number of new orders in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in
2008, as a result of the significant impact of the fourth quarter 2008 credit crisis on the
homebuilding market. We believe new orders were also favorably impacted in 2009 by the federal tax
credit for first-time homebuyers and by a decrease in the cancellation rate to 15% in 2009 from 20%
in 2008.

Mid East

2010 versus 2009

The Mid East segment had an approximate $18,900, or 50%, increase in segment profit in 2010
compared to 2009. The increase in segment profit was driven by an increase in revenues of
approximately $126,900, or 25%, in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to a 24% increase in the
number of units settled year over year. The increase in units settled was attributable to the
impact of the federal homebuyer tax credit which we believe resulted in higher first quarter sales
and increased settlements through the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the same period in
2009. In addition, settlements were favorably impacted by a 31% higher beginning backlog entering
2010 compared to the same period in 2009. Gross profit margins remained relatively flat year over
year, at 17.3% in 2010 compared to 17.0% in 2009.

Segment new orders and the average new order selling price in 2010 increased 4% and 2%,
respectively compared to 2009. New orders were favorably impacted primarily by the 178 new orders
in the current year in Indianapolis, IN, market which began operations in the fourth quarter of
2009. This increase was offset partially by an increase in the cancellation rate in both the third
and fourth quarters of 2010 to 21% in each quarter as compared to 15% and 13% in the third and
fourth quarters of 2009, respectively.

2009 versus 2008

The Mid East segment had an approximate $1,600, or 4%, decrease in segment profit and an
approximate $154,200, or 23%, decrease in revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. Revenues decreased
due to a 16%, or 439 unit, decrease in the number of units settled and a 9% decrease in the average
settlement price period over period. The decreases in the number of units settled and the average
settlement price were primarily attributable to a 34%, or 382 unit, lower beginning backlog balance
and 9% lower average price of homes in beginning backlog year over year, respectively. In
addition, average settlement prices were negatively impacted by a 10% decline in the average sales
price of new orders for the first six months of 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. Gross
profit margins increased year over year, as cost reduction measures initiated in prior periods
offset the decrease in the average settlement price in 2009 compared to 2008. Gross profit margins
in 2009 were also favorably impacted as a result of us exiting poor performing communities in 2008
which were producing lower gross profit margins.


Segment new orders in 2009 increased 7% from 2008, while the segment’s average sales price for
new orders decreased 5% year over year. New orders were favorably impacted in part by a 51%
increase in the number of new orders in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to the same period in
2008, as a result of the significant impact of the fourth quarter 2008 credit crisis on the
homebuilding market. We believe new orders in 2009 were also favorably impacted by the federal tax
credit for first-time homebuyers, and a decrease in the cancellation rate to 14% in 2009 from 18%
in 2008, despite a reduction in the average number of active communities year over year. New order
average sale prices continued to be negatively impacted by market conditions, which required us to
alter our product offerings and reduce prices in each market within this segment.

South East

2010 versus 2009

The South East segment had an approximate $3,500 increase in segment profit in 2010 compared
to 2009. The increase in segment profit was driven by an increase of approximately $18,200, or 7%,
in revenues in 2010 from 2009 due primarily to a 6% increase in the number of units settled. The
increase in units settled was primarily attributable to the impact of the federal homebuyer tax
credit which we believe resulted in higher first quarter sales and increased settlements through
the second quarter of 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009. In addition, settlements were
favorably impacted by an 8% higher beginning backlog entering 2010 compared to the same period in
2009. Gross profit margins increased to 14.7% in 2010 from 13.9% in 2009 due in part to lower
contract land deposit impairment charges in 2010 of $4,618, or 165 basis points, compared to
$5,236, or 200 basis points in 2009, coupled with improved leveraging of fixed operating costs due
to higher settlement volume year over year.

Segment new orders and the average sales price of new orders for 2010 remained relatively flat
with 2009. New orders were favorably impacted by an 18% increase in the average number of active
communities year over year, and by the increase of approximately 80 new orders in 2010 in the
Orlando, FL and Raleigh, NC markets, in which we began operations in the third quarter of 2009.
These favorable variances were offset by higher cancellations rates in the segment in both the
third and fourth quarters of 2010 of 32% and 19% respectively, compared to 14% and 18% for the
respective quarters of 2009 and lower absorption rates year over year. Market conditions continued
to deteriorate in this segment throughout 2010. The challenging market conditions, coupled with
the expiration of the federal homebuyer tax credit in April of 2010, attributed to the segment’s
higher cancellation rates and fewer new orders in each the second, third and fourth quarters of
2010 as compared to the respective quarters in 2009. We believe we will continue to face
significant new order and sales pricing pressure in many of our markets in the South East segment
over the next several quarters due to continuing difficult market conditions.

2009 versus 2008

The South East segment had an approximate $500, or 7% decrease in segment profit and an
approximate $208,000, or 44%, decrease in revenues in 2009 compared to 2008. Revenues decreased
primarily due to a 33%, or 538 unit, decrease in the number of units settled and a 17% decrease in
the average settlement price year over year. The decrease in units settled was attributable to a
56%, or 447 unit, lower beginning backlog balance entering 2009 compared to the same period in 2008
coupled with a 25%, or 203 unit, decrease in new orders during the first six months of 2009 as
compared to the first six months of 2008. The decrease in the average settlement price was
primarily attributable to a 16% lower average price of units in backlog entering 2009 compared to
the same period in 2008, coupled with a 16% decline in the average sales price of new orders for
the first six months of 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. Gross profit margins
increased to 13.9% in 2009 from 12.8% in 2008. Gross profit margins were favorably impacted by
lower contract land deposit impairment charges in 2009 of $5,236, or 200 basis points, compared to
$20,081, or 427 basis points, in 2008. This favorable impact on gross profit margins year over
year was partially offset by a 12% decline in average new order sales prices in 2009 from 2008, as
the South East segment market conditions were more challenging than those seen in our other market
segments.


Segment new orders and the average new order sales price decreased 5% and 12%, respectively,
in 2009 compared to 2008. New orders have been negatively impacted by a 23% decrease in the
average number of
active communities year over year. In addition, the challenging market conditions in the
South East segment had continued to negatively impact both new orders and new order sales prices.
We believe new orders were favorably impacted in 2009 by the federal tax credit for first-time
homebuyers and by a decrease in cancellation rates to 15% in 2009 from 29% in 2008.

Homebuilding Segment Reconciliations to Consolidated Homebuilding Operations

In addition to the corporate capital allocation and contract land deposit impairments
discussed above, the other reconciling items between homebuilding segment profit and homebuilding
consolidated profit before tax include unallocated corporate overhead (which includes all
management incentive compensation), stock option compensation expense, goodwill and intangible
asset impairment charges, consolidation adjustments and external corporate interest expense. Our
overhead functions, such as accounting, treasury, human resources, etc., are centrally performed
and the costs are not allocated to our operating segments. Consolidation adjustments consist of
such items to convert the reportable segments’ results, which are predominantly maintained on a
cash basis, to a full accrual basis for external financial statement presentation purposes, and are
not allocated to our operating segments. Likewise, stock option compensation expense and goodwill
and intangible asset impairment charges are not charged to the operating segments. External
corporate interest expense is primarily comprised of interest charges on our senior notes, and is
not charged to the operating segments because the charges are included in the corporate capital
allocation discussed above.

Year Ended December 31,




Homebuilding Consolidated Gross Profit:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

338,586

$

307,525

$

294,699

Homebuilding North East

48,528

42,282

46,607

Homebuilding Mid East

109,579

85,931

104,761

Homebuilding South East

41,074

36,490

60,173

Consolidation adjustments and other (1)

4,699

25,506

(48,548

)

Consolidated homebuilding gross profit

$

542,466

$

497,734

$

457,692


Year Ended December 31,




Homebuilding Consolidated Profit Before Tax:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

209,496

$

185,861

$

103,690

Homebuilding North East

25,090

19,572

13,182

Homebuilding Mid East

56,882

38,012

39,643

Homebuilding South East

10,870

7,384

7,904

Reconciling items:

Contract land deposit impairment
reserve (2)

16,206

42,939

(41,134

)

Equity-based compensation expense (3)

(50,357

)

(43,495

)

(38,681

)

Corporate capital allocation (4)

65,971

61,753

108,509

Unallocated corporate overhead (5)

(55,992

)

(44,103

)

(52,696

)

Consolidation adjustments and other

15,848

4,970

24,437

Impairment of goodwill and
intangible assets (6)

—

—

(11,686

)

Corporate interest expense

(4,546

)

(9,810

)

(12,417

)

Reconciling items sub-total

(12,870

)

12,254

(23,668

)

Homebuilding consolidated profit
before taxes

$

289,468

$

263,083

$

140,751

(1)

The year over year variances in consolidation adjustments and other relates
primarily to changes to the contract land deposit impairment reserve, which are not
allocated to the reportable segments.

(2)

This item represents changes to the contract land deposit impairment reserve,
which are not allocated to the reportable segments. During both 2010 and 2009,
unallocated reserves decreased from the respective prior years primarily as a result of
charging previously reserved land impairments to the operating segments and certain
recoveries of deposits previously determined to be impaired.

(3)

The increase in equity-based compensation expense in 2010 compared to the prior
year was primarily due to the granting of non-qualified stock options and restricted
share units from the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan in the current year. The current year
increase in stock based compensation expense was partially offset by an approximate
$7,000 pre-tax reversal of stock-based compensation expense attributable to an
adjustment of our option forfeiture estimates based on our actual forfeiture
experience.

(4)

This item represents the elimination of the corporate capital allocation charge
included in the respective homebuilding reportable segments. The corporate capital
allocation charge is based on the segment’s monthly average asset balance, and is as
follows for the years presented:

Year Ended December 31,




Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

44,758

$

40,765

$

73,042

Homebuilding North East

5,926

6,473

10,081

Homebuilding Mid East

9,657

8,863

12,902

Homebuilding South East

5,630

5,652

12,484

Total

$

65,971

$

61,753

$

108,509

(5)

The increases in unallocated corporate overhead in 2010 from 2009 is
attributable to increased personnel levels year over year and to higher management
incentive costs as the 2009 incentive plan was limited to a payout of 50% of the
maximum bonus opportunity. The decrease in 2009 from 2008 was primarily driven by a
reduction in personnel and other overhead costs as part of our focus to size our
organization to meet current activity levels.

(6)

The 2008 impairment charge relates to the write-off of goodwill and indefinite
life intangible assets related to the Company’s 2005 acquisition of Rymarc Homes and
the goodwill related to the 1997 acquisition of Fox Ridge Homes.


Mortgage Banking Segment

We conduct our mortgage banking activity through NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. (“NVRM”), a wholly
owned subsidiary. NVRM focuses almost exclusively on serving the homebuilding segment’s customer
base. Following is a table of financial and statistical data for the years ended December 31,
2010, 2009 and 2008:




Loan closing volume:

Total principal

$

2,219,946

$

2,060,376

$

2,351,341

Loan volume mix:

Adjustable rate
mortgages


%


%


%

Fixed-rate mortgages


%


%


%

Operating Profit:

Segment Profit

$

35,704

$

38,138

$

29,227

Equity-based
compensation
expense

(2,779

)

(2,807

)

(2,523

)

Mortgage banking
income before tax

$

32,925

$

35,331

$

26,704

Capture rate:


%


%


%

Mortgage Banking Fees:

Net gain on sale of
loans

$

46,225

$

46,960

$

38,921

Title services

14,108

12,787

14,581

Servicing fees




$

61,134

$

60,381

$

54,337

2010 versus 2009

Loan closing volume for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased 8% from 2009. The 2010
increase was primarily attributable to a 7% increase in the number of units closed and a 1%
increase in the average loan amount year over year. The increases in the number of units closed
and the average loan amount are attributable to the aforementioned increase in the homebuilding
segment’s number of units settled and the increase in the average settlement prices in 2010 as
compared to 2009.

Segment profit for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased approximately $2,400 from 2009.
The decrease in segment profit was primarily attributable to an approximately $5,800 increase in
general and administrative expenses. The increase in general and administrative expenses was
primarily the result of a $6,000 increase in the provision for loan loss compared to 2009. The
$5,800 increase in general and administrative expenses was partially offset by an approximate
$2,500 increase in interest income primarily as a result of the
change in our loan sale distribution channels (refer to Mortgage Banking-Other section below
for additional information).

2009 versus 2008

Loan closing volume for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased 12% from 2008. The 2009
decrease was primarily attributable to a 7% decrease in the number of units closed and a 6%
decrease in the average loan amount year over year. These decreases are attributable to the
aforementioned decrease in the homebuilding segment’s number of units settled and the decrease in
the average settlement prices in 2009 as compared to 2008. The aforementioned decrease in builder
settlements in 2009 compared to 2008, was partially offset by a 6 percentage point increase in the
number of loans closed by NVRM for our homebuyers who obtain a mortgage to purchase the home (“Capture Rate”), which increased to 91% for the period ended
December 31, 2009, compared to 85% for the same period in 2008.


Segment profit for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased approximately $8,900 from 2008.
The increase was partially attributable to an approximate $6,000 increase in mortgage banking fees,
which was primarily the result of a decrease in incentives. The increase was partially offset by a
decrease in fees attributable to the aforementioned decrease in closed loan volume. The increase
in mortgage banking fees for the year ended December 31, 2009 was also partially attributable to an
approximate $440 increase in unrealized income from the fair value measurement of our locked loan
commitments, forward mortgage-backed securities sales, and closed loans held for sale, which is
included in mortgage banking fees. The fair value calculations are classified as Level 2
observable inputs as defined by GAAP (refer to Note 11, in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements for additional information). The aforementioned fair value measurements will be
impacted in the future by the change in the value of the servicing rights and the change in volume
and product mix of our closed loans and locked loan commitments.

The increase in segment profit for the year ended December 31, 2009 was also partially
attributable to an approximate $4,400 decrease in general and administrative expenses compared to
the same period for 2008. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily the
result of a decrease in salary and other personnel costs primarily as the result of an approximate
24% decrease in staffing compared to the same period for 2008.

Mortgage Banking — Other

We sell all of the loans we originate into the secondary mortgage market. Insofar as we
underwrite our originated loans to the standards and specifications of the ultimate investor, we
have no further financial obligations from the issuance of loans, except in certain limited
instances where early payment default occurs. Those underwriting standards are typically equal to
or more stringent than the underwriting standards required by FNMA, VA and FHA. NVRM has always
maintained an allowance for losses on mortgage loans originated that reflects our judgment of the
present loss exposure in the loans that we have originated and sold. The allowance is calculated
based on an analysis of historical experience and anticipated losses on mortgages held for
investment, real estate owned, and specific expected loan repurchases or indemnifications. For the
period January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2010, we have originated approximately $17,200,000 of
mortgage loans and have cumulative actual charges incurred related to mortgage indemnifications and
repurchases of approximately $5,400 during that period. It has been reported that investors have
become increasingly aggressive in looking for any type of underwriting deficiency incurred on loans
that have gone into default to force the seller or the originator of the loans to assume any losses
incurred on the defaulted loans. We have not experienced an abnormal increase in the number of
loans that we have been requested to either repurchase or provide indemnification for losses.
Because we sell all of our loans and do not service them, there is often a substantial delay
between the time that a loan goes into default and the time that the servicer requests us to
reimburse them for losses incurred because of the default. We believe that all of the loans that
we originate are underwritten to the standards and specifications of the ultimate investor to whom
we sell our originated loans. We employ a quality control department to ensure that our
underwriting controls are effective, and further assess the underwriting function as part of our
assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. At December 31, 2010, we had an
allowance for loan losses of approximately $8,200. Although we consider the allowance for loan
losses reflected on the December 31, 2010 balance sheet to be adequate, there can be no assurance
that this allowance will prove to be adequate to cover losses on loans previously originated.

NVRM continues to manage its interest rate risk by entering into optional or mandatory
delivery forward sale contracts to sell whole loans and mortgage-backed securities to
broker/dealers to mitigate the effect of the interest rate risk inherent in providing rate lock
commitments to our borrowers. However, in April 2010, NVRM changed the method by which we deliver
loans into our sale distribution channels in order to increase our profitability. While loans are
still typically sold to investors within 30 days of settlement, the change has resulted in loans
remaining in inventory for a longer period of time than under our previous loan sale channels.
This change has resulted in an increase in the mortgages held for sale balance included in the
consolidated balance sheet for December 31, 2010 compared to previous years and in the related
interest income.


NVRM is dependent on our homebuilding segment’s customers for business. As new orders and
selling
prices of the homebuilding segment decline, NVRM’s operations will also be adversely affected.
In addition, the mortgage segment’s operating results may be adversely affected in future periods
due to the continued tightening and volatility of the credit markets as well as increased
regulation of mortgage lending practices.

Seasonality

Overall, we do not experience material seasonal fluctuations in sales, settlements or loan
closings.

Effective Tax Rate

Our consolidated effective tax rate in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 36.1%, 35.6% and 39.75%,
respectively. The lower effective tax rates in 2010 and 2009 as compared to 2008 were due to the
expiration of certain tax reserves previously established, the amendment of certain prior year
federal and state income tax returns that we believe will result in tax refunds, and changes under
Internal Revenue Code Section 199, domestic manufacturing deduction, that provides us the ability
to obtain a larger tax benefit. In addition, the 2009 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by
Mr. Schar relinquishing his Executive Officer role with us in 2009, generating a tax benefit
related to compensation expense recorded for certain outstanding option grants held by Mr. Schar
that were previously considered to be a permanent non-deductible tax difference.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Pending Adoption

There have not been any pronouncements issued but not yet implemented that we believe will
have a material impact on our financial statements. See Note 1 in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements for discussion of pronouncements adopted in 2010.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Lines of Credit and Notes Payable

Our homebuilding segment has generally provided for its working capital cash requirements
using cash generated from operations, a short-term unsecured working capital revolving credit
facility and the public debt and equity markets. Effective October 27, 2010, we voluntarily
terminated our $300,000 unsecured working capital revolving credit facility which was set to expire
on December 6, 2010. We currently do not intend to enter into a new credit facility; however,
effective October 27, 2010, we entered into an uncommitted collateralized letter of credit facility
to issue letters of credit in our ordinary course of business. See Note 10 in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements for further discussion of letters of credit.

Our mortgage subsidiary, NVRM, provides for its mortgage origination and other operating
activities using cash generated from operations as well as a revolving mortgage repurchase
facility, which is non-recourse to NVR. On July 30, 2010, we renewed and amended our Master
Repurchase Agreement dated August 5, 2008 with U.S. Bank National Association, as Agent and
representative of itself as a Buyer, and the other Buyers thereto (the “Master Repurchase
Agreement”) pursuant to a Second Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement with U.S. Bank National
Association, as Agent and representative of itself as Buyer (“Agent”), and the other Buyers thereto
(together with the Master Repurchase Agreement, the “Repurchase Agreement”). The purpose of the
Repurchase Agreement is to finance the origination of mortgage loans by NVRM. The Repurchase
Agreement provides for loan purchases up to $100,000, subject to certain sub limits. In addition,
the Repurchase Agreement provides for an accordion feature under which NVRM may request that the
aggregate commitments under the Repurchase Agreement be increased to an amount up to $125,000. The
Repurchase Agreement expires on August 2, 2011.

Advances under the Repurchase Agreement carry a Pricing Rate based on the LIBOR Rate plus the
LIBOR Margin, or the Default Pricing Rate, as determined under the Repurchase Agreement, provided
that the Pricing Rate shall not be less than 4.5%. Prior to the July 30, 2010 renewal date, the
Pricing Rate was based on LIBOR plus LIBOR Margin, or at NVRM’s option, the Balance Funded Rate,
which included credit for


compensating balances. Under the Repurchase Agreement, we may enter into
separate agreements with the Buyers party to the Repurchase Agreement, adjusting the Pricing Rate
in effect. These separate agreements do
not effect the maximum aggregate commitment available under the Repurchase Agreement. There
are several restrictions on purchased loans, including that they cannot be sold to others, they
cannot be pledged to anyone other than the agent, and they cannot support any other borrowing or
repurchase agreement. The average Pricing Rate on outstanding balances at December 31, 2010 was
4.1%. The average Pricing Rate for amounts outstanding under the previous Repurchase Agreement at
December 31, 2009 was 4.1%.

At December 31, 2010, there was $90,338 outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement, which is
included in the mortgage banking segment’s “Note payable” in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet. Amounts outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement are collateralized by the our mortgage
loans held for sale, which are included in assets in the December 31, 2010 balance sheet in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements. There were no borrowing base limitations at
December 31, 2010.

The Repurchase Agreement contains various affirmative and negative covenants with which NVRM
must comply. The negative covenants include among others, certain limitations on transactions
involving acquisitions, mergers, the incurrence of debt, sale of assets and creation of liens upon
any of its Mortgage Notes. Additional covenants include (i) a tangible net worth requirement, (ii)
a minimum liquidity requirement, (iii) a minimum tangible net worth ratio, (iv) a minimum net
income requirement, and (v) a maximum leverage ratio requirement. We were in compliance with all
covenants under the Repurchase Agreement at December 31, 2010.

On June 17, 2003, we completed an offering, at par, for $200,000 of 5% Senior Notes due 2010
(the “Senior Notes”) under a shelf registration statement filed in 1998 with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Senior Notes bore interest at 5%, payable semi-annually in
arrears on June 15 and December 15. Upon their maturity on June 15, 2010, we redeemed the
remaining $133,370 in outstanding Senior Notes upon maturity at par.

On September 8, 2008, we filed a shelf registration statement (the “2008 Shelf Registration”)
with the SEC to register for future offer and sale an unlimited amount of debt securities, common
shares, preferred shares, depositary shares representing preferred shares and warrants. We expect
to use the proceeds received from future offerings, if any, issued under the 2008 Shelf
Registration for general corporate purposes. This discussion of NVR’s shelf registration capacity
does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale.

Equity Repurchases

In addition to funding growth in our homebuilding and mortgage banking operations, we
historically have used a substantial portion of our excess liquidity to repurchase outstanding
shares of our common stock in open market and privately negotiated transactions. This ongoing
repurchase activity is conducted pursuant to publicly announced Board authorizations, and is
typically executed in accordance with the safe-harbor provisions of Rule 10b-18 promulgated under
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In addition, the Board resolutions
authorizing us to repurchase shares of our common stock specifically prohibit us from purchasing
shares from our officers, directors, Profit Sharing/401K Plan Trust or Employee Stock Ownership
Plan Trust. The repurchase program assists us in accomplishing our primary objective, creating
increases in shareholder value. See Part II, Item 5 of this Form 10-K for disclosure of amounts
repurchased during the fourth quarter of 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we
repurchased 644,562 shares of our common stock at an aggregate purchase price of $417,079. As of
December 31, 2010, we had $109,200 available under a $300,000 board approved repurchase
authorization.

Cash Flows

For the year ended December 31, 2010, cash and cash equivalents decreased by $56,400. Net
cash provided by operating activities was $55,388. Cash was provided primarily by homebuilding
operations and was used to fund increases to contract land deposits. The presentation of operating
cash flows was reduced by $63,558, which is the amount of the excess tax benefit realized from the
exercise of stock options and deferred


compensation during 2010 and credited directly to additional
paid in capital. Investing activities provided net cash of $212,440, primarily due to the net
redemption of $219,535 in marketable securities at maturity during the year. Net cash used by
financing activities was $324,228. During 2010, we repurchased 644,562 shares of our
common stock at an aggregate purchase price of $417,079 under our ongoing common stock repurchase
program as discussed above. In addition, we redeemed the remaining outstanding 5% Senior Notes due
2010, totaling $133,370, upon their maturity on June 15, 2010. Stock option exercise activity
during 2010 provided $77,492 in exercise proceeds and we realized $63,558 in excess income tax
benefits from the exercise of stock options and deferred compensation plan distributions. We also
increased net borrowings under the mortgage warehouse facility by $77,579 due to a change in the
distribution channel for the sale of mortgage loans closed, as discussed previously in the Mortgage
Banking Segment discussion.

In 2009, cash and cash equivalents increased by approximately $102,500. Operating activities
provided cash of $241,642. Cash was provided primarily by homebuilding operations and by an
approximate $32,400 decrease in mortgage loans held for sale. The presentation of operating cash
flows was reduced by approximately $66,400, which is the amount of the excess tax benefit realized
from the exercise of stock options and deferred compensation during the period and credited
directly to additional paid in capital. Net cash used for investing activities during 2009 was
$221,617 for the year ended December 31, 2009, which primarily resulted from the net purchase of
marketable securities during 2009. The marketable securities, which were debt securities issued by
the U.S. Treasury and other U.S. government corporations and agencies, were classified as
held-to-maturity securities and matured within one year. Net cash provided by financing activities
during 2009 was $82,482. Financing cash flow was favorably impacted by approximately $78,500 of
proceeds from the exercise of stock options and deferred compensation and the realization of
approximately $66,400 in excess income tax benefits from the exercise of stock options. Cash was
used by financing activities to reduce net borrowings under the mortgage warehouse facility by
approximately $32,200 and we repurchased $29,950 of our 5% Senior Notes due 2010, at par during
2009.

In 2008, cash and cash equivalents increased by approximately $483,000. Operating activities
provided cash of $462,361. Cash was provided primarily by homebuilding operations and a reduction
in our homebuilding inventories of approximately $288,000 due to a reduction in the number of homes
under construction at the end of 2008 as compared to the same period in 2007. Operating cash flow
was reduced by a decrease in our customer deposits of approximately $66,000. The presentation of
operating cash flows was also reduced by approximately $50,000, which is the amount of the excess
tax benefit realized from the exercise of stock options during the period and credited directly to
additional paid in capital. Cash used for investing activities of $5,498 in 2008, was used
primarily for property and equipment purchases. Financing activities in 2008 provided $26,571 due
primarily to proceeds from the exercise of stock options of approximately $52,000 and the
realization of approximately $50,000 in excess income tax benefits from the exercise of stock
options. Cash was used in financing activities to reduce net borrowings under the mortgage
warehouse facility by approximately $39,000 and to repurchase $36,680 of our 5% Senior Notes due
2010 at a cost of approximately $36,400.

At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the homebuilding segment had restricted cash of
approximately $22,889, $4,600 and $4,500, respectively. The increase in restricted cash in 2010 is
primarily attributable to holding requirements related to outstanding letters of credit issued
under our letter of credit agreement as discussed further in Note 10 in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements. In addition, restricted cash relates to customer deposits for
certain home sales.

We believe that our current cash holdings, cash generated from operations and borrowings
available under our mortgage repurchase agreement and the public debt and equity markets will be
sufficient to satisfy near and long term cash requirements for working capital and debt service in
both our homebuilding and mortgage banking operations.


Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

Lot Acquisition Strategy

We generally do not engage in land development. Instead, we typically acquire finished
building lots at market prices from various land developers under fixed price purchase agreements
that require deposits that may be forfeited if we fail to perform under the agreement. The deposits
required under the purchase agreements are in the form of cash or letters of credit in varying
amounts and represent a percentage, typically ranging up to 10%, of the aggregate purchase price of
the finished lots.

We believe that our lot acquisition strategy reduces the financial requirements and risks
associated with direct land ownership and land development. We may, at our option, choose for any
reason and at any time not to perform under these purchase agreements by delivering notice of our
intent not to acquire the finished lots under contract. Our sole legal obligation and economic
loss for failure to perform under these purchase agreements is limited to the amount of the deposit
pursuant to the liquidated damage provision contained within the purchase agreements. We do not
have any financial guarantees or completion obligations and we typically do not guarantee lot
purchases on a specific performance basis under these purchase agreements.

At December 31, 2010, we controlled approximately 50,400 lots with an aggregate purchase price
of approximately $4,600,000, by making or committing to make deposits of approximately $180,900 in
the form of cash and letters of credit. Our entire risk of loss pertaining to the aggregate
purchase price contractual commitment resulting from our non-performance under the contracts is
limited to the $180,900 deposit. Of the $180,900 deposit total, approximately $174,300 is in cash
and approximately $6,600 is in letters of credit which have been issued as of December 31, 2010.
Subsequent to December 31, 2010, we will pay approximately $43,200 in additional deposits assuming
that contractual development milestones are met by the developers (see Contractual Obligations
section below). As of December 31, 2010, we had recorded an impairment valuation allowance of
approximately $73,500 related to the cash deposits currently outstanding. Please refer to Note 1
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the contract land
deposits and Note 3 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of our
lot acquisition strategy in relation to our accounting related to the consolidation of variable
interest entities

.

Bonds and Letters of Credit

We enter into bond or letter of credit arrangements with local municipalities, government
agencies, or land developers to collateralize our obligations under various contracts. We had
approximately $38,300 of contingent obligations under such agreements as of December 31, 2010
(inclusive of the $6,600 of lot acquisition deposits in the form of letters of credit discussed
above). We believe we will fulfill our obligations under the related contracts and do not
anticipate any material losses under these bonds or letters of credit.

Mortgage Commitments and Forward Sales

In the normal course of business, our mortgage banking segment enters into contractual
commitments to extend credit to buyers of single-family homes with fixed expiration dates. The
commitments become effective when the borrowers “lock-in” a specified interest rate within time
frames established by us. All mortgagors are evaluated for credit worthiness prior to the
extension of the commitment. Market risk arises if interest rates move adversely between the time
of the “lock-in” of rates by the borrower and the sale date of the loan to a broker/dealer. To
mitigate the effect of the interest rate risk inherent in providing rate lock commitments to
borrowers, we enter into optional or mandatory delivery forward sale contracts to sell whole loans
and mortgage-backed securities to broker/dealers. The forward sale contracts lock in an interest
rate and price for the sale of loans similar to the specific rate lock commitments. We do not
engage in speculative or trading derivative activities. Both the rate lock commitments to
borrowers and the forward sale contracts to broker/dealers are undesignated derivatives, and,
accordingly, are marked to fair value through earnings. At December 31, 2010, there were
contractual commitments to extend credit to borrowers aggregating $96,265 and open forward delivery
contracts aggregating $262,839. Please refer to Note 11 in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of our fair value accounting.


Contractual Obligations

Our fixed, non-cancelable obligations as of December 31, 2010, were as follows:

Payments due by period

Less than

1-3

3-5

More than

Total

1 year

years

years

5 years

Debt (a)

$

90,338

$

90,338

$

—

$

—

$

—

Capital leases (b)

2,359


1,288


—

Operating leases (c)

74,408

19,014

24,020

14,448

16,926

Purchase
obligations (d)

43,178

*

*

*

*

Executive Officer
employment
contracts (e)

9,323

1,863

3,730

3,730

—

Other long-term
liabilities (f)

$

28,963

28,377


—

—

Total

$

248,569

$

139,938

$

29,624

$

18,903

$

16,926

(a)

See Note 6 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional
information regarding debt and related matters.

(b)

The present value of these obligations is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. See
Note 6 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information
regarding capital lease obligations.

(c)

See Note 10 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information
regarding operating leases.

(d)(*)

Amounts represent required payments of forfeitable deposits with land developers under
existing, fixed price purchase agreements, assuming that contractual development milestones
are met by the developers. We expect to make all payments of these deposits within the next
three years, but due to the nature of the contractual development milestones that must be met,
we are unable to accurately estimate the portion of the deposit obligation that will be made
within one year and that portion that will be made within one to three years.

(e)

We have entered into employment agreements with four of our executive officers. Each of the
agreements expires on January 1, 2016 and provides for payment of a minimum base salary, which
may be increased at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of NVR’s Board of Directors
(the “Compensation Committee”), and annual incentive compensation of up to 100% of base salary
upon achievement of annual performance objectives established by the Compensation Committee.
The agreements also provide for payment of severance benefits upon termination of employment,
in amounts ranging from $0 to two times the executive officer’s then annual base salary,
depending on the reason for termination, plus up to $100 in outplacement assistance.
Accordingly, total payments under these agreements will vary based on length of service, any
future increases to base salaries, annual incentive payments earned, and the reason for
termination. The agreements have been reflected in the above table assuming the continued
employment of the executive officers for the full term of the respective agreements, and at
the executive officers’ current base salaries. The above balances do not include any
potential annual incentive compensation. The actual amounts paid could differ from that
presented.

(f)

Amounts represent payments due under incentive compensation plans and are included on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, approximately $2,900 of which is recorded in the Mortgage Banking
accounts payable and other liabilities line item.

Critical Accounting Policies

General

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in
the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported


amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses during the reporting periods. We continually evaluate the estimates we use to prepare the
consolidated financial statements and update those estimates as necessary. In general, our
estimates are based on historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and
other various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances.
Actual results could differ materially from those estimates made by management.

Homebuilding Inventory

The carrying value of inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value. Cost of lots
and completed and uncompleted housing units represent the accumulated actual cost of the units.
Field construction supervisors’ salaries and related direct overhead expenses are included in
inventory costs. Interest costs are not capitalized into inventory, with the exception of land
under development. Upon settlement, the cost of the unit is expensed on a specific identification
basis. Cost of manufacturing materials is determined on a first-in, first-out basis.

Sold inventory is evaluated for impairment based on the contractual selling price compared to
the total estimated cost to construct. Unsold inventory is evaluated for impairment by analyzing
recent comparable sales prices within the applicable community compared to the costs incurred to
date plus the expected costs to complete. Any calculated impairments are recorded immediately.

Land Under Development and Contract Land Deposits

Land Under Development

On a very limited basis, we directly acquire raw parcels of land already zoned for its
intended use to develop into finished lots. Land under development includes the land acquisition
costs, direct improvement costs, capitalized interest, where applicable, and real estate taxes.

Land under development, including the land under development held by our unconsolidated joint
ventures and the related joint venture investments, is reviewed for potential write-downs when
impairment indicators are present. In addition to considering market and economic conditions, we
assess land under development impairments on a community-by-community basis, analyzing, as
applicable, current sales absorption levels, recent sales’ gross profit, and the dollar
differential between the projected fully-developed cost of the lots and the current market price
for lots. If indicators of impairment are present for a community, we perform an analysis to
determine if the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than
their carrying amounts, and if so, impairment charges are required to be recorded if the fair value
of such assets is less than their carrying amounts. For those assets deemed to be impaired, the
impairment to be recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset
exceeds the fair value of the assets. Our determination of fair value is primarily based on
discounting the estimated future cash flows at a rate commensurate with the inherent risks
associated with the asset and related estimated cash flow streams. We do not believe that any of
the land under development, all of which was acquired during 2010, is impaired at this time.
However, there can be no assurance that we will not incur impairment charges in the future due to
unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or other events adversely affecting specific markets
or the homebuilding industry.

Contract Land Deposits

We purchase finished lots under fixed price purchase agreements that require deposits that may
be forfeited if we fail to perform under the contract. The deposits are in the form of cash or
letters of credit in varying amounts and represent a percentage of the aggregate purchase price of
the finished lots.

We maintain an allowance for losses on contract land deposits that reflects our judgment of
the present loss exposure in the existing contract land deposit portfolio at the end of the
reporting period. To analyze contract land deposit impairments, we utilize a loss contingency
analysis that is conducted each quarter. In


addition to considering market and economic conditions, we assess contract land deposit
impairments on a community-by-community basis pursuant to the purchase contract terms, analyzing,
as applicable, current sales absorption levels, recent sales’ gross profit, the dollar differential
between the contractual purchase price and the current market price for lots, a developer’s
financial stability, a developer’s financial ability or willingness to reduce lot prices to current
market prices, and the contract’s default status by either us or the developer along with an
analysis of the expected outcome of any such default.

Our analysis is focused on whether we can sell houses profitably in a particular community in
the current market with which we are faced. Because we don’t own the finished lots on which we had
placed a contract land deposit, if the above analysis leads to a determination that we can’t sell
homes profitably at the current contractual lot price, we then determine whether we will elect to
default under the contract, forfeit our deposit and terminate the contract, or whether we will
attempt to restructure the lot purchase contract, which may require us to forfeit the deposit to
obtain contract concessions from a developer. We also assess whether an impairment is present due
to collectability issues resulting from a developer’s non-performance because of financial or other
conditions.

Although we consider the allowance for losses on contract land deposits reflected on the
December 31, 2010 balance sheet to be adequate (see Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated
financial statements included herein), there can be no assurance that this allowance will prove to
be adequate over time to cover losses due to unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or other
events adversely affecting specific markets or the homebuilding industry.

Intangible Assets

Reorganization value in excess of identifiable assets (“excess reorganization value”) is an
indefinite life intangible asset that was created upon our emergence from bankruptcy on September
30, 1993. Based on the allocation of our reorganization value, the portion of our reorganization
value which was not attributed to specific tangible or intangible assets has been reported as
excess reorganization value, which is treated similarly to goodwill. Excess reorganization value
is not subject to amortization. Rather, excess reorganization value is subject to an impairment
assessment on an annual basis or more frequently if changes in events or circumstances indicate
that impairment may have occurred. Because excess reorganization value was based on the
reorganization value of our entire enterprise upon bankruptcy emergence, the impairment assessment
is conducted on an enterprise basis based on the comparison of our total equity compared to the
market value of our outstanding publicly-traded common stock. We do not believe that excess
reorganization value is impaired at this time. However, changes in strategy or continued adverse
changes in market conditions could impact this judgment and require an impairment loss to be
recognized if our book value, including excess reorganization value, exceeds the fair value.

Warranty

/

Product Liability Accruals

Warranty and product liability accruals are established to provide for estimated future costs
as a result of construction and product defects, product recalls and litigation incidental to our
business. Liability estimates are determined based on our judgment considering such factors as
historical experience, the likely current cost of corrective action, manufacturers’ and
subcontractors’ participation in sharing the cost of corrective action, consultations with third
party experts such as engineers, and evaluations by our General Counsel and outside counsel
retained to handle specific product liability cases. Although we consider the warranty and product
liability accrual reflected on the December 31, 2010 balance sheet to be adequate (see Note 10 to
the accompanying consolidated financial statements included herein), there can be no assurance that
this accrual will prove to be adequate over time to cover losses due to increased costs for
material and labor, the inability or refusal of manufacturers or subcontractors to financially
participate in corrective action, unanticipated adverse legal settlements, or other unanticipated
changes to the assumptions used to estimate the warranty and product liability accrual.


Stock-Based Compensation Expense

Compensation costs related to our stock based compensation plans are recognized within our
income statement. The costs recognized are based on the grant date fair value. Compensation
cost for share-based grants is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service
period for the entire award (from the date of grant through the period of the last separately
vesting portion of the grant).

We calculate the fair value of our non-publicly traded, employee stock options using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model. While the Black-Scholes model is a widely accepted method to
calculate the fair value of options, its results are dependent on input variables, two of which,
expected term and expected volatility, are significantly dependent on management’s judgment. We
have concluded that our historical exercise experience is the best estimate of future exercise
patterns to determine an option’s expected term. To estimate expected volatility, we analyze the
historical volatility of our common stock over a period equal to the option’s expected term.
Changes in management’s judgment of the expected term and the expected volatility could have a
material effect on the grant-date fair value calculated and expensed within the income statement.
In addition, we are required to estimate future grant forfeitures when considering the amount of
stock-based compensation costs to record. We have concluded that our historical forfeiture rate
is the best measure to base our estimate of future forfeitures of equity-based compensation
grants. However, there can be no assurance that our future forfeiture rate will not be
materially higher or lower than our historical forfeiture rate, which would affect the aggregate
cumulative compensation expense recognized.

Mortgage Loan Loss Allowance

We originate several different loan products to our customers to finance the purchase of their
home. We sell all of the loans we originate into the secondary mortgage market generally within 30
days from origination. All of the loans that we originate are underwritten to the standards and
specifications of the ultimate investor. Those underwriting standards are typically equal to or
more stringent than the underwriting standards required by FNMA, VA and FHA. Insofar as we
underwrite our originated loans to those standards, we bear no increased concentration of credit
risk from the issuance of loans, except in certain limited instances where early payment default
occurs. We employ a quality control department to ensure that our underwriting controls are
effectively operating, and further assess the underwriting function as part of our assessment of
internal controls over financial reporting. We maintain an allowance for losses on mortgage loans
originated that reflects our judgment of the present loss exposure in the loans that we have
originated and sold. The allowance is calculated based on an analysis of historical experience and
anticipated losses on mortgages held for investment, real estate owned, and specific expected loan
repurchases or indemnifications. Although we consider the allowance for loan losses reflected on
the December 31, 2010 balance sheet to be adequate (see Note 12 to the accompanying consolidated
financial statements included herein), there can be no assurance that this allowance will prove to
be adequate over time to cover losses due to unanticipated changes to the assumptions used to
estimate the mortgage loan loss allowance.

Impact of Inflation, Changing Prices and Economic Conditions

See Risk Factors included in Item 1A herein. See also the discussion above under Overview of
Current Business Environment.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.

Market risk is the risk of loss arising from adverse changes in market prices and interest
rates. Our market risk arises from interest rate risk inherent in our financial instruments.
Interest rate risk results from the possibility that changes in interest rates will cause
unfavorable changes in net income or in the value of interest rate-sensitive assets, liabilities
and commitments. Lower interest rates tend to increase demand for mortgage loans for home
purchasers, while higher interest rates make it more difficult for potential borrowers to purchase
residential properties and to qualify for mortgage loans. We have no market rate sensitive
instruments held for speculative or trading purposes.


Our mortgage banking segment is exposed to interest rate risk as it relates to its lending
activities. The mortgage banking segment originates mortgage loans, which are sold through either
optional or mandatory forward delivery contracts into the secondary markets. All of the mortgage
banking segment’s loan portfolio is held for sale and subject to forward sale commitments. NVRM
also sells all of its mortgage servicing rights on a servicing released basis.

NVRM generates operating liquidity primarily through the mortgage Repurchase Agreement, which
provides for loan repurchases up to $100,000, subject to certain sub limits. The Repurchase
Agreement is used to fund NVRM’s mortgage origination activities. Advances under the Repurchase
Agreement carry a Pricing Rate based on the LIBOR Rate plus the LIBOR Margin, or the Default
Pricing Rate, as determined under the Repurchase Agreement, provided that the Pricing Rate shall
not be less than 4.5%. Under the Repurchase Agreement, we may enter into separate agreements with
the Buyers party to the Repurchase Agreement, adjusting the Pricing Rate in effect. The
average Pricing Rate on outstanding balances at December 31, 2010 was 4.1%.

The following table represents the contractual balances of our on-balance sheet financial
instruments at the expected maturity dates, as well as the fair values of those on-balance sheet
financial instruments at December 31, 2010. The expected maturity categories take into
consideration the actual and anticipated amortization of principal and do not take into
consideration the reinvestment of cash or the refinancing of existing indebtedness. Because we
sell all of the mortgage loans we originate into the secondary markets, we have made the assumption
that the portfolio of mortgage loans held for sale will mature in the first year. Consequently,
advances outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement are also assumed to mature in the first year.


Maturities (000’s)

Fair






Thereafter

Total

Value

Mortgage banking segment

Interest rate sensitive
assets:

Mortgage loans held for
sale

$

181,697

—

—

—

—

—

$

181,697

$

177,244

Average interest rate

4.2

%

—

—

—

—

—

4.2

%

Interest rate sensitive
liabilities:

Variable rate repurchase
agreement

$

90,338

—

—

—

—

—

$

90,338

$

90,338

Average interest rate (a)

4.1

%

—

—

—

—

—

4.1

%

Other:

Forward trades of
mortgage-backed securities (b)

$

4,904

—

—

—

—

—

$

4,904

$

4,904

Forward loan commitments
(b)


—

—

—

—

—



Homebuilding segment

Interest rate sensitive
assets:

Interest-bearing deposits

$

1,163,623

—

—

—

—

—

$

1,163,623

$

1,163,623

Average interest rate

0.3

%

—

—

—

—

—

0.3

%

Interest rate sensitive
liabilities:

Fixed rate obligations

$


$


$


$


$


$

—

$

2,359

$

2,359

Average interest rate

13.1

%

13.2

%

13.3

%

13.9

%

14.1

%

13.2

%

(a)

Average interest rate is net of credits received for compensating cash balances.

(b)

Represents the fair value recorded pursuant to ASC 815,

Derivatives and Hedging

.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The financial statements listed in Item 15 are filed as part of this report and are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures.

Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures

As of the end of the period covered by this report, an evaluation was performed under the
supervision and with the participation of our management, including the principal executive officer
and principal financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.

Based on that evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer
concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures as of December
31, 2010 were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed
in our reports under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rules and
forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.

There have been no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting identified in
connection with the evaluation referred to above that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities and Exchange
Act of 1934. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our
principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in

Internal
Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in

Internal Control — Integrated
Framework

, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of December 31, 2010. Our internal control over financial reporting as of December
31, 2010 has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated
in their attestation report which is included herein.

Item 9B.

Other Information.

None.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance.

Item 10 is hereby incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement expected to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2011. Reference is also made
regarding our executive officers to “Executive Officers of the Registrant” following Item 4 of Part
I of this report.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation.

Item 11 is hereby incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement expected to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2011.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters.

Security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management is hereby incorporated by
reference to our Proxy Statement expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
on or prior to April 30, 2011.

Equity Compensation Plan Information

The table below sets forth information as of the end of our 2010 fiscal year for (i) all
equity compensation plans approved by our shareholders and (ii) all equity compensation plans not
approved by our shareholders:

Number of

securities

remaining available

Number of

for future issuance

securities to be

under equity

issued upon

Weighted-average

compensation plans

exercise of

exercise price of

(excluding

outstanding

outstanding

securities

options, warrants

options, warrants

reflected in the

Plan category

and rights

and rights

first column)

Equity compensation plans
approved by security
holders (1)

533,638

$

469.99

270,247

Equity compensation plans
not approved by security
holders

669,514

$

458.02

—

Total

1,203,152

$

463.33

270,247

(1)

This category includes the restricted share units (“RSUs”) authorized by
the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, which was approved by our shareholders at the
May 4, 2010 Annual Meeting. At December 31, 2010, there are 149,727 RSUs
outstanding, issued at a $0 exercise price. Of the total 270,247 shares
remaining available for future issuance, up to 90,273 may be issued as RSUs.

Equity compensation plans approved by our shareholders include the NVR, Inc. Management
Long-Term Stock Option Plan; the NVR, Inc. 1998 Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan; the 1998
Directors’ Long-Term Stock Option Plan; and the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. The only equity
compensation plan that


was not approved by our shareholders is the NVR, Inc. 2000 Broadly-Based
Stock Option Plan. See Note 9 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a
description of each of our equity compensation plans.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
Independence.

Item 13 is hereby incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement expected to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2011.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services.

Item 14 is hereby incorporated by reference to our Proxy Statement expected to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission on or prior to April 30, 2011.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.

Financial Statements

NVR, Inc. — Consolidated Financial Statements

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

Consolidated Balance Sheets

Consolidated Statements of Income

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

2.

Exhibits

Exhibit

Number

Description

3.1

Restated Articles of Incorporation of NVR, Inc. (“NVR”). Filed herewith.

3.2

Bylaws, as amended, of NVR, Inc. Filed herewith.

4.1

Indenture dated as of April 14, 1998 between NVR, as issuer and the
Bank of New York as trustee. Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to NVR’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed April 23, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference.

4.2

Form of Note (included in Indenture filed as Exhibit 4.1).

10.1*

Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and Paul C. Saville dated
December 21, 2010. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to NVR’s Form 8-K filed on December 21,
2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.2*

Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and Dennis M. Seremet dated
December 21, 2010. Filed as Exhibit 10.2 to NVR’s Form 8-K filed on December
21, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.3*

Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and Robert A. Goethe dated
December 21, 2010. Filed as Exhibit 10.3 to NVR’s Form 8-K filed on December 21,
2010 and incorporated herein by reference.


Exhibit

Number

Description

10.4*

Employment Agreement between NVR, Inc. and Robert W. Henley dated
December 21, 2010. Filed as Exhibit 10.4 to NVR’s Form 8-K filed on December 21,
2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.5*

Profit Sharing Plan of NVR, Inc. and Affiliated Companies. Filed as
Exhibit 4.1 to NVR’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-29241) filed
June 13, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.6*

Employee Stock Ownership Plan of NVR, Inc. Incorporated by
reference to NVR’s Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31,
1994.

10.7*

NVR, Inc. 1998 Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan. Filed as
Exhibit 4 to NVR’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-79951) filed June
4, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.8*

NVR, Inc. 1998 Directors’ Long-Term Stock Option Plan. Filed as
Exhibit 4 to NVR’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-79949) filed June
4, 1999 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.09*

NVR, Inc. Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan. Filed as Exhibit 99.3 to
NVR’s Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-04975) filed May 31, 1996 and
incorporated herein by reference.

10.10*

NVR, Inc. 2000 Broadly-Based Stock Option Plan. Filed as Exhibit 99.1 to NVR’s
Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-56732) filed March 8, 2001 and
incorporated herein by reference.

10.11*

NVR, Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
NVR’s Form 8-K filed on December 16, 2005 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.12*

Description of the Board of Directors’ compensation arrangement. Filed as
Exhibit 10.27 to NVR’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December
31, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.13*

The NVR, Inc. 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. Filed as exhibit 10.1 to NVR’s Form S-8
filed on May 4, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.14*

The Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (Management grants) under the
NVR, Inc. 2010 Equity incentive Plan. Filed as exhibit 10.1 to NVR’s Form 8-K
filed on May 6, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.15*

The Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (Director grants) under the NVR,
Inc. 2010 Equity incentive Plan. Filed as exhibit 10.2 to NVR’s Form 8-K filed on
May 6, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.16*

The Form of Restricted Share Units Agreement (Management grants) under the
NVR, Inc. 2010 Equity incentive Plan. Filed as exhibit 10.3 to NVR’s Form 8-K
filed on May 6, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.17*

The Form of Restricted Share Units Agreement (Director grants) under the NVR,
Inc. 2010 Equity incentive Plan. Filed as exhibit 10.4 to NVR’s Form
8-K filed on May 6, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.18

Director Resignation Agreement with all Class II director nominees
and current Class I directors, dated February 22, 2010. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to
NVR’s Form 8-K filed February 23, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference.


Exhibit

Number

Description

10.19*

The Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the NVR, Inc. 2000
Broadly Based Stock Option Plan. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to NVR’s Form 8-K filed
January 3, 2008 and incorporated herein by reference.

10.20*

The Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 1998 Directors’
Long-Term Stock Option Plan. Filed as Exhibit 10.34 to NVR’s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007 and incorporated herein by
reference.

10.21

Repurchase Agreement dated August 5, 2008 among NVR Finance and U.S.
Bank National Association, as Agent, and other lenders party thereto. Filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to NVR’s Form 8-K filed on August 8, 2008 and incorporated herein by
reference.

10.22*

Summary of 2011 Named Executive Officer annual incentive compensation plan.
Filed herewith.

10.23

First Amendment to Repurchase Agreement dated August 5, 2008 among
NVR Finance and U.S. Bank National Association, as agent and a Buyer, and the
other Buyers. Filed as Exhibit 10.1 to NVR’s Form 8-K filed August 7, 2009 and
incorporated herein by reference.

10.24

Second Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement dated July 30, 2010
among U.S. Bank National Association, as Agent and a Buyer, the other Buyers
party hereto and NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc., as Seller. Filed as Exhibit 10.6 to
NVR’s Quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended June 30, 2010 and
incorporated herein by reference.


NVR, Inc. Subsidiaries. Filed herewith.


Consent of KPMG LLP (Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm).
Filed herewith.

31.1

Certification of NVR’s Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a). Filed herewith.

31.2

Certification of NVR’s Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule
13a-14(a). Filed herewith.


Certification of NVR’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Filed herewith.

101.INS

XBRL Instance Document

101.SCH

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

101.CAL

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document

101.DEF

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document

101.LAB

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document

101.PRE

XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document

*

Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ Dwight C. Schar

Dwight C. Schar

Chairman

February 25, 2011

/s/ C. E. Andrews

C. E. Andrews

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ Robert C. Butler

Robert C. Butler

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ Timothy M. Donahue

Timothy M. Donahue

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ Alfred E. Festa

Alfred E. Festa

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ Manuel H. Johnson

Manuel H. Johnson

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ William A. Moran

William A. Moran

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ David A. Preiser

David A. Preiser

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ W. Grady Rosier

W. Grady Rosier

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ John M. Toups

John M. Toups

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ Paul W. Whetsell

Paul W. Whetsell

Director

February 25, 2011

/s/ Paul C. Saville

Paul C. Saville

Principal Executive Officer

February 25, 2011

/s/ Dennis M. Seremet

Dennis M. Seremet

Principal Financial Officer

February 25, 2011

/s/ Robert W. Henley

Robert W. Henley

Principal Accounting Officer

February 25, 2011


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

NVR, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of NVR, Inc. and subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010. These
consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of NVR, Inc. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), NVR, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2010, based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated
February 25, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control over financial reporting

.

KPMG LLP

McLean, Virginia

February 25, 2011


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

NVR, Inc.:

We have audited NVR, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010,
based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). NVR, Inc.’s management is responsible
for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, NVR, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of NVR, Inc. as of December 31, 2010 and
2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for
each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2010, and our report dated February
25, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements.

KPMG LLP

McLean, Virginia

February 25, 2011


NVR, Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets

(in thousands, except share and per share data)

December 31,



ASSETS

Homebuilding:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

1,190,731

$

1,248,689

Marketable securities

—

219,535

Receivables

6,948

7,995

Inventory:

Lots and housing units, covered under
sales agreements with customers

275,272

337,523

Unsold lots and housing units

70,542

73,673

Land under development

78,058

—

Manufacturing materials and other

7,457

7,522

431,329

418,718

Assets related to consolidated variable interest entities

22,371

70,430

Contract land deposits, net

100,786

49,906

Property, plant and equipment, net

19,523

20,215

Reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable
to identifiable assets, net

41,580

41,580

Deferred tax assets, net

184,930

200,340

Other assets

58,075

58,319

2,056,273

2,335,727

Mortgage Banking:

Cash and cash equivalents

2,661

1,461

Mortgage loans held for sale, net

177,244

40,097

Property and equipment, net



Reorganization value in excess of amounts allocable
to identifiable assets, net

7,347

7,347

Other assets

15,586

10,692

203,788

60,043

Total assets

$

2,260,061

$

2,395,770

(Continued)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


NVR, Inc.

Consolidated Balance Sheets (Continued)

(in thousands, except share and per share data)

December 31,



LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Homebuilding:

Accounts payable

$

115,578

$

120,464

Accrued expenses and other liabilities

237,052

221,352

Liabilities related to consolidated variable interest entities


65,915

Non-recourse debt related to consolidated variable
interest entities

7,592

—

Customer deposits

53,705

63,591

Other term debt

1,751

2,166

Senior notes

—

133,370

416,178

606,858

Mortgage Banking:

Accounts payable and other liabilities

13,171

19,306

Note payable

90,338

12,344

103,509

31,650

Total liabilities

519,687

638,508

Commitments and contingencies

Shareholders’ equity:

Common stock, $0.01 par value; 60,000,000 shares
authorized; 20,557,913 and 20,559,671 shares
issued as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively



Additional paid-in-capital

951,234

830,531

Deferred compensation trust — 158,894 and 265,278
shares of NVR, Inc. common stock as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively

(27,582

)

(40,799

)

Deferred compensation liability

27,582

40,799

Retained earnings

4,029,072

3,823,067

Less treasury stock at cost — 14,894,357 and 14,609,560
shares as of December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively

(3,240,138

)

(2,896,542

)

Total shareholders’ equity

1,740,374

1,757,262

Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity

$

2,260,061

$

2,395,770

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


NVR, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Income

(in thousands, except per share data)

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Homebuilding:

Revenues

$

2,980,758

$

2,683,467

$

3,638,702

Other income

9,299

8,697

16,386

Cost of sales

(2,438,292

)

(2,185,733

)

(3,181,010

)

Selling, general and administrative

(257,394

)

(233,152

)

(308,739

)

Operating income

294,371

273,279

165,339

Interest expense

(4,903

)

(10,196

)

(12,902

)

Goodwill and intangible asset impairment

—

—

(11,686

)

Homebuilding income

289,468

263,083

140,751

Mortgage Banking:

Mortgage banking fees

61,134

60,381

54,337

Interest income

5,411

2,979

3,955

Other income




General and administrative

(33,261

)

(27,474

)

(31,579

)

Interest expense

(1,126

)

(1,184

)

(754

)

Mortgage banking income

32,925

35,331

26,704

Income before taxes

322,393

298,414

167,455

Income tax expense

(116,388

)

(106,234

)

(66,563

)

Net income

$

206,005

$

192,180

$

100,892

Basic earnings per share

$

34.96

$

33.10

$

18.76

Diluted earnings per share

$

33.42

$

31.26

$

17.04

Basic weighted average shares outstanding

5,893

5,807

5,379

Diluted weighted average shares outstanding

6,165

6,149

5,920

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


NVR, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’ Equity

(in thousands)

Additional

Deferred

Deferred

Common

Paid-in

Retained

Treasury

Compensation

Compensation

Stock

Capital

Earnings

Stock

Trust

Liability

Total

Balance, December 31, 2007

$


$

663,631

$

3,529,995

$

(3,064,457

)

$

(75,636

)

$

75,636

$

1,129,375

Net income

—

—

100,892

—

—

—

100,892

Deferred compensation
activity

—

—

—

—


(786

)

—

Purchase of common stock
for treasury

—

—

—

—

(128

)


—

Stock-based compensation

—

41,204

—

—

—

—

41,204

Tax benefit from stock options
exercised and deferred
compensation distributions

—

50,240

—

—

—

—

50,240

Proceeds from stock options
exercised

—

52,078

—

—

—

—

52,078

Treasury stock issued
upon option exercise

—

(84,888

)

—

84,888

—

—

—

Balance, December 31, 2008


722,265

3,630,887

(2,979,569

)

(74,978

)

74,978

1,373,789

Net income

—

—

192,180

—

—

—

192,180

Deferred compensation
activity

—

—

—

—

34,179

(34,179

)

—

Stock-based compensation

—

46,302

—

—

—

—

46,302

Tax benefit from stock options
exercised and deferred
compensation distributions

—

66,448

—

—

—

—

66,448

Proceeds from stock options
exercised

—

78,543

—

—

—

—

78,543

Treasury stock issued
upon option exercise

—

(83,027

)

—

83,027

—

—

—

Balance, December 31, 2009


830,531

3,823,067

(2,896,542

)

(40,799

)

40,799

1,757,262

Net income

—

—

206,005

—

—

—

206,005

Deferred compensation
activity

—

—

—

—

13,217

(13,217

)

—

Purchase of common stock
for treasury

—

—

—

(417,079

)

—

—

(417,079

)

Stock-based compensation

—

53,136

—

—

—

—

53,136

Tax benefit from stock options
exercised and deferred
compensation distributions

—

63,558

—

—

—

—

63,558

Proceeds from stock options
exercised

—

77,492

—

—

—

—

77,492

Treasury stock issued
upon option exercise

—

(73,483

)

—

73,483

—

—

—

Balance, December 31, 2010

$


$

951,234

$

4,029,072

$

(3,240,138

)

$

(27,582

)

$

27,582

$

1,740,374

See notes to consolidated financial statements


NVR, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

(in thousands)

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net income

$

206,005

$

192,180

$

100,892

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

7,263

9,713

13,641

Excess income tax benefit from exercise of stock options

(63,558

)

(66,448

)

(50,240

)

Equity-based compensation expense

53,136

46,302

41,204

Contract land deposit impairments (recoveries)

4,264

(6,464

)

165,024

Gain on sale of loans

(46,225

)

(46,960

)

(38,921

)

(Gain) loss on sale of fixed assets

(167

)

(358

)


Gain on extinguishment of debt

—

—

(251

)

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets

—

—

11,686

Deferred tax expense (benefit)

13,558

21,905

(12,048

)

Mortgage loans closed

(2,109,505

)

(1,943,074

)

(2,046,575

)

Proceeds from sales of mortgage loans

2,011,765

2,018,151

2,115,607

Principal payments on mortgage loans held for sale

2,554

2,072

4,321

Distribution of earnings from unconsolidated joint ventures

1,307

—

—

Net change in assets and liabilities:

(Increase) decrease in inventories

(8,783

)

(18,148

)

288,284

(Increase) decrease in contract land deposits

(53,866

)

(14,848

)


Decrease (increase) in receivables

1,532

3,682

(1,016

)

Increase (decrease) in accounts payable, accrued
expenses and customer deposits

56,752

82,578

(157,111

)

Other, net

(20,644

)

(38,641

)

27,363

Net cash provided by operating activities

55,388

241,642

462,361

Cash flows from investing activities:

Purchase of marketable securities

(150,000

)

(858,362

)

—

Redemption of marketable securities at maturity

369,535

638,827

—

Investments in unconsolidated joint ventures

(2,000

)

—

—

Distribution of capital from unconsolidated joint ventures

1,193

—

—

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

(6,943

)

(3,044

)

(6,899

)

Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment



1,401

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

212,440

(221,617

)

(5,498

)

Cash flows from financing activities:

Purchase of treasury stock

(417,079

)

—

—

Purchase of NVR common stock for deferred compensation plan

—

—

(128

)

Net borrowings (repayments) under notes payable and credit lines

77,579

(32,559

)

(39,214

)

Net borrowings under non-recourse debt related to consolidated
variable interest entity

7,592

—

—

Redemption of senior notes

(133,370

)

(29,950

)

(36,405

)

Excess income tax benefit from exercise of stock options

63,558

66,448

50,240

Exercise of stock options

77,492

78,543

52,078

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

(324,228

)

82,482

26,571

Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

(56,400

)

102,507

483,434

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year

1,250,150

1,147,643

664,209

Cash and cash equivalents, end of year

$

1,193,750

$

1,250,150

$

1,147,643

(Continued)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


NVR, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Continued)

(in thousands)

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:

Interest paid during the year

$

5,805

$

10,010

$

12,656

Income taxes paid during the year, net of refunds

$

40,669

$

(28,807

)

$

65,128

Supplemental disclosures of non-cash activities:

Investment in newly formed consolidated joint venture

$

(25,214

)

$

—

$

—

Change in net consolidated variable interest entities

$

—

$

(976

)

$

(10,346

)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of NVR,
Inc. (“NVR” or the “Company”) and its subsidiaries and certain other entities in which the
Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary (see Note 3 herein for additional
information). All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Management
continually evaluates the estimates used to prepare the consolidated financial statements
and updates those estimates as necessary. In general, the Company’s estimates are based on
historical experience, on information from third party professionals, and other various
assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the facts and circumstances. Actual
results could differ materially from those estimates made by management.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include short-term investments with original maturities
of three months or less. At December 31, 2010, $358 of cash related to a consolidated
variable interest entity is included in “Assets related to
consolidated variable interest entities” in the accompanying balance sheet.

The homebuilding segment had restricted cash of $22,889 and $4,613 at December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively. Restricted cash in 2010 is primarily attributable to holding
requirements related to outstanding letters of credit issued under the Company’s letter of
credit agreement as discussed further in Note 10. In addition, restricted cash relates to
customer deposits for certain home sales. Restricted cash is recorded in “Other assets” in
the homebuilding section of the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

The mortgage banking segment had restricted cash of $555 and $49 at December 31, 2010
and 2009, respectively, which included amounts collected at closing related to mortgage
loans held for sale. The mortgage banking segment’s restricted cash is recorded in “Other
assets” in the mortgage banking section of the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Marketable Securities

As of December 31, 2010 and 2009 the Company held marketable securities totaling $0 and
$219,535, respectively. These securities, which are debt securities issued by U.S.
government agencies, are classified by the Company as held to maturity and are measured at
amortized cost and mature within one year.

Homebuilding Inventory

The carrying value of inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value.
Cost of lots and completed and uncompleted housing units represent the accumulated actual
cost of the units. Field construction supervisors’ salaries and related direct overhead
expenses are included in inventory costs. Interest costs are not capitalized into inventory, with the exception of
land under development, as


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

applicable (see below). Upon settlement, the cost of the unit is
expensed on a specific identification basis. Cost of manufacturing materials is determined
on a first-in, first-out basis.

Sold inventory is evaluated for impairment based on the contractual selling price
compared to the total estimated cost to construct. Unsold inventory is evaluated for
impairment by analyzing recent comparable sales prices within the applicable community
compared to the costs incurred to date plus the expected costs to complete. Any calculated
impairments are recorded immediately.

Contract Land Deposits

The Company purchases finished lots under fixed price purchase agreements that
require deposits that may be forfeited if NVR fails to perform under the contract. The
deposits are in the form of cash or letters of credit in varying amounts and represent a
percentage of the aggregate purchase price of the finished lots.

NVR maintains an allowance for losses on contract land deposits that reflects the
Company’s judgment of the present loss exposure in the existing contract land deposit
portfolio at the end of the reporting period. To analyze contract land deposit impairments,
NVR utilizes an Accounting Standards Codification  (“ASC”) 450,

Contingencies

, loss contingency analysis that is conducted each
quarter. In addition to considering market and economic conditions, NVR assesses contract
land deposit impairments on a community-by-community basis pursuant to the purchase contract
terms, analyzing, as applicable, current sales absorption levels, recent sales’ gross
profit, the dollar differential between the contractual purchase price and the current
market price for lots, a developer’s financial stability, a developer’s financial ability or
willingness to reduce lot prices to current market prices, and the contract’s default status
by either the Company or the developer along with an analysis of the expected outcome of any
such default.

NVR’s analysis is focused on whether the Company can sell houses profitably in a
particular community in the current market with which the Company is faced. Because the
Company does not own the finished lots on which the Company has placed a contract land
deposit, if the above analysis leads to a determination that the Company can’t sell homes
profitably at the current contractual lot price, the Company then determines whether it will
elect to default under the contract, forfeit the deposit and terminate the contract, or
whether the Company will attempt to restructure the lot purchase contract, which may require
it to forfeit the deposit to obtain contract concessions from a developer. The Company also
assesses whether an impairment is present due to collectibility issues resulting from a
developer’s non-performance because of financial or other conditions.

For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred pre-tax charges of
approximately $4,300 related to the impairment of contract land deposits. During the year
ended December 31, 2009, the Company had a net pre-tax recovery of approximately $6,500 of
contract land deposits previously considered to be uncollectible. For the year ended
December 31, 2008, the Company incurred pre-tax charges of approximately $165,000. These
impairment charges were recorded in cost of sales on the accompanying consolidated
statements of income. The contract land deposit asset on the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets is shown net of an approximate $73,500 and $89,500 impairment valuation
allowance at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Land Under Development

On a very limited basis, NVR directly acquires raw parcels of land already zoned for
its intended use to develop into finished lots. Land under development includes the land
acquisition costs, direct improvement costs, capitalized interest, where applicable, and
real estate taxes.


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Land under development, including the land under development held by our unconsolidated
joint ventures and the related joint venture investments, is reviewed for potential
write-downs when impairment indicators are present. In addition to considering market and
economic conditions, the Company assesses land under development impairments on a
community-by-community basis, analyzing, as applicable, current sales absorption levels,
recent sales’ gross profit, and the dollar differential between the projected
fully-developed cost of the lots and the current market price for lots. If indicators of
impairment are present for a community, NVR performs an analysis to determine if the
undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than their
carrying amounts, and if so, impairment charges are required to be recorded if the fair
value of such assets is less than their carrying amounts. For those assets deemed to be
impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured as the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the assets. The Company’s determination of
fair value is primarily based on discounting the estimated future cash flows at a rate
commensurate with the inherent risks associated with the asset and related estimated cash
flow streams. NVR does not believe that any of the land under development, all of which was
acquired during 2010, is impaired at this time.

Property, Plant, and Equipment

Property, plant, and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Depreciation is based on the estimated useful lives of the assets using the
straight-line method. Amortization of capital lease assets is included in depreciation
expense. Model home furniture and fixtures are generally depreciated over a two-year
period, office facilities and other equipment are depreciated over a period from three to
ten years, manufacturing facilities are depreciated over periods of from five to forty years
and property under capital leases is depreciated in a manner consistent with the Company’s
depreciation policy for owned assets, or the lease-term if shorter.

Intangible Assets

Reorganization value in excess of identifiable assets (“excess reorganization value”)
is an indefinite life intangible asset that was created upon NVR’s emergence from bankruptcy
on September 30, 1993. Based on the allocation of the reorganization value, the portion of
the reorganization value which was not attributed to specific tangible or intangible assets
has been reported as excess reorganization value, which is treated similarly to goodwill.
Excess reorganization value is not subject to amortization. Rather, excess reorganization
value is subject to an impairment assessment on an annual basis or more frequently if
changes in events or circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Because
excess reorganization value was based on the reorganization value of NVR’s entire enterprise
upon bankruptcy emergence, the impairment assessment is conducted on an enterprise basis
based on the comparison of NVR’s total equity compared to the market value of NVR’s
outstanding publicly-traded common stock. The Company completed its annual assessment of
impairment and management determined that there was no impairment of excess reorganization
value.

Warranty/Product Liability Accruals

The
Company establishes warranty and product liability reserves to provide for
estimated future expenses as a result of construction and product defects, product recalls
and litigation incidental to NVR’s homebuilding business. Liability estimates are
determined based on management’s judgment considering such factors as historical experience,
the likely current cost of corrective action, manufacturers’ and subcontractors’
participation in sharing the cost of corrective action, consultations with third party
experts such as engineers, and discussions with the Company’s general counsel and outside
counsel retained to handle specific product liability cases.


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Mortgage Loans Held for Sale, Derivatives and Hedging Activities

NVR originates several different loan products to its customers to finance the
purchase of a home through its wholly-owned mortgage subsidiary. NVR sells all of the loans
it originates into the secondary market typically within 30 days from origination. All of
the loans that the Company originates are underwritten to the standards and specifications
of the ultimate investor. Those underwriting standards are typically equal to or more
stringent than the underwriting standards required by FNMA, VA and FHA. Insofar as the
Company underwrites its originated loans to those standards, the Company bears no increased
concentration of credit risk from the issuance of loans, except in certain limited instances
where early payment default occurs. The Company employs a quality control department to
ensure that its underwriting controls are effectively operating, and further assesses the
underwriting function as part of its assessment of internal controls over financial
reporting. The Company maintains an allowance for losses on mortgage loans originated that
reflects NVR’s judgment of the present loss exposure in the loans that it has originated and
sold. The allowance is calculated based on an analysis of historical experience and
anticipated losses on mortgages held for investment, real estate owned, and specific
expected loan repurchases or indemnifications (see Note 12 herein for further information).

Mortgage loans held for sale are recorded at fair value at closing and thereafter are
carried at the lower of cost or fair value, net of deferred origination costs, until sold.

In the normal course of business, our mortgage banking segment enters into contractual
commitments to extend credit to buyers of single-family homes with fixed expiration dates.
The commitments become effective when the borrowers “lock-in” a specified interest rate
within time frames established by NVR. All mortgagors are evaluated for credit worthiness
prior to the extension of the commitment. Market risk arises if interest rates move
adversely between the time of the “lock-in” of rates by the borrower and the sale date of
the loan to a broker/dealer. To mitigate the effect of the interest rate risk inherent in
providing rate lock commitments to borrowers, the Company enters into optional or mandatory
delivery forward sale contracts to sell whole loans and mortgage-backed securities to
broker/dealers. The forward sale contracts lock in an interest rate and price for the sale
of loans similar to the specific rate lock commitments. NVR does not engage in speculative
or trading derivative activities. Both the rate lock commitments to borrowers and the
forward sale contracts to broker/dealers are undesignated derivatives, and, accordingly, are
marked to fair value through earnings. At December 31, 2010, there were contractual
commitments to extend credit to borrowers aggregating $96,265, and open forward delivery
sale contracts aggregating $262,839. See Note 11 herein for a description of our fair value
accounting calculation.

Earnings per Share

The following weighted average shares and share equivalents are used to calculate basic
and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008:


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Weighted average number of shares
outstanding used to calculate basic EPS

5,893,105

5,806,773

5,379,409

Dilutive securities:

Stock options and restricted share units

271,512

341,996

540,876

Weighted average number of shares and
share equivalents outstanding used to
calculate diluted EPS

6,164,617

6,148,769

5,920,285

The assumed proceeds used in the treasury method for calculating NVR’s diluted
earnings per share includes the amount the employee must pay upon exercise, the amount of
compensation cost attributed to future services and not yet recognized and the amount of tax
benefits that would be credited or charged to additional paid-in capital assuming exercise
of the stock option or vesting of the restricted share unit. The assumed amount credited to
additional paid-in capital equals the tax benefit from assumed exercise of stock options or
the assumed vesting of restricted share units after consideration of the intrinsic value
upon assumed exercise or vesting less the actual stock-based compensation expense to be
recognized in the income statement from 2006 and future periods.

Stock options issued under equity benefit plans to purchase 443,565; 134,405 and
316,747 shares of common stock were outstanding during the years ended December 31, 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings
per share because the effect would have been anti-dilutive.

Revenues-Homebuilding Operations

NVR builds single-family detached homes, townhomes and condominium buildings,
which generally are constructed on a pre-sold basis for the ultimate customer. Revenues are
recognized at the time the unit is settled and title passes to the customer, adequate cash
payment has been received and there is no continuing involvement. In situations where the
buyer’s financing is originated by NVR Mortgage Finance, Inc. (“NVRM), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of NVR, and the buyer has not made an adequate initial or continuing investment
as prescribed by GAAP, the profit on such settlement is deferred until the sale of the
related loan to a third-party investor has been completed.

Mortgage Banking Fees

Mortgage banking fees include income earned by NVRM for originating mortgage
loans, servicing mortgage loans held on an interim basis, title fees, gains and losses on
the sale of mortgage loans and mortgage servicing and other activities incidental to
mortgage banking. Mortgage banking fees are generally recognized after the loan has been
sold to an unaffiliated, third party investor.

Income Taxes

Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences
between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and
their respective tax basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted
tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on the deferred tax assets
and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes
the enactment date.


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

ASC 740-10 provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized
when it is more-likely-than-not (defined as a likelihood of more than 50%) that the position
will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or
litigation processes, based on the technical merits. If a tax position does not meet the
more-likely-than-not recognition threshold, despite the Company’s belief that its filing
position is supportable, the benefit of that tax position is not recognized in the
statements of income. The Company recognizes interest related to unrecognized tax benefits
as a component of income tax expense. Based on its historical experience in dealing with
various taxing authorities, the Company has found that it is the administrative practice of
the taxing authorities to not seek penalties from the Company for the tax positions it has
taken on its returns, related to its unrecognized tax benefits. Therefore, the Company does
not accrue penalties for the positions in which it has an unrecognized tax benefit.
However, if such penalties were to be accrued, they would be recorded as a component of
income tax expense. The Company recognizes unrecognized tax benefits in the period that the
uncertainty is eliminated by either affirmative agreement of the uncertain tax position by
the applicable taxing authority, or by expiration of the applicable statute of limitation.

Financial Instruments

Except as otherwise noted herein, NVR believes that insignificant differences
exist between the carrying value and the fair value of its financial instruments (see Note
11 herein for further information).

Stock-Based Compensation

The company accounts for its stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718,

Compensation — Stock Compensation.

ASC 718 requires an
entity to recognize an expense within its income statement for all share-based payment
arrangements, which includes employee stock option and restricted share unit plans. The
expense is based on the grant-date fair value of the stock options and restricted share
units granted, and is recognized ratably over the requisite service period. The Company
calculates the fair value of its non-publicly traded, employee stock options using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The grant date fair value of the restricted share units
is the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the day immediately preceding the date
of grant. The Company’s equity-based compensation programs are accounted for as
equity-classified awards. See Note 9 herein for further discussion of stock-based
compensation plans.

Comprehensive Income

For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, comprehensive income equaled net
income; therefore, a separate statement of comprehensive income is not included in the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In
January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
 (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2010-06,

Fair
Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820) — Improving Disclosures about Fair Value
Measurements

, which amends ASC 820 to require the disclosure of additional information
related to fair value measurement and provide clarification to existing requirements for
fair value measurement disclosure. ASU 2010-06 was effective for the Company beginning
January 1, 2010. The Company’s disclosures conform to the requirements of ASU 2010-06. See
Note 11 herein for additional discussion of fair value measurements.


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 166,

Accounting for Transfers of Financial
Assets

, as codified in ASC 860,

Transfers and Servicing

, which changes the conditions for
reporting a transfer of a portion of a financial asset as a sale and requires additional
year-end and interim disclosures. ASC 860 was effective for the Company beginning January
1, 2010. The adoption of ASC 860 did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial
statements.

In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 167,

Amendments to FASB Interpretation No.
46(R),

as codified in ASC 810,

Consolidation

, through Accounting Standards Update 2009-17.
This statement amends FASB Interpretation 46R related to the consolidation of variable
interest entities (“VIEs”) and revises the approach to determining the primary beneficiary
of a VIE to be more qualitative in nature and requires companies to more frequently reassess
whether they must consolidate a VIE. The amendment to ASC 810 was effective for the
Company’s fiscal year beginning January 1, 2010. Upon adoption of ASC 810, all of the
assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs at December 31, 2009 were deconsolidated, and
there was no resultant gain or loss. See Note 3 herein for further discussion of consolidated
VIEs.

2. Segment Information, Nature of Operations, and Certain Concentrations

NVR’s homebuilding operations primarily construct and sell single-family detached homes,
townhomes and condominium buildings under four trade names: Ryan Homes, NVHomes, Fox Ridge Homes,
and Rymarc Homes. The Ryan Homes, Fox Ridge Homes, and Rymarc Homes products are marketed
primarily to first-time homeowners and first-time move-up buyers. The Ryan Homes product is sold
in twenty-three metropolitan areas located in Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New
York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, Ohio, New Jersey, Delaware, Indiana and Kentucky.
The Fox Ridge Homes product is sold solely in the Nashville, TN metropolitan area. The Rymarc
Homes product is sold solely in the Columbia, SC metropolitan area. The NVHomes product is sold in
the Washington, D.C., Baltimore, MD, Philadelphia, PA and Maryland Eastern Shore metropolitan
areas, and is marketed primarily to move-up and up-scale buyers. NVR derived approximately 47% of
its 2010 homebuilding revenues in the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, MD metropolitan areas.

NVR’s mortgage banking segment is a regional mortgage banking operation. Substantially all of
the mortgage banking segment’s loan closing activity is for NVR’s homebuilding customers. NVR’s
mortgage banking business generates revenues primarily from origination fees, gains on sales of
loans, and title fees. A substantial portion of the Company’s mortgage operations is conducted in
the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, MD metropolitan areas.

The following disclosure includes four homebuilding reportable segments that aggregate
geographically the Company’s homebuilding operating segments, and the mortgage banking operations
presented as a single reportable segment. The homebuilding reportable segments are comprised of
operating divisions in the following geographic areas:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic — Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland, and Delaware

Homebuilding North East — New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania

Homebuilding Mid East — Kentucky, New York, Ohio, western Pennsylvania and
Indiana

Homebuilding South East — North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida and Tennessee

Homebuilding profit before tax includes all revenues and income generated from the sale of
homes, less the cost of homes sold, selling, general and administrative expenses, and a corporate
capital allocation charge. The corporate capital allocation charge eliminates in consolidation, is
based on the segment’s average net assets employed, and is charged using a consistent methodology
in the years presented. The corporate


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

capital allocation charged to the operating segment allows
the Chief Operating Decision Maker to determine whether the operating segment’s results are
providing the desired rate of return after covering the Company’s cost of capital. The Company
records charges on contract land deposits when it is determined that it is probable that recovery
of the deposit is impaired. For segment reporting purposes, impairments on contract land deposits
are charged to the operating segment upon the determination to terminate a finished lot purchase
agreement with the developer, or to restructure a lot purchase agreement resulting in the
forfeiture of the deposit. Mortgage banking profit before tax consists of revenues generated from
mortgage financing, title insurance and closing services, less the costs of such services and
general and administrative costs. Mortgage banking operations are not charged a capital allocation
charge.

In addition to the corporate capital allocation and contract land deposit impairments
discussed above, the other reconciling items between segment profit and consolidated profit before
tax include unallocated corporate overhead (including all management incentive compensation),
equity-based compensation expense, consolidation adjustments and external corporate interest
expense. NVR’s overhead functions, such as accounting, treasury, human resources, etc., are
centrally performed and the costs are not allocated to the Company’s operating segments.
Consolidation adjustments consist of such items necessary to convert the reportable segments’
results, which are predominantly maintained on a cash basis, to a full accrual basis for external
financial statement presentation purposes, and are not allocated to the Company’s operating
segments. Likewise, equity-based compensation expense is not charged to the operating segments.
External corporate interest expense is primarily comprised of interest charges on the Company’s
Senior Notes and is not charged to the operating segments because the charges are included in the
corporate capital allocation discussed above.

Following are tables presenting revenues, segment profit and segment assets for each
reportable segment, with reconciliations to the amounts reported for the consolidated enterprise,
where applicable:

Year Ended December 31,




Revenues:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

1,780,521

$

1,661,244

$

2,161,764

Homebuilding North East

287,561

254,654

347,142

Homebuilding Mid East

632,377

505,431

659,649

Homebuilding South East

280,299

262,138

470,147

Mortgage Banking

61,134

60,381

54,337

Total Consolidated Revenues

$

3,041,892

$

2,743,848

$

3,693,039


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Year Ended December 31,




Profit:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

209,496

$

185,861

$

103,690

Homebuilding North East

25,090

19,572

13,182

Homebuilding Mid East

56,882

38,012

39,643

Homebuilding South East

10,870

7,384

7,904

Mortgage Banking

35,704

38,138

29,227

Total Segment Profit

338,042

288,967

193,646

Contract land deposit impairment reserve (1)

16,206

42,939

(41,134

)

Equity-based compensation expense (2)

(53,136

)

(46,302

)

(41,204

)

Corporate capital allocation (3)

65,971

61,753

108,509

Unallocated corporate overhead (4)

(55,992

)

(44,103

)

(52,696

)

Consolidation adjustments and other

15,848

4,970

24,437

Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets (5)

—

—

(11,686

)

Corporate interest expense

(4,546

)

(9,810

)

(12,417

)

Reconciling items sub-total

(15,649

)

9,447

(26,191

)

Consolidated Income before Taxes

$

322,393

$

298,414

$

167,455

As of December 31,




Assets:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

414,090

$

448,019

$

403,439

Homebuilding North East

35,827

54,132

53,732

Homebuilding Mid East

78,246

94,225

82,976

Homebuilding South East

43,041

37,663

53,890

Mortgage Banking

196,441

52,696

83,432

Total Segment Assets

767,645

686,735

677,469

Consolidated variable interest entities (6)

22,371

70,430

114,930

Cash and cash equivalents

1,190,731

1,248,689

1,146,426

Land under development (7)

78,058

—

—

Marketable securities

—

219,535

—

Deferred taxes

184,930

200,340

223,393

Intangible assets

48,927

48,927

48,927

Contract land deposit reserve

(73,517

)

(94,940

)

(155,858

)

Consolidation adjustments and other (8)

40,916

16,054

47,949

Reconciling items sub-total

1,492,416

1,709,035

1,425,767

Consolidated Assets

$

2,260,061

$

2,395,770

$

2,103,236

Year Ended December 31,




Interest Income:

Mortgage Banking

$

5,411

$

2,979

$

3,955

Total Segment Interest Income

5,411

2,979

3,955

Other unallocated interest income

5,301

5,407

10,909

Consolidated Interest Income

$

10,712

$

8,386

$

14,864


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Year Ended December 31,




Interest Expense:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

45,082

$

41,130

$

73,441

Homebuilding North East

5,936

6,475

10,084

Homebuilding Mid East

9,669

8,873

12,976

Homebuilding South East

5,641

5,661

12,493

Mortgage Banking

1,126

1,184


Total Segment Interest Expense

67,454

63,323

109,748

Corporate capital allocation

(65,971

)

(61,753

)

(108,509

)

Senior Note and other interest

4,546

9,810

12,417

Consolidated Interest Expense

$

6,029

$

11,380

$

13,656

Year Ended December 31,




Depreciation and Amortization:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

3,369

$

4,351

$

7,005

Homebuilding North East




Homebuilding Mid East

1,224

1,233

1,626

Homebuilding South East


1,163

1,715

Mortgage Banking




Total Segment Depreciation and Amortization

6,228

7,716

11,715

Unallocated corporate

1,035

1,997

1,926

Consolidated Depreciation and Amortization

$

7,263

$

9,713

$

13,641

Year Ended December 31,




Expenditures for Property and Equipment:

Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

2,165

$

1,511

$

3,142

Homebuilding North East




Homebuilding Mid East

2,247


1,372

Homebuilding South East



1,369

Mortgage Banking




Total Segment Expenditures for
Property and Equipment

6,318

3,022

6,696

Unallocated corporate




Consolidated Expenditures for
Property and Equipment

$

6,943

$

3,044

$

6,899


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

(1)

This item represents changes to the contract land deposit impairment reserve,
which are not allocated to the reportable segments. During both 2010 and 2009,
unallocated reserves decreased from the respective prior years primarily as a result of
charging previously reserved land impairments to the operating segments and to certain
recoveries of deposits previously determined to be impaired.

(2)

The increase in equity-based compensation expense in 2010 compared to the prior
year was primarily due to the granting of non-qualified stock options and restricted
share units from the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan in the current year. The current year
increase in stock based compensation expense was partially offset by an approximate
$7,600 pre-tax reversal of stock-based compensation expense attributable to an
adjustment of the Company’s option forfeiture estimates based on the Company’s actual
forfeiture experience.

(3)

This item represents the elimination of the corporate capital allocation charge
included in the respective homebuilding reportable segments. The corporate capital
allocation charge is based on the segment’s monthly average asset balance, and is as
follows for the years presented:

Year Ended December 31,




Homebuilding Mid Atlantic

$

44,758

$

40,765

$

73,042

Homebuilding North East

5,926

6,473

10,081

Homebuilding Mid East

9,657

8,863

12,902

Homebuilding South East

5,630

5,652

12,484

Total

$

65,971

$

61,753

$

108,509

(4)

The increases in unallocated corporate overhead in 2010 from 2009 is
attributable to increased personnel levels year over year and to higher management
incentive costs as the prior year incentive plan was limited to a payout of 50% of the
maximum bonus opportunity. The decrease in 2009 from 2008 was primarily driven by a
reduction in personnel and other overhead costs as part of the Company’s focus to size
the organization to meet current activity levels.

(5)

The 2008 impairment charge relates to the write-off of goodwill and indefinite
life intangible assets related to the Company’s 2005 acquisition of Rymarc Homes and
the goodwill related to the 1997 acquisition of Fox Ridge Homes.

(6)

The decrease in consolidated variable interest entities (“VIEs”) was
attributable to the adoption of amended ASC 810, which resulted in the deconsolidation
in 2010 of all VIEs consolidated in 2009. The current year balance relates to the
assets of one joint venture consolidated under ASC 810. See Note 3 for additional
discussion of VIEs.

(7)

Land under development is not allocated to the respective operating segment
until the building lots are finished. See Note 3 for additional discussion of land
under development.

(8)

The increase in consolidation adjustments and other was attributable to an
approximate $18,000 increase in restricted cash resulting from the transition to a new
letter of credit agreement which requires the Company to maintain cash reserves equal
to the value of letter of credits outstanding. The decrease in 2009 from 2008 was
primarily attributable to changes in the corporate consolidation entries based on
production volumes year over year.

3. Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, Joint Ventures and Land Under Development

Effective January 1, 2010, NVR adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 167,

Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R),

as codified in ASC 810,

Consolidation

, through
Accounting Standards Update 2009-17 (“ASC 810”). This statement amends FASB Interpretation 46R
related to the consolidation of variable interest entities (“VIEs”), revises the approach to
determining the primary


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

beneficiary of a VIE to be more qualitative in nature, and requires
companies to more frequently reassess whether they must consolidate a VIE.

Fixed Price Purchase Agreements

NVR generally does not engage in the land development business. Instead, the Company
typically acquires finished building lots at market prices from various development entities under
fixed price purchase agreements. The purchase agreements require deposits that may be forfeited if
NVR fails to perform under the agreement. The deposits required under the purchase agreements are
in the form of cash or letters of credit in varying amounts, and typically range up to 10% of the
aggregate purchase price of the finished lots.

NVR believes this lot acquisition strategy reduces the financial requirements and risks
associated with direct land ownership and land development. NVR may, at its option, choose for any
reason and at any time not to perform under these purchase agreements by delivering notice of its
intent not to acquire the finished lots under contract. NVR’s sole legal obligation and economic
loss for failure to perform under these purchase agreements is limited to the amount of the deposit
pursuant to the liquidated damage provisions contained within the purchase agreements. In other
words, if NVR does not perform under a purchase agreement, NVR loses only its deposit. None of the
creditors of any of the development entities with which NVR enters fixed price purchase agreements
have recourse to the general credit of NVR. NVR generally does not have any specific performance
obligations to purchase a certain number or any of the lots, nor does NVR guarantee completion of
the development by the developer or guarantee any of the developers’ financial or other
liabilities.

NVR is not involved in the design or creation of any of the development entities from which
the Company purchases lots under fixed price purchase agreements. The developer’s equity holders
have the power to direct 100% of the operating activities of the development entity. NVR has no
voting rights in any of the development entities. The sole purpose of the development entity’s
activities is to generate positive cash flow returns to the equity holders. Further, NVR does not
share in any of the profit or loss generated by the project’s development. The profits and losses
are passed directly to the developer’s equity holders.

The deposit placed by NVR pursuant to the fixed price purchase agreement is deemed to be a
variable interest in the respective development entities. Those development entities are deemed to
be variable interest entities. Therefore, the development entities with which NVR enters fixed
price purchase agreements, including the joint venture limited liability corporations, as discussed
below, are evaluated for possible consolidation by NVR. An enterprise must consolidate a VIE when
that enterprise has a controlling financial interest in the VIE. An enterprise is deemed to have a
controlling financial interest if it has i) the power to direct the activities of a variable
interest entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance, and ii) the
obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could be significant to the VIE or the rights to
receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE.

NVR believes the activities that most significantly impact a development entity’s economic
performance are the operating activities of the entity. Unless and until a development entity
completes finished building lots through the development process to be able to sell, the process of
which the development entities’ equity investors bear the full risk, the entity does not earn any
revenues. The operating development activities are managed solely by the development entity’s
equity investors.

The development entities with which NVR contracts to buy finished lots typically select the
respective projects, obtain the necessary zoning approvals, obtain the financing required with no
support or guarantees from NVR, select who will purchase the finished lots and at what price, and
manage the completion of the infrastructure improvements, all for the purpose of generating a cash
flow return to the development entity’s equity holders and all independent of NVR. The Company
possesses no more than limited protective legal


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

rights through the purchase agreement in the
specific finished lots that it is purchasing, and NVR possesses no participative rights in the
development entities. Accordingly, NVR does not have the power to direct the activities of a
developer that most significantly impact the developer’s economic performance. For this reason,
NVR has concluded that it is not the primary beneficiary of the development entities with which the
Company enters fixed price purchase agreements, and therefore, NVR does not consolidate any of
these VIEs.

As of December 31, 2010, NVR controlled approximately 50,400 lots with deposits in cash and
letters of credit totaling approximately $174,300 and $6,600, respectively. As noted above, NVR’s
sole legal obligation and economic loss for failure to perform under these purchase agreements is
limited to the amount
of the deposit pursuant to the liquidated damage provisions contained within the purchase
agreements and in very limited circumstances, specific performance obligations, as follows:

December 31, 2010

Contract land deposits

$

174,303

Loss reserve on contract land deposits

(73,517

)

Contract land deposits, net

100,786

Contingent obligations in the form of letters of credit

6,610

Contingent specific performance obligations (1)

1,944

Total risk of loss

$

109,340

(1)

At December 31, 2010, the Company was committed to purchase 43 finished lots under
specific performance obligations.

At December 31, 2009, the Company evaluated all of its fixed price purchase
agreements and LLC arrangements and determined that it was the primary beneficiary of
twenty-one of those development entities with which the agreements and arrangements are held.
As a result, at December 31, 2009, NVR had consolidated such development entities in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheet. Where NVR deemed itself to be the primary
beneficiary of a development entity created after December 31, 2003 and the development entity
refused to provide financial statements, NVR utilized estimation techniques to perform the
consolidation. The effect of the consolidation at December 31, 2009 was the inclusion on the
balance sheet of $70,430 as “Consolidated assets not owned,” with a corresponding inclusion of
$65,915 as “Liabilities related to consolidated assets not owned,” after elimination of
intercompany items. Inclusive in these totals were assets and liabilities of approximately
$40,900 for twelve development entities created after December 31, 2003 that did not provide
financial statements. Upon adoption of ASC 810, all of the assets and liabilities of
consolidated VIEs at December 31, 2009 were deconsolidated, and there was no resultant gain or
loss.

Joint Ventures

On a limited basis, NVR also obtains finished lots using joint venture limited liability
corporations (“JVs”). All JVs are typically structured such that NVR is a non-controlling member
and is at risk only for the amount the Company has invested. NVR is not a borrower, guarantor or
obligor on any debt of the JVs. The Company enters into a standard fixed price purchase agreement
to purchase lots from these JVs, and as a result has a variable interest in these JVs.

At December 31, 2010, the Company had an aggregate investment totaling approximately $37,200
in three JVs that are expected to produce approximately 1,100 finished lots. At December 31, 2010,
NVR had additional funding commitments in the aggregate totaling $5,000 to one of the three JVs.
The Company has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of two of the JVs because NVR and
the respective JV partner share power, and the joint venture investments related to those two JV’s
are included in other assets in the


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

accompanying consolidated balance sheet. NVR has concluded
that it is the primary beneficiary of the remaining JV because the Company has the controlling
financial interest in the JV. The condensed balance sheet at December 31, 2010 of the consolidated
JV is as follows:

December 31, 2010

Cash

$


Restricted cash


Other assets


Land under development

21,386

Total assets

$

22,371

Debt

$

7,592

Accrued expenses


Equity

14,720

Total liabilities and equity

$

22,371

At December 31, 2009, NVR had an aggregate investment totaling approximately $25,000 in
ten separate LLCs. As of December 31, 2009, eight of these LLCs were non-performing and as a
result NVR had recorded an impairment reserve equal to the Company’s total investment of
approximately $3,000 in these LLCs. NVR does not expect to obtain any lots from these eight LLCs
in future periods. In the two performing LLCs, the Company’s aggregate investment totaled $22,000
and the Company controlled approximately 760 lots through these LLCs. The Company’s investment in
LLCs is recorded in “Other assets” in the consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2009,
NVR had additional funding commitments totaling $4,000 to one of these two performing LLCs.
Also included in “Other assets” in the 2009 consolidated balance sheet is an acquisition and
development loan note receivable that the Company purchased for approximately $20,000, on which the
Company foreclosed on the underlying real estate.

Distributions received from joint ventures are considered operating cash flows within the
accompanying statements of cash flows to the extent of NVR’s cumulative share of joint venture
income. Any distributions received in excess of that amount are considered a return of capital,
and is classified as cash flows from investing activities.

Land Under Development

During 2010, NVR directly acquired four separate raw parcels of land zoned for their intended
use with a cost basis at December 31, 2010 of approximately $78,000 that it intends to develop into
approximately 890 finished lots for use in its homebuilding operations. All of the raw parcels are
located in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. One of the parcels, with a cost basis of
approximately $51,000 at December 31, 2010, was acquired from an entity controlled by Elm Street
Development, Inc., which is controlled by one of our directors, William A. Moran. Land under
development includes the land acquisition costs, direct improvement costs, capitalized interest,
where applicable, and real estate taxes. Based on current market conditions, NVR may, on a very
limited basis, directly acquire additional raw parcels to develop into finished lots.

4. Related Party Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2010, NVR entered into new forward lot purchase agreements
to purchase finished building lots for a total purchase price of approximately $55,000 with Elm
Street Development, Inc. (“Elm Street”), which is controlled by one of our directors, Mr. Moran.
The independent members of our Board approved these transactions, and the Company expects to
purchase these finished lots over the next four years at the contract prices. During 2010, 2009
and 2008, NVR purchased developed lots at


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

market prices from Elm Street for approximately $54,600, $46,700 and $38,000. NVR expects to
purchase the majority of the remaining lots under contract at December 31, 2010 over the next four
years for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $117,000. During 2010, NVR forfeited $118 of
deposit to restructure a forward lot purchase agreement to obtain reduced purchase prices for
finished lots under the agreement. The Company also continues to control a parcel of raw land
expected to yield at least 600 finished lots through a joint venture entered into with Elm Street
during 2009. NVR did not make any additional capital contributions to that joint venture in 2010.
Further, during 2010, NVR also purchased a zoned, unimproved raw parcel of land from Elm Street for
a total purchase price of approximately $49,000 which is included in the land under development
caption in the accompanying balance sheet at a current cost basis, including development costs, of
approximately $51,000. See Note 3 herein for further discussion of land under development.

5. Property, Plant and Equipment, net

December 31,



Homebuilding:

Office facilities and other

$

13,554

$

13,324

Model home furniture and fixtures

16,545

18,354

Manufacturing facilities

28,398

28,581

Property under capital leases

3,976

3,976

62,473

64,235

Less: accumulated depreciation

(42,950

)

(44,020

)

$

19,523

$

20,215

Mortgage Banking:

Office facilities and other

$

4,088

$

3,586

Less: accumulated depreciation

(3,138

)

(3,140

)

$


$


Certain property, plant and equipment listed above is collateral for certain debt of NVR
as more fully described in Note 6 herein.

6. Debt

December 31,



Homebuilding:

Working capital revolving credit (a)

$

—

$

—

Other term debt:

Capital lease obligations due
in monthly
installments through 2015 (b)

$

1,751

$

2,166

Senior notes (c)

$

—

$

133,370

Mortgage Banking:

Master repurchase agreement (d)

$

90,338

$

12,344


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

(a)

During 2010 and 2009, the Company, as borrower, had available a $300,000 unsecured
working capital revolving credit facility (the “Facility”). Effective October 27, 2010, the
Company voluntarily terminated the Facility which was set to expire on December 6, 2010. The
Company currently does not intend to enter into a new credit facility; however, effective
October 27, 2010, the Company entered into an uncommitted collateralized letter of credit
facility to issue letters of credit in our ordinary course of business. See Note 10 for
further discussion of letters of credit.

(b)

The capital lease obligations have fixed interest rates ranging from 13.1% to 14.1% and are
collateralized by land, buildings and equipment with a net book value of approximately $681
and $866 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

The following schedule provides future minimum lease payments under all capital leases
together with the present value as of December 31, 2010:

Year ending December 31,


$










Thereafter

—

2,359

Amount representing interest

(608

)

$

1,751

(c)

On June 17, 2003, NVR completed an offering, at par, for $200,000 of 5% Senior Notes due
2010 (the “Senior Notes”) under a shelf registration statement filed in 1998 with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The Senior Notes bore interest at 5%, payable
semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15. The Senior Notes matured on June 15,
2010, and upon their maturity, the Company redeemed the $133,370 in outstanding Senior Notes
at par.

On September 8, 2008, the Company filed a shelf registration statement (the “2008 Shelf
Registration”) with the SEC to register for future offer and sale an unlimited amount of
debt securities, common shares, preferred shares, depositary shares representing preferred
shares and warrants. This discussion of the 2008 Shelf Registration does not constitute an
offer of any securities for sale.

(d)

On July 30, 2010, NVRM renewed and amended its Master Repurchase Agreement dated August 5,
2008 with U.S. Bank National Association, as Agent and representative of itself as a Buyer,
and the other Buyers thereto (the “Master Repurchase Agreement”) pursuant to a Second
Amendment to Master Repurchase Agreement with U.S. Bank National Association, as Agent and
representative of itself as Buyer (“Agent”), and the other Buyers thereto (together with the
Master Repurchase Agreement, the “Repurchase Agreement”). The purpose of the Repurchase
Agreement is to finance the origination of mortgage loans by NVRM. The Repurchase Agreement
provides for loan purchases up to $100,000, subject to certain sub limits. In addition, the
Repurchase Agreement provides for an accordion feature under which NVRM may request that the
aggregate commitments under the Repurchase Agreement be increased to an amount up to $125,000.
The Repurchase Agreement expires on August 2, 2011.

Advances under the Repurchase Agreement carry a Pricing Rate based on the Libor Rate plus
the


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Libor Margin, or the Default Pricing Rate, as determined under the Repurchase Agreement,
provided that the Pricing Rate shall not be less than 4.5%. Prior to the July 30, 2010
renewal date, the Pricing Rate was based on LIBOR plus LIBOR Margin, or at NVRM’s option,
the Balance Funded Rate,
which included credit for compensating balances. Under the Repurchase Agreement, the
Company may enter into separate agreements with the Buyers party to the Repurchase
Agreement, adjusting the Pricing Rate in effect. These separate agreements do not effect
the maximum aggregate commitment available under the Repurchase Agreement. There are
several restrictions on purchased loans, including that they cannot be sold to others, they
cannot be pledged to anyone other than the agent, and they cannot support any other
borrowing or repurchase agreement. The average Pricing Rate on outstanding balances at
December 31, 2010 was 4.1%. The average Pricing Rate for amounts outstanding under the
previous Repurchase Agreement at December 31, 2009 was 4.1%.

At December 31, 2010, there was $90,338 outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement, which is
included in Mortgage Banking “Note payable” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet.
Amounts outstanding under the Repurchase Agreement are collateralized by the Company’s
mortgage loans held for sale, which are included in assets in the December 31, 2010 balance
sheet in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. There were no borrowing base
limitations at December 31, 2010.

The Repurchase Agreement contains various affirmative and negative covenants. The negative
covenants include among others, certain limitations on transactions involving acquisitions,
mergers, the incurrence of debt, sale of assets and creation of liens upon any of its
Mortgage Notes. Additional covenants include (i) a tangible net worth requirement, (ii) a
minimum liquidity requirement, (iii) a minimum tangible net worth ratio, (iv) a minimum net
income requirement, and (v) a maximum leverage ratio requirement. The Company was in
compliance with all covenants under the Repurchase Agreement at December 31, 2010.

* * * * *

Maturities with respect to the Company’s debt as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:

Year ending December 31,


$

90,441









Thereafter

—

Total

$

92,089

The $90,441 maturing in 2011 includes $90,338 of borrowings under the Repurchase
Agreement.

7. Common Stock

There were 5,663,556 and 5,950,111 common shares outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. As of December 31, 2010, NVR had reacquired a total of approximately 21,400,000
shares of NVR common stock at an aggregate cost of approximately $3,837,000 since December 31,
1993. The Company repurchased 644,562 shares at an aggregate purchase price of approximately
$417,080 during 2010. The Company did not repurchase any shares during 2009 or 2008.

Since 1999, the Company has issued shares from the treasury for all stock option exercises.
There


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

have been approximately 6,507,000 common shares reissued from the treasury in satisfaction of
stock option exercises and other employee benefit obligations. The Company issued 359,765; 418,775
and 426,751 such shares during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

8. Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Current:

Federal

$

96,449

$

69,911

$

63,614

State

12,468

8,556

9,785

Deferred:

Federal

6,352

23,474

(5,702

)

State

1,119

4,293

(1,134

)

$

116,388

$

106,234

$

66,563

In addition to amounts applicable to income before taxes, the following income tax
benefits were recorded in shareholders’ equity:

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Income tax benefits
arising from compensation expense
for tax purposes in excess of
amounts recognized for financial statement purposes

$

63,558

$

66,448

$

50,240

Deferred income taxes on NVR’s consolidated balance sheets are comprised of the
following:

December 31,



Deferred tax assets:

Other accrued expenses and contract land deposit reserve

$

96,459

$

104,907

Deferred compensation

11,642

16,897

Equity-based compensation
expense

49,469

43,149

Uniform capitalization

5,495

5,477

Unrecognized tax benefit

24,514

25,671

Other

5,856

10,480

Total deferred tax assets

193,435

206,581

Less: deferred tax liabilities



Net deferred tax position

$

192,487

$

206,050

Deferred tax assets arise principally as a result of various accruals required for
financial reporting purposes, stock option expense and deferred compensation, which are not
currently deductible for tax return purposes.


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Management believes that the Company will have sufficient available carry-backs and future
taxable income to make it more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets will be realized.
Federal taxable income is estimated to be $118,240 for the year ended December 31, 2010, and was
$56,157 for the year ended December 31, 2009.

A reconciliation of income tax expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income
to the amount computed by applying the statutory Federal income tax rate of 35% to income before
taxes is as follows:

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Income taxes computed at the Federal statutory rate

$

112,838

$

104,445

$

58,609

State income taxes, net of
Federal income tax benefit

7,731

7,467

6,004

Other, net

(4,181

)

(5,678

)

1,950

$

116,388

$

106,234

$

66,563

The Company’s effective tax rate in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was 36.10%, 35.60% and 39.75%,
respectively. The lower effective tax rates in 2010 and 2009 as compared to 2008 were due to the
expiration of certain tax reserves previously established, the amendment of certain prior year
federal and state income tax returns that the Company believes will result in tax refunds, and
changes under Internal Revenue Code Section 199, domestic manufacturing deduction, that provides
the Company the ability to obtain a larger tax benefit. In addition, the 2009 effective tax rate
was favorably impacted by Mr. Schar relinquishing his Executive Officer role with the Company in
2009, generating a tax benefit related to compensation expense recorded for certain outstanding
option grants held by Mr. Schar that were previously considered to be a permanent non-deductible
tax difference.

The Company files a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return, as well as state and local
tax returns in all jurisdictions where the Company maintains operations. With few exceptions, the
Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years prior to 2007.

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as
follows:

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

Balance at beginning of year

$

48,669

$

53,339

Additions for tax positions for prior years

—


Additions based on tax positions related
to the current year

4,092

2,769

Reductions for tax positions of prior years

(8,039

)

(7,511

)

Settlements

—

—

Balance at end of year

$

44,722

$

48,669

If recognized, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect the
effective tax rate (on a net basis) is $29,070.

The Company recognizes interest related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income
tax expense. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 the Company accrued interest on
unrecognized tax benefits in the amounts of $573, $932 and $5,150, respectively. For the years
ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had a total of $22,721 and $22,149, respectively, of
accrued


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

interest on unrecognized tax benefits in its balance sheet. Based on its historical experience in
dealing with various taxing authorities, the Company has found that it is the administrative
practice of these authorities to not seek penalties from the Company for the tax positions it has
taken on its returns, related to its unrecognized tax benefits. Therefore, the Company does not
accrue penalties for the positions in which it has an unrecognized tax benefit. However, if such
penalties were to be accrued, they would be recorded as a component of income tax expense.

The Company believes that within the next 12 months, it is reasonably possible that the
unrecognized tax benefits will be reduced by approximately $3,026 due to statute expiration in
various state jurisdictions. The Company is currently under audit by the states of New York,
Pennsylvania, South Carolina and Tennessee.

9. Equity-Based Compensation, Profit Sharing and Deferred Compensation Plans

Equity-Based Compensation Plans

NVR’s equity-based compensation plans provide for the granting of non-qualified stock options
to purchase shares of NVR common stock (“Options”) and restricted share units (“RSUs”) to key
management employees, including executive officers and Board members, of the Company. The exercise
price of Options granted is equal to the closing price of the Company’s common stock on the New
York Stock Exchange on the day prior to the date of grant, and RSUs are issued at a $0 exercise
price. Options are granted for a ten-year term and typically vest in separate tranches over
periods of 3 to 8 years, depending upon the plan from which the shares were granted, based solely
on continued employment or continued service as a Director. RSUs are also granted for a ten-year
term and generally vest in separate tranches over a period of 2 years, based solely on continued
employment or continued service as a Director. At December 31, 2010, there was an aggregate of
1,053,425 options and 149,727 RSUs outstanding, and there were an additional 270,247 available
shares to be granted under existing equity-based compensation plans. Of the available shares to be
granted, up to 90,273 shares may be granted in the form of RSUs.

The following is a summary description of each of the Company’s equity-based compensation
plans for any plan with grants outstanding at December 31, 2010:

•

During 1996, the Company’s shareholders approved the Board of Directors’
adoption of the Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan (the “1996 Option Plan”).
There are 2,000,000 Options authorized under the Management Long Term Stock Option
Plan. All Options were granted at an exercise price equal to the closing price of
the Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior to the
date of grant. The outstanding Options expire 10 years after the dates upon which
they were granted, and vest annually in 25% increments beginning on December 31,
2006, or later depending on the date of grant. There are no grants remaining
available to issue from the 1996 Option Plan.

•

During 1999, the Company’s shareholders approved the Board of Directors’
adoption of the 1998 Management Long-Term Stock Option Plan (the “1998 Option
Plan”). There are 1,000,000 Options authorized under the 1998 Option Plan. All
Options were granted at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the
Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior to the date
of grant. The Options expire 10 years after the dates upon which they were
granted. The outstanding Options generally vest in 25% increments beginning on
December 31, 2006, or later depending on the date of grant. There are no grants
remaining available to issue from the 1998 Option Plan.


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

•

During 1999, the Company’s shareholders approved the Board of Directors’
adoption of the 1998 Directors’ Long Term Stock Option Plan (the “1998 Directors’
Plan”). There were 150,000 Options to purchase shares of common stock authorized
for grant to the Company’s outside directors under the 1998 Directors’ Plan. All
Options are granted at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the
Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior to the date
of grant. The Options were granted for a 10-year period and generally vest
annually in twenty-five percent (25%) increments beginning on December 31, 2006,
or later as determined by the date of grant. There are no grants remaining
available to issue from the 1998 Directors’ Plan.

•

During 2000, the Board approved the 2000 Broadly-Based Stock Option Plan (the
“2000 Plan”). The Company did not seek approval from its shareholders for the
2000 Plan. There are 2,000,000 Options authorized under the 2000 Plan. All
Options are granted at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the
Company’s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior to the date
of grant. Grants under the 2000 Plan are available to both employees and members
of the Board. The distribution of Options to key employees and members of the
board, in aggregate, are limited to 50% or less of the total options authorized
under the 2000 Plan. Options granted under the 2000 Plan expire 10 years from the
date of grant, and generally vest annually in 25% increments beginning on December
31, 2006, or later depending on the date of grant. There are no grants remaining
available to issue from the 2000 Plan.

•

During 2010, the Company’s shareholders approved the Board of Directors’
adoption of the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2010 Equity Plan”). The 2010
Equity Plan authorizes the Company to issue non-qualified stock options
(“Options”) and restricted share units (“RSUs”) to key management employees,
including executive officers and Board members, to acquire up to an aggregate
700,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. Of the 700,000 aggregate shares
available to issue, up to 240,000 may be granted in the form of RSUs. All Options
are granted at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the Company’s
common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior to the date of grant,
and all RSUs are granted at a $0 exercise price. The Options and RSUs are granted
for a 10-year period. The RSUs generally vest annually in 50% increments
beginning on December 31, 2011, and the Options generally vest as to 50% of the
underlying shares in annual increments beginning on December 31, 2013. At
December 31, 2010, there were 270,247 shares available to be granted under the
2010 Equity Plan, of which 90,273 may be granted as RSU’s.

During 2010, the Company issued Options to purchase 152,690
shares of its common stock under the 2000 Plan. The Company also issued 282,143 Options and
150,504 RSUs under the 2010 Plan. The exercise price of each Option granted was equal to the
closing price of the Company’s common stock on the day immediately preceding the date of grant, and
each RSU was granted at a $0 exercise price. Each Option and RSU was granted for a term of ten
(10) years from the date of grant. The majority of the Options will vest in 50% increments on each
of December 31, 2013 and 2014, and the RSUs will vest in 50% increments on each of December 31,
2011 and 2012. All Options and RSUs granted are subject to the grantee’s continued employment or
continued service as a Director, as applicable.

The following table provides additional information relative to NVR’s equity-based
compensation plans for the year ended December 31, 2010:


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Remaining

Aggregate

Exercise

Contract Life

Intrinsic

Options

Price

(Years)

Value

Stock Options

Outstanding at beginning of period

999,142

$

342.08

Granted

434,833

701.94

Exercised

(359,765

)

218.55

Forfeited

(20,723

)

524.91

Expired

(62

)

759.00

Outstanding at end of period

1,053,425

$

529.18

6.2

$

170,486

Exercisable at end of period

567,383

$

400.94

3.3

$

164,586

RSUs (1)

Outstanding at beginning of period

—

Granted

150,504

Forfeited

(777

)

Outstanding at end of period

149,727

$

103,464

Exercisable at end of period

—

$

—

(1)

RSUs granted in the current year were issued at a $0 exercise price.

To estimate the grant-date fair value of its stock options, the Company uses the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes model estimates the per share fair value of
an option on its date of grant based on the following factors: the option’s exercise price; the
price of the underlying stock on the date of grant; the estimated dividend yield; a “risk-free”
interest rate; the estimated option term; and the expected volatility. For the “risk-free”
interest rate, the Company uses a U.S. Treasury Strip due in a number of years equal to the
option’s expected term. NVR has concluded that its historical exercise experience is the best
estimate of future exercise patterns to determine an option’s expected term. To estimate expected
volatility, NVR analyzed the historic volatility of its common stock over a period equal to the
option’s expected term. The fair value of the Options granted during 2010 was estimated on the
grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model based on the following assumptions:




Estimated option life

5.02 years

4.70 years

3.95 years

Risk free interest rate (range)

0.99% - 2.84

%

1.78% - 3.65

%

1.00% - 4.19

%

Expected volatility (range)

34.34% - 41.12

%

31.83% - 41.72

%

31.57% - 38.75

%

Expected dividend rate

0.00

%

0.00

%

0.00

%

Weighted average grant-date fair
value per share of options granted

$

256.35

$

187.10

$

156.85

In accordance with ASC Topic 718,

Compensation-Stock Compensation

, the fair value of the
RSUs is measured as if they were vested and issued on the grant date. Additionally, under ASC 718,
service only restrictions on vesting of RSUs are not reflected in the fair value calculation at the
grant date. As a result, the fair value of the RSUs was the closing price of the Company’s common
stock on the day immediately preceding the date of grant. The weighted average fair value of the
RSUs granted in the current year was $702.94 per share.

Compensation cost for Options and RSUs is recognized on a straight-line basis over the
requisite service period for the entire award (from the date of grant through the period of the
last separately vesting


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

portion of the grant). For the recognition of equity-based compensation, the RSUs are treated as a
separate award from the Options. Compensation cost is recognized within the income statement in
the same expense line as the cash compensation paid to the respective employees. ASC 718 also
requires the Company to estimate forfeitures in calculating the expense related to stock-based
compensation and requires that the compensation costs of stock-based awards be recognized net of
estimated forfeitures. The impact on compensation costs due to changes in the expected forfeiture
rate will be recognized in the period that they become known. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, the Company
recognized $53,136, $46,302 and $41,204 in equity-based compensation costs, respectively, and
approximately $19,200, $18,000 and $12,600 tax benefit related to equity-based compensation costs,
respectively. In 2010, the Company reversed approximately $7,600 in stock-based compensation
expense previously recorded to adjust compensation expense for the actual forfeiture experience
from prior forfeiture rate estimates. The reversal was made to the accounts originally charged as
follows; approximately $6,600 and $400 from homebuilding general and administrative and cost of
sales expense, respectively, and approximately $600 from NVRM general and administrative expense.

As of December 31, 2010, the total unrecognized compensation cost for all outstanding Options
and RSUs equals approximately $165,232, net of estimated forfeitures. The unrecognized
compensation cost will be recognized over each grant’s applicable vesting period with the latest
vesting date being December 31, 2016. The weighted-average period over which the unrecognized
compensation will be recorded is equal to approximately 2.1 years.

The Company settles option exercises by issuing shares of treasury stock to option holders.
Shares are relieved from the treasury account based on the weighted average cost of treasury shares
acquired. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, options to purchase shares of
the Company’s common stock of 359,765; 418,775 and 426,751 were exercised. Information with
respect to the exercised options is as follows:




Aggregate exercise proceeds (1)

$

78,626

$

79,157

$

70,978

Aggregate intrinsic value on exercise dates

$

165,007

$

135,652

$

175,190

(1)

Aggregate exercise proceeds include the option exercise price received in cash or
the fair market value of NVR stock surrendered by the optionee in lieu of cash.

The Company has elected the alternative transition method to establish the beginning balance
of the additional paid-in capital pool available to absorb any future write-offs of deferred tax
benefits associated with stock-based compensation.

Profit Sharing Plans

NVR has a trustee-administered, profit sharing retirement plan (the “Profit Sharing
Plan”) and an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) covering substantially all employees.
The Profit Sharing Plan and the ESOP provide for annual discretionary contributions in amounts
as determined by the NVR Board of Directors. The combined plan contribution for the years
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $6,567, $6,447 and $6,856, respectively. The ESOP
purchased approximately 8,700
and 9,400 shares of NVR common stock in the open market for the 2010 and 2009 plan year
contributions, respectively, using cash contributions provided by the Company. As of December
31, 2010, all shares held by the ESOP had been allocated to participants’ accounts. The 2010
plan year contribution was funded and fully allocated to participants in February 2011.


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Deferred Compensation Plans

The Company has two deferred compensation plans (“Deferred Comp Plans”). The specific
purpose of the Deferred Comp Plans is to i) establish a vehicle whereby named executive
officers may defer the receipt of salary and bonus that otherwise would be nondeductible for
Company tax purposes into a period where the Company would realize a tax deduction for the
amounts paid, and ii) to enable certain of our employees who are subject to the Company’s
stock holding requirements to acquire shares of our common stock on a pre-tax basis in order
to more quickly meet, and maintain compliance with those stock holding requirements. Amounts
deferred into the Deferred Comp Plans are invested in NVR common stock, held in a rabbi trust
account, and are paid out in a fixed number of shares upon expiration of the deferral period.

The rabbi trust account held 158,894 and 265,278 shares of NVR common stock as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. During 2010, 106,384 shares of NVR common stock
were issued from the rabbi trust related to deferred compensation for which the deferral
period ended. There were no shares of NVR common stock contributed to the rabbi trust in
2010, 2009 or 2008. Shares held by the Deferred Comp Plan are treated as outstanding shares
in the Company’s earnings per share calculation for each of the years ended December 31, 2010,
2009 and 2008.

10. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

NVR is committed under multiple non-cancelable operating leases involving office space,
model homes, manufacturing facilities, automobiles and equipment. Future minimum lease
payments under these operating leases as of December 31, 2010 are as follows:

Year ended December 31,


$

19,014


13,715


10,305


8,188


6,260

Thereafter

16,926

74,408

Sublease income

(1,201

)

$

73,207

Total rent expense incurred under operating leases was approximately $29,741,
$34,024 and $45,841 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

The Company generally does not engage in the land development business. Instead, the
Company typically acquires finished building lots at market prices from various development
entities
under fixed price purchase agreements. The purchase agreements require deposits that may
be forfeited if the Company fails to perform under the agreement. The deposits required under
the purchase agreements are in the form of cash or letters of credit in varying amounts, and
typically range up to 10% of the aggregate purchase price of the finished lots. The Company
believes this lot acquisition strategy reduces the financial requirements and risks associated
with direct land ownership and land development. The Company generally seeks to maintain
control over a supply of lots believed to be suitable to meet its five-year business plan. At
December 31, 2010, assuming that contractual development milestones are met, the Company is
committed to placing additional forfeitable deposits with land developers under existing lot
option contracts of $43,178. The Company also has seven specific performance contracts
pursuant to


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

which the Company is committed to purchasing forty-three finished lots at an aggregate
purchase price of approximately $1,900.

During the ordinary course of operating the mortgage banking and homebuilding businesses,
the Company is required to enter into bond or letter of credit arrangements with local
municipalities, government agencies, or land developers to collateralize its obligations under
various contracts. The Company had approximately $38,300 of contingent obligations under such
agreements (including $16,400 for letters of credit as described in Note 6(a) herein) as of
December 31, 2010. The Company believes it will fulfill its obligations under the related
contracts and does not anticipate any material losses under these bonds or letters of credit.

The following table reflects the changes in the Company’s warranty reserve for the
following (see Note 1 herein for further discussion of warranty/product liability reserves):

Year Ended

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2010

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

Warranty reserve, beginning of year

$

64,417

$

68,084

$

70,284

Provision

44,633

35,688

40,468

Payments

(39,263

)

(39,355

)

(42,668

)

Warranty reserve, end of year

$

69,787

$

64,417

$

68,084

On July 18, 2007, former and current employees filed lawsuits against the Company in the
Court of Common Pleas in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania and Hamilton County, Ohio, in Superior
Court in Durham County, North Carolina, and in the Circuit Court in Montgomery County, Maryland,
and on July 19, 2007 in the Superior Court in New Jersey, alleging that the Company incorrectly
classified its sales and marketing representatives as being exempt from overtime wages. These
lawsuits are similar in nature to another lawsuit filed on October 29, 2004 by another former
employee in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York. The complaints
seek injunctive relief, an award of unpaid wages, including fringe benefits, liquidated damages
equal to the overtime wages allegedly due and not paid, attorney and other fees and interest, and
where available, multiple damages. The suits were filed as purported class actions. However,
while a number of individuals have filed consents to join and assert federal claims in the New York
action, none of the groups of employees that the lawsuits purport to represent have been certified
as a class. The lawsuits filed in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland, New Jersey and North Carolina have
been stayed pending further developments in the New York action.

The Company believes that its compensation practices in regard to sales and marketing
representatives are entirely lawful and in compliance with two letter rulings from the United
States Department of Labor
(“DOL”) issued in January 2007. The two courts to most recently consider similar claims
against other homebuilders have acknowledged the DOL’s position that sales and marketing
representatives were properly classified as exempt from overtime wages and the only court to have
directly addressed the exempt status of such employees concluded that the DOL’s position was valid.
Accordingly, the Company has vigorously defended and intends to continue to vigorously defend
these lawsuits. Because the Company is unable to determine the likelihood of an unfavorable
outcome of this case, or the amount of damages, if any, the Company has not recorded any associated
liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

In June 2010, the Company received a Request for Information from the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) pursuant to Section 308 of the Clean Water Act. The
request seeks information about storm water discharge practices in connection with homebuilding
projects completed or underway by the Company. The Company has been cooperating with this request,
has provided information to the EPA and intends to continue cooperating with the EPA’s inquiries.
At this time, the Company cannot predict the outcome of this inquiry, nor can it reasonably
estimate the potential costs that may be associated


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

with its eventual resolution.

In April 2010, NVRM received a Report of Examination (“ROE”) from the Office of the
Commissioner of Banks of the State of North Carolina (the “NCCOB”) reporting certain findings that
resulted from the NCCOB’s examination of selected files relating to loans originated by NVRM in
North Carolina between August 1, 2006 and August 31, 2009. The ROE alleged that certain of the
loan files reflected violations of North Carolina and/or U.S. lending or consumer protection laws.
The ROE requested that NVRM correct or otherwise address the alleged violations and in some
instances requested that NVRM undertake an examination of all of its other loans in North Carolina
to determine whether similar alleged violations may have occurred, and if so, to take corrective
action. NVRM responded to the ROE by letter dated June 10, 2010, contesting the findings and
allegations, providing factual information to correct certain of the findings, and refuting the
NCCOB’s interpretation of applicable law. On November 15, 2010, the NCCOB provided a written
response to NVRM’s June 10, 2010 letter closing certain alleged violations while reasserting
certain other violations. On January 12, 2011, NVRM responded to the NCCOB’s November 15, 2010
letter providing additional factual information to address the remaining findings, and refuting the
NCCOB’s interpretation of applicable law. Accordingly, while the outcome of the matter is
currently not determinable, the Company does not expect resolution of the matter to have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial position.

The Company and its subsidiaries are also involved in various other litigation arising in the
ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, and based on advice of legal counsel,
this litigation is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the financial position or
results of operations of the Company. Legal costs incurred in connection with outstanding
litigation are expensed as incurred.

11. Fair Value

Financial Instruments

On June 15, 2010, the Company redeemed upon maturity, the outstanding 5% Senior Notes due 2010
(“Senior Notes”) at par. As of December 31, 2009, the carrying value of the Senior Notes was
$133,370, and the estimated fair value, which is based on a quoted market price, was $134,829.

Derivative Instruments and Mortgage Loans Held for Sale

In the normal course of business, NVR’s mortgage banking segment enters into contractual
commitments to extend credit to buyers of single-family homes with fixed expiration dates.
The commitments become effective when the borrowers “lock-in” a specified interest rate within time
frames established by NVR. All mortgagors are evaluated for credit worthiness prior to the
extension of the commitment. Market risk arises if interest rates move adversely between the time
of the “lock-in” of rates by the borrower and the sale date of the loan to a broker/dealer. To
mitigate the effect of the interest rate risk inherent in providing rate lock commitments
to borrowers, the Company enters into optional or mandatory delivery forward sale contracts to sell
whole loans and mortgage-backed securities to broker/dealers. The forward sale contracts lock in
an interest rate and price for the sale of loans similar to the specific rate lock commitments.
NVR does not engage in speculative or trading derivative activities. Both the rate lock
commitments to borrowers and the forward sale contracts to broker/dealers are undesignated
derivatives and, accordingly, are marked to fair value through earnings. At December 31, 2010,
there were contractual commitments to extend credit to borrowers aggregating $96,265 and open
forward delivery contracts aggregating $262,839.

GAAP assigns a fair value hierarchy to the inputs used to measure fair value. Level 1 inputs
are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 inputs are
inputs other than quoted market prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either
directly or indirectly. Level 3 inputs are


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

unobservable inputs. The fair value of the Company’s rate lock commitments to borrowers and the
related input levels includes, as applicable:

i)

the assumed gain/loss of the expected resultant loan sale (level 2);

ii)

the effects of interest rate movements between the date of the rate lock and
the balance sheet date (level 2); and

iii)

the value of the servicing rights associated with the loan (level 2).

The assumed gain/loss considers the amount that the Company has discounted the price to the
borrower from par for competitive reasons and the excess servicing to be received or buydown fees
to be paid upon securitization of the loan. The excess servicing and buydown fees are calculated
pursuant to contractual terms with investors. To calculate the effects of interest rate movements,
the Company utilizes applicable published mortgage-backed security prices, and multiplies the price
movement between the rate lock date and the balance sheet date by the notional loan commitment
amount. The Company sells all of its loans on a servicing released basis, and receives a servicing
released premium upon sale. Thus, the value of the servicing rights, which averaged 148 basis
points of the loan amount as of December 31, 2010, is included in the fair value measurement and is
based upon contractual terms with investors and varies depending on the loan type. The Company
assumes an approximate 7% fallout rate when measuring the fair value of rate lock commitments.
Fallout is defined as locked loan commitments for which the Company does not close a mortgage loan
and is based on historical experience.

The fair value of the Company’s forward sales contracts to broker/dealers solely considers the
market price movement of the same type of security between the trade date and the balance sheet
date (level 2). The market price changes are multiplied by the notional amount of the forward
sales contracts to measure the fair value.

Mortgage loans held for sale are recorded at fair value when closed, and thereafter are
carried at the lower of cost or fair value, net of deferred origination costs, until sold. The
fair value of loans held for sale of $177,244 included in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet has been reduced by $4,453 from the aggregate principal balance of $181,697.

The undesignated derivative instruments are included in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet as follows:

Balance

Sheet

Fair

Value

Location

December 31, 2010

Derivative Assets:

Rate Lock Commitments and
Forward Sales Contracts

NVRM - Other assets

$

5,461

The unrealized gain or loss from the change in the fair value measurements is included in
earnings as a component of mortgage banking fees in the accompanying consolidated statements of
income as follows:


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Assumed

Interest

Total Fair

Notional or

Gain (Loss)

Rate

Servicing

Security

Value

Principal

From Loan

Movement

Rights

Price

Adjustment

Amount

Sale

Effect

Value

Change

Gain/(Loss)

Rate lock commitments

$

96,265

$

(459

)

$

(317

)

$

1,333

$

—

$


Forward sales contracts

$

262,839

—

—

—

4,904

4,904

Mortgages held for sale

$

181,697

(907

)

(6,217

)

2,671

—

(4,453

)

Total Fair Value Measurement, December
31, 2010

(1,366

)

(6,534

)

4,004

4,904

1,008

Less: Fair Value Measurement, December
31, 2009

(788

)

(2,501

)

2,187

2,445

1,343

Total Fair Value Adjustment for the
period ended December 31, 2010

$

(578

)

$

(4,033

)

$

1,817

$

2,459

$

(335

)

The fair value measurement will be impacted in the future by the change in the value of
the servicing rights and the volume and product mix of the Company’s closed loans and locked loan
commitments.

12. Mortgage Loan Loss Allowance

During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company recorded pre-tax charges
for loan losses of approximately $6,200, $200 and $850, respectively. Included in the Mortgage
Banking segment’s Accounts Payable and Other Liabilities line item within the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet is a mortgage loan loss allowance equal to approximately $8,200 and
$3,200 at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.

13. Quarterly Results (unaudited)

The following table sets forth unaudited selected financial data and operating information on
a quarterly basis for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.

Year Ended December 31, 2010

4th

3rd

2nd

1st

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Revenues-homebuilding
operations

$

794,470

$

661,935

$

946,972

$

577,381

Gross profit — homebuilding
operations

$

139,505

$

121,152

$

175,497

$

106,312

Mortgage banking fees

$

16,535

$

14,234

$

17,532

$

12,833

Net income

$

58,698

$

43,944

$

71,276

$

32,087

Diluted earnings per share

$

9.96

$

7.31

$

11.13

$

5.01

Contracts for sale, net
of cancellations (units)

1,765

2,151

2,559

2,940

Settlements (units)

2,639

2,127

3,345

1,919

Backlog, end of period (units)

2,916

3,790

3,766

4,552

Loans closed

$

597,949

$

497,404

$

706,551

$

418,042


NVR, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

(dollars in thousands, except per share data)

Year Ended December 31, 2009

4th

3rd

2nd

1st

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Quarter

Revenues-homebuilding
operations

$

730,140

$

792,510

$

612,488

$

548,329

Gross profit — homebuilding
operations

$

137,919

$

155,868

$

118,248

$

85,699

Mortgage banking fees

$

15,662

$

21,506

$

12,943

$

10,270

Net income

$

60,639

$

72,127

$

41,426

$

17,988

Diluted earnings per share

$

9.61

$

11.59

$

6.79

$

3.02

Contracts for sale, net
of cancellations (units)

2,000

2,255

2,728

2,426

Settlements (units)

2,550

2,671

2,048

1,773

Backlog, end of period (units)

3,531

4,081

4,497

3,817

Loans closed

$

542,147

$

603,317

$

487,618

$

427,294

84