ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



The Western Union Company (the “Company,”
    “Western Union,” “we,” “our” or
    “us”) is a leader in global money movement and payment
    services, providing people and businesses with fast, reliable
    and convenient ways to send money and make payments around the
    world.



The Western
    Union®brand is globally recognized and represents speed, reliability,
    trust and convenience. As people move and travel around the
    world, they are able to use the services of a well recognized
    brand to transfer funds. Ourconsumer-to-consumermoney transfer service enables people to send money around the
    world in minutes. Our services are available through a global
    network of more than 445,000 agent locations in more than 200
    countries and territories, with approximately 85% of those
    locations outside of the United States. Each location in our
    agent network is capable of providing one or more of our
    services, with the majority offering a Western Union branded
    service. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 75% of our
    locations had experienced money transfer activity in the prior
    12 months.



Our global business payments service provides consumers and
    businesses with flexible and convenient options for making
    one-time or recurring bill payments, includingbusiness-to-businesscross-border, cross currency payment transactions. In September
    2009, we acquired Canada-based Custom House, Ltd. (“Custom
    House”), a provider of internationalbusiness-to-businesscross-border, cross-currency payment services. In the third
    quarter of 2010, Custom House was rebranded “Western
    Union®Business Solutions.” Although the majority of the revenue
    in our global business payments segment was generated in the
    United States, international expansion and other key strategic
    initiatives have resulted in international revenue continuing to
    increase in this segment.



We believe that brand strength, size and reach of our global
    network, and convenience and reliability for our customers have
    been important factors relating to the growth of our business.
    As we continue to meet the needs of our customers for fast,
    reliable and convenient money transfer services, we are also
    working to enhance our services and provide our consumer and
    business clients with access to an expanding portfolio of
    payment and other financial services.



The majority of our revenue comes from fees that consumers pay
    when they send money or make payments. In certain money transfer
    and payment services transactions involving different send and
    receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference
    between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business
    and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire
    currency.



Our
    Segments



We manage our business based on the customers we serve and the
    type of services we offer. Each segment addresses a different
    combination of customer needs, distribution networks and
    services. Our segments areconsumer-to-consumerand global business payments. Our other businesses not included
    in these segments primarily consist of Western Union branded
    money order services available through a network of third-party
    agents primarily in the United States and Canada.



The table below presents the components of our consolidated
    revenue:



201020092008Consumer-to-consumer (a)EMEASA (b)44%45%44%Americas (c)31%32%34%APAC (d)9%8%7%Totalconsumer-to-consumer84%85%85%Global business payments14%14%14%Other2%1%1%100%100%100%











(a)The geographic split is determined based upon the region where
    the money transfer is initiated and the region where the money
    transfer is paid. For transactions originated and paid in
    different regions, we split the revenue between the two regions,
    with each region receiving 50%. For money transfers initiated
    and paid in the same region, 100% of the revenue is attributed
    to that region.(b)Represents the Europe, Middle East, Africa and South Asia region
    of ourconsumer-to-consumersegment, including India.(c)Represents the Americas region of ourconsumer-to-consumersegment, which includes North America, Latin America, the
    Caribbean and South America.(d)Represents the Asia Pacific region of ourconsumer-to-consumersegment.



Financial information relating to our international and domestic
    revenues and long-lived assets for all of our segments is set
    forth in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    in Item 8.



For additional details regarding ourconsumer-to-consumerand global business payments segments, including financial
    information regarding our international and United States
    operations, see Item 7 of Part II and our financial
    statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere
    in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



See Risk Factors for a discussion of certain risks relating to
    our foreign operations.



Consumer-to-ConsumerSegment



Individual money transfers from one consumer to another are the
    core of our business, representing 84% of our total consolidated
    revenues for 2010. We offer consumers a variety of ways to send
    money. Although most remittances are sent from one of our more
    than 445,000 agent locations worldwide, in some countries we
    offer the ability to send money over the internet or the
    telephone, using a credit or debit card, or through a withdrawal
    directly from a consumer’s bank account. All agent
    locations accept cash to initiate a transaction, and some also
    accept debit cards. We also offer consumers several options to
    receive a money transfer. While the vast majority of transfers
    are paid in cash at agent locations, in some places we offer
    payout directly to the receiver’s bank account, to a
    stored-value card, to a mobile phone or through the issuance of
    a money order.



Operations



Our revenue is derived primarily from transaction fees charged
    to consumers to transfer money. In money transfers involving
    different send and receive currencies, we also generate revenue
    based on the difference between the exchange rate set by Western
    Union to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are
    able to acquire currency.



In a typical money transfer transaction, a consumer goes to one
    of our agent locations, completes a form specifying, among other
    things, the name and address of the recipient, and delivers it,
    along with the principal amount of the money transfer and the
    fee, to the agent. This sending agent enters the transaction
    information into our money transfer system and the funds are
    made available for payment, usually within minutes. The
    recipient enters an agent location in the designated receiving
    area or country, presents identification and is paid the
    transferred amount. Recipients do not pay a fee (although in
    limited circumstances, a tax may be imposed by the local
    government on the receipt of the money transfer). We determine
    the fee paid by the sender, which generally is based on the
    principal amount of the transaction and the send and receive
    locations.



We generally pay our agents a commission based on a percentage
    of revenue. The commission is shared between the agent that
    initiated the transaction, the “send agent,” and the
    agent that paid the transaction, the “receive agent.”
    For most agents, the costs of providing the physical
    infrastructure and staff are typically covered by the
    agent’s primary business (e.g., postal services, banking,
    check cashing, travel and retail businesses), making the
    economics of being a Western Union agent attractive. Western
    Union’s global reach and large consumer base allow us to
    attract agents we believe to be of high quality.



To complement the convenience offered by our network’s
    global physical locations, in certain countries we have also
    made our services available through other channels, as described
    below under “Services.”





Over 85% of ourconsumer-to-consumertransactions involve at least onenon-UnitedStates location. No individual country outside the United States
    accounted for more than approximately 6%, 6% and 7% of our
    consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. Certain of our agents facilitate a
    large number of transactions; however, all individual agents
    accounted for less than 10% of the segment’s revenue during
    these periods.



Services



We offer money transfer services worldwide. In 2010, over 95% of
    ourconsumer-to-consumertransactions were cash money transfers involving our walk-in
    agent locations around the world. Although demand for in-person,
    cash money transfers has historically been the strongest, we
    offer a number of options for sending and receiving funds that
    provide consumer convenience and choice to meet the needs of
    consumers. The different ways consumers can send or receive
    money include the following:



Walk-in money transfer service.The substantial
    majority of our remittances constitute transactions in which
    cash is collected by the agent and payment (usually cash) is
    available forpick-upat
    another agent location in the designated receive location,
    usually within minutes. In the United States, including some
    United States outbound corridors, Canada and in other select
    international corridors, we provide a “Direct to Bank”
    service, enabling a consumer to send a transaction from an agent
    location directly to a bank account. We also provide a
    “Cash to Card” service that provides consumers an
    option to direct funds to a Western Union branded stored-value
    card in the United States, with the option to have the card
    delivered overnight to consumers’ homes. To facilitate
    offering our services at retail locations that do not have
    dedicated service staff, we are in the early stages of the
    roll-out of
    “goCASHsm”

    in the United States, a money transfer service that lets
    consumers purchase money transfers at pre-set amountsin-lane,at
    a cash register, and then complete the transfer over the phone
    through a Western Union customer service representative or
    through a website.



Our “Next Day” delivery option is a money transfer
    that is available for payment the morning after the money
    transfer is sent. This option is available in certain markets
    for domestic service within the United States, and in select
    United States outbound and international corridors. The Next Day
    delivery service gives our consumers a lower-priced option for
    money transfers that do not need to be received within minutes,
    while still offering the convenience, reliability andease-of-usethat our consumers expect.



Online money transfer service.Our websites allow
    consumers to send funds on-line, generally using a credit or
    debit card, for pay-out at most Western Union branded agent
    locations around the world. As of December 31, 2010, we are
    now providing on-line money transfer service in 20 countries,
    allowing consumers in these countries to send money throughout
    the world.



Telephone money transfer service.Our Telephone
    Money Transfer service allows Western Union consumers to send
    funds by telephone without visiting an agent location. Consumers
    call a toll-free number in the United States, Canada, Ireland or
    the United Kingdom and use a debit card or credit card to
    initiate a transaction. The money transfer is then available for
    pay-out at a Western Union agent location.



Account based money transfer service.This service
    allows consumers to access Western Union services
    electronically, directly from their bank’s internet, or ATM
    banking service. They can use their bank account to either
    initiate, or in some cases, receive a Western Union money
    transfer electronically, without having to visit a physical
    Western Union agent location. We have relationships with 40
    banks that have agreed to offer this service, primarily through
    their online banking portals.



Mobile money transfer service.Our mobile money
    transfer service provides consumers in a number of select
    countries with the ability to transfer money to a mobile wallet
    or bank account. Consumers in selected countries can also
    initiate transactions from their mobile phones and send money
    from mobile wallets or bank accounts. As of December 31,
    2010, there were over 80,000 Western Union agent locations
    enabled with the technology to transfer money to a mobile phone.





Distribution
    and Marketing Channels



We offer ourconsumer-to-consumerservice to millions of consumers around the world primarily
    through our global network of third-party agents in almost every
    country and territory, with approximately 85% of our agent
    locations being located outside of the United States. Our agents
    facilitate the global distribution and convenience associated
    with our Western Union and other brands, which in-turn helps
    create demand for our services and helps us to recruit and
    retain agents. Western Union agents include large networks such
    as post offices, banks and retailers and other established
    organizations that provide other consumer products and services.
    Many of our agents have multiple locations. Our agents know the
    markets they serve and work with our management to develop
    business plans for their markets. Many of our agents contribute
    financial resources, or otherwise support, our efforts to market
    the business. Many agents operate in locations that are open
    outside of traditional banking hours, for example on nights and
    weekends. Our top 40 agents globally have been with us an
    average of approximately 14 years, and in 2010, these
    long-standing agents were involved in transactions that
    generated more than 60% of ourconsumer-to-consumerrevenue.



We provide our third-party agents with our multi-currency,
    real-time money transfer processing systems used to originate
    and pay money transfers. Over the last several years, we have
    emphasized the development of our receive network around the
    world to optimize send and receive corridors. Our systems and
    processes enable our agents to pay money transfers in more than
    120 currencies worldwide. Many of our agents can pay in multiple
    currencies at a single location. Our agents provide the physical
    infrastructure and staff required to complete the transfers.
    Western Union provides central operating functions such as
    transaction processing, settlement, marketing support and
    customer relationship management to our agents.



Some of our agents outside the United States manage subagents.
    We refer to these agents as superagents. Although our subagents
    are under contract with these superagents (and not with Western
    Union directly), the subagent locations typically have access to
    the same technology and services as our other agent locations.



Our international agents often customize services as appropriate
    for their geographic markets. In some markets, individual agents
    are independently offering specific services such as
    stored-value card payout options and Direct to Bank service. Our
    marketing benefits from feedback from our agents and consumers,
    and in many of our markets, our agents fund marketing activities.



Our marketing strategy includes our global loyalty card program,
    which is available in a growing number of countries and
    territories. As of December 31, 2010, the loyalty card
    program was available in 80 countries and territories and had
    almost 16 million active cards, an increase in the number
    of active cards of 18% from December 31, 2009. The card
    offers consumers faster service at thepoint-of-saleand, in certain countries, reduced service fees or cash back to
    consumers. Loyalty card consumers generally initiate more
    transactions and have a higher rate of retention than non-carded
    consumers. Over one-third of Western Union brandedconsumer-to-consumertransactions are initiated using a loyalty card. The global
    loyalty card program is one component of our consumer
    relationship management strategy designed to support and enhance
    long-term relationships with our consumers. Consumer databases
    supplement these efforts by providing insight on consumer
    preferences so that we can selectively target consumer
    communications and marketing.



Industry
    Trends



Over the last several years, except for 2009, the cross-border
    money transfer industry has experienced growth. Trends in the
    cross-border money transfer business tend to correlate to
    migration trends, global economic opportunity and related
    employment rates worldwide. The top four inbound remittance
    countries in the world are India, China, Mexico and the
    Philippines, and cumulatively receive an estimated
    $150 billion annually according to The World Bank’s
    November 2010 report. Due to the weak global economy, including
    declines in consumer confidence and high unemployment, the
    demand for money transfers has softened. The World Bank projects
    cross-border remittance growth of approximately 5% in 2011. We
    anticipate that the remittance market will continue to recover
    as the global economy improves.



Another significant trend impacting the money transfer industry
    is the increase in regulation. Regulation in the United States
    and elsewhere focuses, in part, on anti-money laundering,
    anti-terrorist activities and consumer





protection. Regulations require money transfer providers, banks
    and other financial institutions to develop systems to detect,
    monitor and report certain transactions.



Competition



We face robust competition in the highly-fragmentedconsumer-to-consumermoney transfer industry. We compete with a variety of money
    transfer service providers, including:



•Global money transfer providers—Global money
    transfer providers allow consumers to send money to a wide
    variety of locations, in both their home countries and abroad.•Regional money transfer providers—Regional money
    transfer providers, or “niche” players, provide the
    same services as global money transfer providers, but focus on a
    small group of corridors or services within one region, such as
    North America to the Caribbean, Central or South America, or
    Western Europe to North Africa.•Banks and postbanks—Banks and postbanks of all sizes
    compete with us in a number of ways, including bank wire
    services and card-based services. We believe that banks and
    postbanks offer consumers wire transfer services and other money
    transfer methods as an incentive to those consumers to purchase
    other services and products.•Informal networks—Informal networks enable people to
    transfer funds without formal mechanisms and often without
    compliance with government reporting requirements. We believe
    that such networks comprise a significant share of the market.•Electronic commerce—Online money transfer services
    allow consumers to send and receive money electronically using
    the internet.•Alternative channels—Alternative channels for
    sending and receiving money include mail and commercial courier
    services, money transfers using mobile phones, and card-based
    options, such as ATM cards and stored-value cards.



We believe the most significant competitive factors inconsumer-to-consumerremittances relate to brand recognition, trust and reliability,
    distribution network and channel options, consumer experience
    and price.



Global
    Business Payments Segment



In our global business payments segment, we provide fast and
    convenient options to make one-time or recurring payments for
    consumers or businesses to other businesses. Our business
    payments services allow consumers to make payments to a variety
    of organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies,
    mortgage servicers, financial service providers, governmental
    agencies and other businesses. We also provide internationalbusiness-to-businesscross-border, cross-currency payment services. We can process
    payments using the customer’s credit card, debit card, bank
    account or cash depending on the service selected. We believe
    our business customers who receive payments through our services
    benefit from their relationship with Western Union as it
    provides them with real-time or near real-time posting of their
    customer payments. In certain circumstances, our relationships
    with business customers also provide them with an additional
    source of income, as well as reduced expenses for cash and check
    handling.



Operations



Our revenue in this segment is derived primarily from
    transaction fees paid by the customer. These fees are typically
    less than the fees charged in ourconsumer-to-consumersegment. Consumers may make a cash payment at an agent or owned
    location and businesses may remit a check, electronic or wire
    transfer in order to initiate a transaction. In order to make an
    electronic payment, consumers or businesses initiate a
    transaction over the telephone or the internet which we process
    through credit card, debit card, automated clearing house
    (“ACH”) or wire transfer, depending on the service
    selected. Our internet services are provided through our own
    websites or, in certain circumstances, in partnership with other
    websites for which we act as the service provider. In
    cross-border transactions involving different currencies, we
    primarily generate revenue based on the difference between the





exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate
    at which we are able to acquire currency. In addition, we
    generate revenue from upfront enrollment fees received for our
    Equity
    Accelerator®service, and we earn investment income on funds received from
    services sold in advance of settlement with payment recipients.



While we continue to pursue further international expansion of
    our offerings in this segment, the majority of the
    segment’s revenue was generated in the United States during
    all periods presented. However, international expansion and
    other key strategic initiatives have resulted in international
    revenue continuing to increase in this segment.



Services



Our global business payments services are available through a
    variety of products which give customers choices as to the
    payment channel and method of payment, and include the following:



Western Union Business Solutions.Western Union
    Business Solutions (“Business Solutions”) offers
    international cross-border, cross-currencybusiness-to-businesspayment solutions. These payment transactions are conducted
    through various channels including the telephone and internet.
    Business Solutions operates its own website to offer services
    and also serves as the ultimate service provider for other
    partner websites. Payments are made predominately through wire
    transfers and ACH, but in some situations, checks are remitted.
    The majority of Business Solutions’ business relates to
    exchanges of currency at the spot rate which enables customers
    to make cross-currency payments. In addition, we write foreign
    currency forward and option contracts for customers to
    facilitate future payments.



Western Union Payments.The Western Union Payments
    service, formerly Quick
    Collect®,

    allows consumers to send funds to businesses and government
    agencies across the United States and Canada, using cash and, in
    certain locations, a debit card. This service is offered
    primarily at Western Union agent locations, but may be provided
    via our westernunion.com website in limited situations. This
    service is also offered in select international locations under
    the service mark Quick
    Paysm.

    We also offer Quick
    Cash®,

    a cash disbursement service used by businesses and government
    agencies to send money to employees or individuals with whom
    they have accounts or other business relationships. Similar to
    our Western Union Payments service, consumers use our Western
    Union Convenience
    Pay®(“Convenience Pay”) service to send payments by cash
    or check from a smaller number of Convenience Pay agent
    locations primarily to utilities and telecommunication
    providers. We are in the process of consolidating all of these
    services to be marketed as Western Union Payments.



Pago
    Fácil®. In

    South America, we offer walk-in, cash bill payment services
    which allow consumers to make payments for services such as
    phone, utilities and other recurring bills. In Argentina, we
    provide this service under the Pago Fácil brand. We offer
    this service under the Western Union brand in Peru and Panama.



Speedpay®. Our

    Speedpay service is offered principally in the United States and
    allows consumers to make payments to a variety of businesses
    using credit cards, debit cards, ACH and in limited situations,
    checks. Payments are initiated over the telephone or the
    internet. We also partner with some businesses to allow their
    customers to access Speedpay from their websites.



Equity Accelerator.Our Equity Accelerator service
    enables consumers to make mortgage payments by ACH. It is
    marketed as a convenient way for homeowners to schedule
    additional recurring principal payments on their mortgages.
    Consumers who enroll in this service make mortgage payments
    based on an accelerated program, which results in a more rapid
    reduction of their mortgage balance, as well as interest
    savings. We also offer a non-recurring mortgage payment service
    under the brand Just in Time
    EFT®.



Distribution
    and Marketing Channels



Our electronic consumer payment services are available primarily
    through the telephone and the internet, while our cash-based
    consumer services are available through our agent networks and
    select Company owned locations. Our business payment services
    are offered through owned locations, telephone, via the internet
    and partner channels.



Businesses market our services to consumers in a number of ways,
    and we market our services directly to consumers and businesses
    using a variety of means, including advertising materials,
    promotional activities, call





campaigns and attendance at trade shows and seminars. Our
    internet services are marketed to consumers and businesses on
    our websites as well as through co-branding arrangements with
    our website partners who offer our payment solutions.



We have relationships with more than 6,400 businesses to which
    our customers can make payments, approximately 2,500 of which
    primarily relate to our bill payment business in Argentina, Pago
    Fácil. These relationships are a core component of our
    global business payments services. On average, we have provided
    our payment services to our top 20 businesses to which our
    consumers can make payments for more than 14 years. No
    individual customer or business accounted for greater than 10%
    of this segment’s revenue during all periods presented.



Industry
    Trends



The global business payments industry has evolved with
    technological innovations that have created new methods of
    processing payments from individuals or businesses to other
    businesses. The various products within the global business
    payments industry are in varying stages of development outside
    the United States. The cross-border payments industry is
    expected to expand considerably in the future due to the
    expanding global focus of many businesses. We believe that the
    United States is in the midst of a trend away from cash and
    paper checks toward electronic payment methods accessible
    through multiple technologies. Furthermore, due to the weak
    economic situation in the United States, we believe many United
    States consumers who would use our services are having
    difficulty paying their bills and are unable to obtain credit in
    any form, resulting in our handling fewer bill payments.



Competition



Western Union competes with a diverse set of service providers
    offering both cash and electronic-based payment solutions andbusiness-to-businesspayment services. Competition in electronic payments andbusiness-to-businesspayment services include financial institutions (which may offer
    consumer bill payment or business payment services in their own
    name or may “host” payment services operated under the
    names of their clients). Competition for electronic payments
    also includes businesses offering their own or third-party
    services to their own customers and third-party providers of all
    sizes offering services directly to consumers. In many cases,
    competitors specialize in a small number of industries.
    Competitors for cash payments include businesses that allow
    consumers to pay a bill at one of their locations, or at the
    location of a partner business, as well as mail and courier
    services. The ongoing trend away from cash based bill payments
    in the United States and competitive pressures, which result in
    lower volumes and a shift to lower revenue per transaction
    products, are impacting this business.



We believe the most significant competitive factors in this
    segment relate to brand recognition, customer service, trust and
    reliability, convenience, speed, variety of payment methods,
    service offerings and price.



For additional details regarding our global business payments
    segment, see Item 7 of Part II and our historical
    financial statements and the notes to those statements included
    elsewhere in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Other



Our remaining businesses are grouped in the “Other”
    category, which primarily includes our money order and prepaid
    services.



Customers use our money orders for making purchases, paying
    bills, and as an alternative to checks that can be deposited
    directly into bank accounts or cashed at check cashiers, some
    banks and some retailers. We derive investment income from
    interest generated on our money order settlement assets, which
    are primarily held in United States tax exempt state and
    municipal debt securities.



Our prepaid cards are sold primarily in the United States
    through retail locations and on the Internet. This service
    allows consumers to load money or receive a direct deposit from
    their employer onto the card for use at a later date. The card
    can be used to withdraw money from an ATM or used where debit
    cards are accepted. We have agreements with FDIC-insured
    depository institutions that serve as the issuers of our cards
    in the United States. We plan to leverage our brand,
    distribution, consumer relationships, and infrastructure to
    develop prepaid in international markets.





Intellectual
    Property



The Western Union brand, consisting of trademark registrations
    in many countries, is material to our Company. The international
    expansion of our agent network over the past decade has taken
    the Western Union brand nearly everywhere consumers send and
    receive money. The loss of the Western Union trademark or a
    diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name
    would harm our growth. We offer money transfer services under
    the Western Union, Orlandi
    Valutasmor
    Vigo®brands in 200 countries and territories, and various global
    business payment services under several brands like Speedpay,
    Equity Accelerator, Just in Time EFT,
    Paymap®,

    Western Union Payments, Quick Collect, Convenience Pay, Quick
    Pay, Quick Cash, Pago Fácil (registered in Argentina),
    Western Union Business Solutions and other trademarks and
    service marks, such as
    MoneyWisetm,

    that are also important to our Company.



Our operating results over the past several years have allowed
    us to invest significantly each year to support our brands. In
    2010, we invested approximately $210 million to market,
    advertise and promote our brands and services. Many of our
    agents have also contributed significant financial resources to
    assist with marketing our services.



We own patents and patent applications covering various aspects
    of our processes and services. We have been, are and in the
    future may be, subject to claims and suits alleging that our
    technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others,
    both in and out of the United States. Unfavorable resolution of
    these claims could require us to change how we deliver services,
    result in significant financial consequences, or both, which
    could adversely affect our business, financial position and
    results of operations.



Risk
    Management



Our Company has a credit risk management department that
    evaluates and monitors our agent-related credit and fraud risks.
    We are exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances
    from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and
    money order settlement process. We also are exposed to credit
    risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through
    our online services and electronic global business payment
    channels, where transactions are originated through means other
    than cash, and may therefore be subject to
    “chargebacks,” insufficient funds or other collection
    impediments, such as fraud. Our credit risk management team
    performs a credit review before each agent signing and conducts
    periodic analyses. As a result, our losses associated with bad
    debts have been less than 1% of our annual revenue in each of
    the last three fiscal years. However, the challenging global
    economic environment may increase our losses associated with bad
    debts.



Our Business Solutions business exposes us to credit risk
    relating to derivative financial instruments written by us to
    our customers. The duration of these derivative contracts is
    generally nine months or less. The credit risk associated with
    our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency
    exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting
    their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to
    us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. To mitigate
    this risk, we perform periodic credit reviews of customers on an
    ongoing basis. In addition, we may require certain customers to
    post collateral based on the fair value of the customer’s
    contract and their risk profile. As we require the receipt of
    funds from our customers, in most cases, before releasing the
    associated cross-currency payment, the credit risk arising from
    our spot foreign currency exchange contracts is largely
    mitigated.



To manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to
    investment securities, money market fund investments and other
    credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with
    banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment
    concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit
    ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among
    global financial institutions.



A key component of the Western Union business model is our
    ability to manage financial risk associated with conducting
    transactions worldwide. We settle accounts with the majority of
    our agents in United States dollars or euros. We utilize foreign
    currency exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts, to
    mitigate the risks associated with currency fluctuations and to
    provide predictability of future cash flows. Limited foreign
    currency risk arises with respect to the agent settlement
    process. The foreign currency exchange risk is limited because
    the majority of money transfer transactions are paid within
    24 hours after they are initiated and agent settlements
    occur within a few days in most instances.





Our financial results may fluctuate due to changes in interest
    rates. We review our overall exposure to floating and fixed
    rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each,
    while also considering the duration of the individual positions.
    We manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an
    attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and optimize returns. Our
    exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix
    of our interest bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of
    fixed versus floating rate debt. The latter is accomplished
    primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the terms
    of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). We use
    interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the
    percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions.



International
    Investment





Regulation



and/or

and/or



We have developed and continue to enhance our global compliance
    programs, including our anti-money laundering program,
    comprising policies, procedures, systems and internal controls
    to monitor and to address various legal and regulatory
    requirements. In addition, we continue to adapt our business
    practices and strategies to help us comply with current and
    evolving legal standards and industry practices. These programs
    include dedicated compliance personnel, training and monitoring
    programs, suspicious activity reporting, regulatory outreach and
    education, and support and guidance to our agent network on
    regulatory compliance. Our money transfer network operates
    through third-party agents in most countries, and, therefore,
    our legal and practical ability to control those agents’
    compliance activities is limited.





Dodd-Frank
    Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act



The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
    (the “Financial Reform Act” or “Act”) became
    United States federal law in 2010. The Financial Reform Act
    creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (the
    “Consumer Protection Bureau”) whose purpose will be to
    issue and enforce consumer protection initiatives governing
    financial products and services, including money transfer
    services in the United States, which will require us to provide
    enhanced disclosures to our money transfer customers. Depending
    upon the final rules to be issued by the Consumer Protection
    Bureau, we may need to modify our systems to provide these
    additional disclosures or we may be liable for the failure of
    our money transfer agents to comply with the Act, the extent of
    which liability will be determined by rules not yet enacted. In
    addition, rules adopted under the Act by other governmental
    agencies may subject our corporate interest rate and foreign
    exchange hedging transactions to centralized clearing and
    collateral posting requirements. Also, our Business Solutions
    business in the United States may be subjected to increased
    regulatory oversight and licensing requirements relating to the
    foreign exchange derivative products offered to certain of its
    customers.



Money
    Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing and
    Regulation



In the United States, most states license money transfer
    services providers. Many states exercise authority over the
    operations of our money transfer services and, as part of this
    authority, regularly examine us. Many states require us to
    invest the proceeds of money transfers in high-quality,
    investment grade securities, and our use of such investments is
    restricted to satisfy outstanding settlement obligations. We
    regularly monitor credit risk and attempt to mitigate our
    exposure by making high-quality investments in compliance with
    these regulations. The majority of our investment securities,
    classified within “settlement assets” in the
    consolidated balance sheets, most of which relate to state
    licensing requirements in the United States, had credit ratings
    of “AA-” or better from a major credit rating agency
    as of December 31, 2010.



These licensing laws also cover matters such as government
    approval of controlling shareholders and senior management of
    our licensed entities, regulatory approval of agent locations,
    consumer disclosures and the filing of periodic reports by the
    licensee, and require the licensee to demonstrate and maintain
    certain net worth levels. Many states also require money
    transmitters and their agents to comply with federaland/orstate
    anti-money laundering laws and regulations.



Our money transfer and money order services are subject to
    anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank
    Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
    (collectively, the “BSA”) and similar state laws and
    regulations. The BSA, among other things, requires money
    transfer companies and the issuers and sellers of money orders,
    to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering
    programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious
    activity, and in some cases, to collect and maintain information
    about consumers who use their services and maintain other
    transaction records. Many states impose similar and, in some
    cases, more stringent requirements. These requirements also
    apply to our agents. In addition, the United States Department
    of the Treasury has interpreted the BSA to require money
    transfer companies to conduct due diligence into and risk-based
    monitoring of their agents inside and outside the United States.



Economic and trade sanctions programs administered by the United
    States Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets
    Control (“OFAC”) prohibit or restrict transactions to
    or from (or dealings with) certain countries, their governments,
    and in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with
    specifically-designated individuals and entities such as
    narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations.
    We provide very limitedconsumer-to-consumerservices to individuals in Cuba, Syria and Sudan pursuant to and
    as authorized by advisory opinions of, or licenses granted by,
    OFAC.



Outside of the United States, our money transfer business is
    subject to some form of regulation in all of the countries and
    territories in which we offer those services. These laws and
    regulations may include limitations on what types of entities
    may offer money transfer services, limitations on the amount of
    principal that can be sent into or out of a country, limitations
    on the number of money transfers that may be sent or received by
    a consumer and controls on the rates of exchange between
    currencies. They may also include laws and regulations intended
    to help detect and prevent money laundering or terrorist
    financing, including reporting requirements similar to those





required under the BSA described earlier. In most countries,
    either we or our agents are required to obtain licenses or
    permits to offer money transfer services.



The Payment Services Directive (“PSD”), which became
    effective on November 1, 2009, has changed the payments
    market in the European Union (“EU”), harmonizing the
    licensing and certain other requirements for offering payment
    services within the EU. Previously, those requirements differed
    significantly among these countries. The PSD also imposed new
    rules on payment service providers like Western Union. In
    particular, the PSD makes us responsible for the regulatory
    compliance of our agents and their subagents in the EU who are
    engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries which
    are regulated by Ireland and the United Kingdom. The majority of
    our EU business will be managed through our PSD subsidiaries by
    April 2011. Thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against
    us because of the actions of our EU agents and their subagents
    has increased. Under the PSD, we are subject to investment
    safeguarding rules and periodic examinations similar to those we
    are subject to in the United States. These rules have resulted
    in increased compliance costs and may lead to increased
    competition in our areas of service.



not-for-profit

Western Union has
    been the subject ofclass-actionlitigation, and remains the subject of other litigation as well
    as consent agreements with or enforcement actions by
    regulators



Government agencies both inside and outside the United States
    may impose new or additional rules on money transfers affecting
    us or our agents, including regulations that:



•prohibit transactions in, to or from certain countries,
    governments and individuals and entities;•impose additional identification, reporting or recordkeeping
    requirements;•limit the types of entities capable of providing money transfer
    services or impose additional licensing or registration
    requirements;•impose minimum capital or other financial requirements on us or
    our agents and their subagents;•limit or restrict the revenue which may be generated from money
    transfers, including transaction fees and revenue derived from
    foreign exchange;•require enhanced disclosures to our money transfer customers;•require the principal amount of money transfers originated in a
    country to be invested in that country or held in trust until
    they are paid; or•limit the number or principal amount of money transfers which
    may be sent to or from the jurisdiction, whether by an
    individual, through one agent or in aggregate.



Escheat
    Regulations



Our Company is subject to unclaimed or abandoned property
    (escheat) laws in the United States and abroad. These laws
    require us to turn over to certain government authorities the
    property of others held by our Company that





has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as
    unpaid money transfers. We hold property subject to escheat laws
    and we have an ongoing program to comply with the laws. We are
    subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices.



Privacy
    and Information Security Regulations



The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of
    personal information is required to provide our services. These
    activities are subject to information security standards, data
    privacy, data breach and related laws and regulations in the
    United States and other countries. In the United States, data
    privacy and data breach laws such as the federal
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and various state laws apply directly to
    a broad range of financial institutions including money
    transmitters like Western Union, and indirectly to companies
    that provide services to those institutions. Many state laws
    require us to provide notification to affected individuals,
    state officers and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a
    security breach of computer databases or physical documents that
    contain certain types of non-public personal information and
    present a risk for unauthorized use.



The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of
    personal information required to provide our services is subject
    to data privacy laws outside of the United States, such as laws
    adopted pursuant to the EU’s 95/46 EC Directive of the
    European Parliament (the “Data Protection Directive”),
    Canada’s Personal Information Protection and Electronic
    Documents Act, individual European national laws and data
    privacy laws of other provinces or countries. In some cases, the
    laws of a country may be more restrictive than the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and the laws developed to comply with
    the Data Protection Directive may impose additional duties on
    companies. Each of these laws may restrict the collection,
    transfer, processing, storage, use and disclosure of sensitive
    personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy
    practices and may give individuals certain rights to prevent the
    use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes
    such as marketing.



These regulations, laws and industry standards also impose
    requirements for safeguarding personal information through the
    issuance of internal data security standards, controls or
    guidelines.





Banking
    Regulation



We have subsidiaries that operate under banking licenses granted
    by the Austrian Financial Market Authority and the Brazilian
    Central Bank which subject these subsidiaries to Austrian and
    Brazilian regulations. We are also subject to regulation,
    examination and supervision by the New York State Banking
    Department (the “Banking Department”), which has
    regulatory authority over our entity that holds all interest in
    these subsidiaries, a limited liability investment company
    organized under Article XII of the New York Banking Law. An
    Agreement of Supervision with the Banking Department imposes
    various regulatory requirements including operational
    limitations, capital requirements, affiliate transaction
    limitations, and notice and reporting requirements. Banking
    Department approval is required under the New York Banking Law
    and the Agreement of Supervision prior to any change in control
    of the Article XII investment company.



Since these subsidiaries do not operate any banking offices in
    the United States and do not conduct business in the United
    States except as may be incidental to their activities outside
    the United States, our Company’s affiliation





with these subsidiaries does not cause them to be subject to the
    provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act in the United States.



Other



Some of our services are subject to card association rules and
    regulations. For example, an independent standards-setting
    organization, the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”)
    Security Standards Council (including American Express, Discover
    Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and
    Visa Inc. International) developed a set of comprehensive
    requirements concerning payment card account security through
    the transaction process, called the Payment Card Industry Data
    Security Standard (“PCI DSS”). All merchants and
    service providers that store, process and transmit payment card
    data are required to comply with PCI DSS as a condition to
    accepting credit cards. We are subject to annual reviews to
    ensure compliance with PCI regulations worldwide and are subject
    to fines if we are found to be non-compliant.



Stored-value services offered by Western Union prepaid services
    are subject to federal and state laws and regulations related to
    consumer protection, licensing, escheat and money laundering.
    These laws are evolving, unclear and sometimes inconsistent, and
    the extent to which these laws apply to Western Union or its
    consumers is in a state of change. We are unable to determine
    the impact that the clarification of these laws and their future
    interpretations may have on these services.



Employees
    and Labor



As of January 31, 2011, our businesses employed
    approximately 7,000 employees, of which
    5,000 employees are located outside of the United States.
    Our United States based employees are not represented by any
    unions or collective bargaining agreements.



Available
    Information



The Western Union Company is a Delaware corporation and its
    principal executive offices are located at 12500 East Belford
    Avenue, Englewood, CO, 80112, telephone(866) 405-5012.The Company’s Annual Report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    through the “Financial Information” portion of the
    Company’s web site, www.westernunion.com, as soon as
    reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC.” The SEC
    maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy
    and information statements, and other information filed
    electronically with the SEC by the Company.



Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



As of February 25, 2011, our executives consist of the
    individuals listed below:



NameAgePositionHikmet Ersek50President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorRobin Heller45Executive Vice President, Operations and ITScott Scheirman48Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerDavid Schlapbach52Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryStewart A. Stockdale49President, The Americas and Executive Vice President, Global
    Cards and Global Key AccountsGrover Wray50Executive Vice President of Human ResourcesDavid G. Yates48Executive Vice President and President, Business Development and
    Innovation





Hikmet Ersekis our President and Chief Executive Officer
    (from September 2010) and a member of the Company’s
    Board of Directors (from April 2010). From January 2010 to
    August 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the Company’s Chief
    Operating Officer. Prior to January 2010, Mr. Ersek served
    as the Company’s Executive Vice President and Managing
    Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific Region
    from December 2008. From September 2006 to December 2008,
    Mr. Ersek served as the Company’s Executive Vice
    President and Managing





Director, Europe/Middle East/Africa/South Asia. Prior to
    September 2006, Mr. Ersek held various positions of
    increasing responsibility with Western Union. Prior to joining
    Western Union in September 1999, Mr. Ersek was with GE
    Capital specializing in European payment systems and consumer
    finance.



Robin Helleris our Executive Vice President, Operations
    and IT. Prior to taking this position in September 2006, she was
    Senior Vice President, Global Operations for First Data since
    November 2004. From July 2003 to November 2004, Ms. Heller
    served in a similar capacity with Western Union. Prior to that
    time, she was Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and
    Operations for Western Union Commercial Services from July 2002
    until June 2003 and Senior Vice President, Operations and Client
    Management for IPS, a First Data subsidiary, from July 2000
    until June 2002. Ms. Heller joined First Data in 1988.



Scott Scheirmanis our Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer. Prior to taking this position in September
    2006, Mr. Scheirman held a variety of positions with
    increasing responsibility at First Data, including Senior Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer for Western Union from
    1999 to September 2006. Prior to joining First Data in 1992,
    Mr. Scheirman was with Ernst & Young LLP.



David Schlapbachis our Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary. Prior to taking these positions in
    September 2006, Mr. Schlapbach held a variety of positions
    at First Data since joining it in 1996, including Deputy General
    Counsel—International, with responsibility for First
    Data’s legal matters outside the United States. In this
    capacity, he worked in First Data’s Paris office for four
    years, returning in 2004 to become General Counsel for Western
    Union. Prior to joining First Data, Mr. Schlapbach was an
    attorney at the law firm of Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin LLP
    in St. Louis, Missouri. Mr. Schlapbach also serves as
    the Chairman of the Board of the Western Union Foundation.
    Mr. Schlapbach left the Company’s General Counsel
    position in May 2010 to become Chief of Staff to the
    Company’s Chief Executive Officer, but returned to the
    General Counsel position in December 2010. Pursuant to a written
    agreement between Mr. Schlapbach and us, he intends to
    resign as General Counsel upon the hiring of his successor and
    plans to resign from the Company thereafter.



Stewart A. Stockdaleis our President, The Americas and
    Executive Vice President, Global Cards and Global Key Accounts.
    Prior to taking this position in January 2010,
    Mr. Stockdale served as our Executive Vice President and
    President, The Americas from November 2008. From June 2008 to
    November 2008, Mr. Stockdale served as Executive Vice
    President and President, United States and Canada, with Western
    Union. Prior to joining Western Union in June 2008,
    Mr. Stockdale served as the President of Simon Brand
    Ventures and as Chief Marketing Officer of Simon Property Group
    since 2002.



Grover Wrayis our Executive Vice President of Human
    Resources. Prior to taking this position in September 2006,
    Mr. Wray joined First Data as Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources for Western Union in October 2005. Prior to joining
    Western Union, from January 2004 to September 2005,
    Mr. Wray was Vice President, Leadership and Professional
    Development and Staffing, for Janus Capital Group. Previously,
    Mr. Wray served as Chief Human Resource Officer, North
    America for Heidrick & Struggles from 2003 to 2004.
    From 1988 to 2003, he held increasingly responsible senior
    management roles at Arthur Andersen LLP, culminating in the role
    of Managing Partner of Human Resources in North America.



David G. Yatesis our Executive Vice President and
    President, Business Development and Innovation. Prior to taking
    this position in December 2010, Mr. Yates was Executive
    Vice President, Alternative Channels from August 2010. Prior to
    joining Western Union in August 2010, Mr. Yates was with
    First Data as Executive Vice President and President of First
    Data’s International Division since September 2007. From
    January 2004 to September 2007, Mr. Yates served as
    president of First Data’s Europe, Middle East and Africa
    division. Prior to joining First Data, Mr. Yates served in
    executive roles with several major international corporations,
    including IBM, General Electric and American Management Systems.





