ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview



The Western Union Company (“Western Union” or the
    “Company”) is a leader in global money transfer and
    payment services, providing people and businesses with fast,
    reliable and convenient ways to send money and make payments
    around the world.



The Western
    Union®brand is globally recognized and represents speed, reliability,
    trust and convenience. As people move and travel around the
    world, they are able to use the services of a well recognized
    brand to transfer funds. Ourconsumer-to-consumermoney transfer service enables people to send money around the
    world in minutes. Our services are available through a network
    of over 410,000 agent locations in more than 200 countries and
    territories, with approximately 85% of those locations outside
    of the United States. Each location in our agent network is
    capable of providing one or more of our services, with the
    majority offering Western Union branded service. As of
    December 31, 2009, over 75% of our locations had
    experienced money transfer activity in the prior 12 months.



Our global business payments service provides consumers and
    businesses with flexible and convenient options for making
    one-time or recurring bill payments. In the third quarter of
    2009, we acquired Custom House, Ltd. (“Custom House”),
    a provider of internationalbusiness-to-businesscross-border, cross-currency payment services. Although most of
    the revenue in our global business payments segment is generated
    in the United States, we continue to expand our international
    presence and globally diversify our revenue, primarily through
    our acquisition of Custom House and our previous acquisition of
    Pago Fácil.



We believe that brand strength, size and reach of our global
    network, and convenience and reliability for our customers have
    been important factors relating to the growth of our business.
    As we continue to meet the needs of our customers for fast,
    reliable and convenient money transfer services, we are also
    working to enhance our services and provide our consumer and
    business clients with access to an expanding portfolio of
    payment and other financial services, including
    Visa®and
    Mastercard®prepaid debit card offerings.



The majority of our revenue comes from fees that consumers pay
    when they send money or make payments. In certain money transfer
    and payment services transactions involving different send and
    receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference
    between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business
    and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire
    currency.



Our
    Segments



We manage our business around the customers we serve and the
    type of services we offer. Each segment addresses a different
    combination of customer needs, distribution networks and
    services. Our segments areconsumer-to-consumerand global business payments. Our other businesses not included
    in these segments primarily consist of Western Union branded
    money order services available through a network of third-party
    agents primarily in the United States and Canada.



The table below presents the components of our consolidated
    revenue:



200920082007Consumer-to-consumer(a)EMEASA (b)45%44%40%Americas (c)32%34%37%APAC (d)8%7%6%Totalconsumer-to-consumer85%85%83%Global business payments14%14%15%Other1%1%2%100%100%100%











(a)The geographic split is determined based upon the region where
    the money transfer is initiated and the region where the money
    transfer is paid. For transactions originated and paid in
    different regions, we split the revenue between the two regions,
    with each region receiving 50%. For money transfers initiated
    and paid in the same region, 100% of the revenue is attributed
    to that region.(b)Represents the Europe, Middle East, Africa and South Asia region
    of ourconsumer-to-consumersegment.(c)Represents the Americas region of ourconsumer-to-consumersegment, which includes North America, Latin America, the
    Caribbean and South America.(d)Represents the Asia Pacific region of ourconsumer-to-consumersegment.



Financial information relating to our international and domestic
    revenues and long-lived assets for all of our segments is set
    forth in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements
    in Item 8.



For additional details regarding ourconsumer-to-consumerand global business payments segments, including financial
    information regarding our international and United States
    operations, see Item 7 of Part II and our financial
    statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere
    in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



See Risk Factors for a discussion of certain risks relating to
    our foreign operations.



Consumer-to-ConsumerSegment



Individual money transfers from one consumer to another are the
    core of our business, representing 85% of our total consolidated
    revenues for 2009. We offer consumers a variety of ways to send
    money. Although most remittances are sent in cash at one of our
    more than 410,000 agent locations worldwide, in some countries
    we offer the ability to send money over the internet or the
    telephone, using a credit or debit card, or through a withdrawal
    directly from a consumer’s bank account. Some agent
    locations accept debit cards to initiate a transaction. We also
    offer consumers several options to receive a money transfer.
    While the vast majority of transfers are paid in cash at agent
    locations, in some places we offer payout directly to the
    receiver’s bank account, to a stored-value card, to a
    mobile phone or through the issuance of a money order.



Operations



Our revenue is derived primarily from transaction fees charged
    to consumers to transfer money. In money transfers involving
    different send and receive currencies, we also generate revenue
    based on the difference between the exchange rate set by Western
    Union to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are
    able to acquire currency.



In a typical money transfer transaction, a consumer goes to one
    of our agent locations, completes a form specifying, among other
    things, the name and address of the recipient, and delivers it,
    along with the principal amount of the money transfer and the
    fee, to the agent. This sending agent enters the transaction
    information into our money transfer system and the funds are
    made available for payment, usually within minutes. The
    recipient enters an agent location in the designated receiving
    area or country, presents identification and is paid the
    transferred amount. Recipients do not pay a fee (although in
    limited circumstances, a tax may be imposed on the payment of
    the remittance). We determine the fee paid by the sender, which
    generally is based on the principal amount of the transaction
    and the locations to and from which the funds are sent and are
    to be transferred.



We generally pay our agents a commission based on a percentage
    of revenue. The commission is shared between the agent that
    initiated the transaction, the “send agent,” and the
    agent that paid the transaction, the “receive agent.”
    For most agents, the costs of providing the physical
    infrastructure and staff are typically covered by the
    agent’s primary business (e.g., postal services, banking,
    check cashing, travel and retail businesses), making the
    economics of being a Western Union agent attractive to our
    agents. Western Union’s global reach and loyal consumer
    base allow us to attract agents we believe to be of high quality.





To complement the convenience offered by our network’s
    global physical locations, in certain countries we have also
    made our services available through other channels, as described
    below under “Services.”



Over 85% of ourconsumer-to-consumertransactions involve at least onenon-UnitedStates location. No individual country outside the United States
    accounted for more than approximately 6%, 7% and 7% of our
    consolidated revenue for the years ended December 31, 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Certain of our agents facilitate a
    large number of transactions; however, no individual agent
    accounted for greater than 10% of the segment’s revenue
    during these periods.



Services



We offer money transfer services worldwide. In 2009, over 95% of
    ourconsumer-to-consumertransactions were cash money transfers involving our walk-in
    agent locations around the world. Although demand for in-person,
    cash money transfers has historically been the strongest, we
    offer a number of options for sending and receiving funds that
    provide consumer convenience and choice to meet the needs of
    consumers. The different ways consumers can send or receive
    money include the following:



Walk-in money transfer service.The majority of our
    remittances constitute transactions in which cash is collected
    by the agent and payment (usually cash) is available forpick-upat
    another agent location in the designated receive location,
    usually within minutes. In some United States outbound corridors
    and in select international corridors, we provide a “Direct
    to Bank” service, enabling a consumer to send a transaction
    from an agent location directly to a bank account in another
    country. We also provide a “Cash to Card” service that
    provides consumers an option to direct funds to a Western Union
    branded Visa stored-value card in the United States, with the
    option to have the card delivered overnight to consumers’
    homes.



Our “Next Day” delivery option is a money transfer
    that is available for payment the morning after the money
    transfer is sent. This option is available in certain markets
    for domestic service within the United States, and in
    select United States outbound and international corridors. The
    Next Day delivery service gives our consumers a lower-priced
    option for money transfers that do not need to be received
    within minutes, while still offering the convenience,
    reliability andease-of-usethat our consumers expect.



Online money transfer service.Our websites allow
    consumers to send funds on-line, using a credit or debit card,
    for payment at most Western Union branded agent locations around
    the world. As of December 31, 2009, we are now providing
    send service in 18 countries, allowing consumers in these
    countries to send money throughout the world.



Telephone money transfer service.Our Telephone
    Money Transfer service allows Western Union consumers to send
    funds by telephone without visiting an agent location. Consumers
    call a toll-free number in the United States, Canada, Ireland or
    the United Kingdom and use a debit card or credit card to
    initiate a transaction. The money transfer is then available for
    pay-out at an agent location.



Account to cash.This service allows consumers to debit
    their bank accounts and send the money through Western Union for
    pay-out at an agent location. We have 12 banks offering this
    service, primarily through their online portals, which allows
    consumers to send funds from their bank accounts.



Mobile money transfer service.Our mobile money transfer
    service pilot provides consumers in a number of select countries
    with the ability to transfer money to a mobile phone. As of
    December 31, 2009, there were approximately
    10,000 Western Union agent locations enabled with the
    technology to transfer cash to a mobile phone.



Distribution
    and Marketing Channels



We offer ourconsumer-to-consumerservice to millions of consumers around the world primarily
    through our global network of third-party agents in almost every
    country and territory, with more than 85% of our agent locations
    being located outside of the United States. Our agents
    facilitate the global distribution and convenience associated
    with our Western Union and other brands, which in turn helps
    create demand for our services and helps us to recruit and
    retain agents. Western Union agents include large networks such
    as post offices, banks and retailers and other established
    organizations that provide other consumer products and





services. Many of our agents have multiple locations. Our agents
    know the markets they serve and work with our management to
    develop business plans for their markets. Many of our agents
    contribute financial resources, or otherwise support, our
    efforts to market the business. Many agents operate in locations
    that are convenient for our consumers and are open outside of
    traditional banking hours, for example on nights and weekends.
    Our top 40 agents globally have been with us an average of
    approximately 13 years, and in 2009, these long-standing
    agents were involved in transactions that generated more than
    60% of ourconsumer-to-consumerrevenue.



We provide our third-party agents with our multi-currency,
    real-time money transfer processing systems used to originate
    and pay money transfers. Over the last several years, we have
    emphasized the development of our receive network around the
    world to optimize send and receive corridors. Our systems and
    processes enable our agents to pay money transfers in more than
    120 currencies worldwide. Many of our agents can pay in multiple
    currencies at a single location. Our agents provide the physical
    infrastructure and staff required to complete the transfers.
    Western Union provides central operating functions such as
    transaction processing, settlement, marketing support and
    customer relationship management to our agents.



Some of our agents outside the United States manage subagents.
    We refer to these agents as superagents. As of December 31,
    2009, we had approximately 800 superagents located throughout
    the world. Although our subagents are under contract with these
    superagents (and not with Western Union directly), the subagent
    locations typically have access to the same technology and
    services that our other agent locations do. On November 1,
    2009, the Payment Services Directive (“PSD”) became
    effective. Under the PSD, the licensing and other legal
    requirements for offering money transfer and other payment
    services within European Union (“EU”) countries were
    harmonized, allowing us to expand the types of businesses that
    can offer money transfer services in certain countries, which
    further allows us to develop our distribution network. In
    anticipation of the PSD, we acquired the money transfer business
    of European-based FEXCO, which helped provide an initial
    operating infrastructure for the PSD and allowed us to take on
    services and operations previously performed by this superagent
    in several key European countries.



Our international agents often customize services as appropriate
    for their geographic markets. In some markets, individual agents
    are independently offering specific services such as
    stored-value card payout options and Direct to Bank service. Our
    marketing benefits from feedback from our agents and consumers,
    and in many of our markets, our agents fund their own marketing
    activities.



A primary component of our marketing strategy is our global
    loyalty program, which is available in a growing number of
    countries. We launched our Western Union Gold Card, the
    principal vehicle of the program, in the United States in 2002.
    As of December 31, 2009, the Gold Card program was
    available in 78 countries and had approximately 13 million
    active cards, an increase in the number of active cards of 20%
    from December 31, 2008. The Gold Card offers consumers
    faster service at thepoint-of-saleand other benefits which, depending on the country, could
    include service fee reductions on future Western Union branded
    transactions, discounts at retailers or a rechargeable prepaid
    phone card embedded within the Gold Card. Overall, Gold Card
    consumers initiate more transactions and have a higher rate of
    retention than non-carded consumers. Approximately one-third of
    Western Union brandedconsumer-to-consumertransactions are initiated using a Gold Card. The global Gold
    Card program is one component of our consumer relationship
    management strategy designed to support and enhance long-term
    relationships with our consumers. Consumer databases supplement
    these efforts by providing insight on consumer preferences so
    that we can selectively target consumer communications and
    marketing. We have begun offering reloadable debit Gold Cards to
    our loyalty card holders in the United States.



Industry
    Trends



Over the last several years, except for 2009, the cross-border
    money transfer industry has experienced growth. Trends in the
    cross-border money transfer business tend to correlate to
    migration trends, global economic opportunity and related
    employment rates worldwide. The top four inbound remittance
    countries in the world are India, China, Mexico and the
    Philippines, and cumulatively receive an estimated
    $136 billion annually according to The World Bank’s
    November 2009 report. Due to the weak global economy, including

6.1




declines in consumer confidence and rising unemployment, the
    demand for money transfers has softened. The World Bank projects
    a modest increase of 1% in cross-border remittances in 2010,
    with stronger growth in 2011. We anticipate that the remittance
    market will begin to recover as the global economy improves. We
    also consider additional sources, including demographic data,
    when assessing market opportunities.



Another significant trend impacting the money transfer industry
    is the increase in regulation in recent years. Regulation in the
    United States and elsewhere focuses, in part, on anti-money
    laundering and anti-terrorist activities. Regulations require
    money transfer providers, banks and other financial institutions
    to develop systems to detect, monitor and report certain
    transactions.



Competition



We face robust competition in the highly-fragmentedconsumer-to-consumermoney transfer industry. We compete with a variety of money
    transfer service providers, including:



•Global money transfer providers—Global money
    transfer providers allow consumers to send money to a wide
    variety of locations, in both their home countries and abroad.•Regional money transfer providers—Regional money
    transfer providers, or “niche” players, provide the
    same services as global money transfer providers, but focus on a
    small group of corridors or services within one region, such as
    North America to the Caribbean, Central or South America, or
    Western Europe to North Africa.•Banks and postbanks—Banks and postbanks of all sizes
    compete with us in a number of ways, including bank wire
    services and card-based services. We believe that banks and
    postbanks offer consumers wire transfer services and other money
    transfer methods as an incentive to those consumers to purchase
    other services and products.•Informal networks—Informal networks enable people to
    transfer funds without formal mechanisms and often without
    compliance with government reporting requirements. We believe
    that such networks comprise a significant share of the market.•Electronic commerce—Online money transfer services
    allow consumers to send and receive money electronically using
    the internet.•Alternative channels—Alternative channels for
    sending and receiving money include mail and commercial courier
    services, money transfers using mobile phones, and card-based
    options, such as ATM cards and stored-value cards.



We believe the most significant competitive factors inconsumer-to-consumerremittances relate to brand recognition, trust and reliability,
    distribution network, consumer experience and price.



Global
    Business Payments Segment



In our global business payments segment, we provide fast and
    convenient options to make one-time or recurring payments for
    consumers or businesses to other businesses. Our business
    payments services allow consumers to make payments to a variety
    of organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies,
    mortgage servicers, financial service providers, governmental
    agencies and other businesses. We also provide internationalbusiness-to-businesscross-border, cross-currency payment services as a result of our
    acquisition of Custom House in September 2009. We can process
    payments using the customer’s credit card, debit card, bank
    account or cash depending on the service selected. We believe
    our business customers who receive payments from consumers
    benefit from their relationship with Western Union as it
    provides them with real-time or near real-time posting of their
    customer payments. In certain circumstances, our relationships
    with business customers also provide them with an additional
    source of income, as well as reduced expenses for cash and check
    handling.





Operations



Our revenue in this segment is derived primarily from
    transaction fees paid by the consumer. These fees are typically
    less than the fees charged in ourconsumer-to-consumersegment. Consumers may make a cash payment at an agent or owned
    location and businesses may remit a check, electronic or wire
    transfer to Custom
    House®in order to initiate a transaction. In order to make an
    electronic payment, consumers or businesses initiate a
    transaction over the telephone or the internet which we process
    through credit card, debit card, automated clearing house
    (“ACH”) or wire transfer, depending on the service
    selected. Our internet services are provided through our own
    websites or, in certain circumstances, in partnership with other
    websites for which we act as the service provider. In
    cross-border transactions involving different currencies, we
    primarily generate revenue based on the difference between the
    exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate
    at which we are able to acquire currency. In addition, we
    generate revenue from upfront enrollment fees received for our
    Equity
    Accelerator®service, and we earn investment income on funds received from
    services sold in advance of settlement with payment recipients.



Although most of the revenue in our global business payments
    segment is generated in the United States, we continue to expand
    our international presence and globally diversify our revenue,
    primarily through our acquisition of Custom House and our
    previous acquisition of Pago
    Fácil..



Services



Our global business payments services are available through a
    variety of products which give customers choices as to the
    payment channel and method of payment, and include the following:



Custom House.Our recent acquisition of Custom House
    enables us to offer international cross-border, cross-currencybusiness-to-businesspayment solutions. These payment transactions are conducted
    through various channels including the telephone and internet.
    Custom House operates its own website to offer services and also
    serves as the ultimate service provider for other partner
    websites. Payments are made predominately through wire transfers
    and ACH, but in some situations, checks are remitted to Custom
    House. The majority of Custom House’s business relates to
    exchanges of currency at the spot rate which enables customers
    to make cross-currency payments. In addition, we write foreign
    currency forward and option contracts for customers to
    facilitate future payments.



Western Union Quick
    Collect®.

    The Western Union Quick Collect (“Quick Collect”)
    service allows consumers to send funds to businesses and
    government agencies across the United States and Canada, using
    cash and, in certain locations, a debit card. This service is
    offered primarily at Western Union agent locations, but may be
    provided via our westernunion.com website in limited situations.
    This service is also offered in select international locations
    under the service mark Quick
    Paysm.

    We also offer Quick
    Cash®,

    a cash disbursement service used by businesses and government
    agencies to send money to employees or individuals with whom
    they have accounts or other business relationships. Similar to
    our Quick Collect service, consumers use our Western Union
    Convenience
    Pay®(“Convenience Pay”) service to send payments by cash
    or check from a smaller number of Convenience Pay agent
    locations primarily to utilities and telecommunication providers.



Pago
    Fácil®.In South America, we offer walk-in, cash bill payment services
    which allow consumers to make payments for services such as
    phone, utilities and other recurring bills. In Argentina, we
    provide this service under the Pago Fácil brand. In 2008,
    we began offering this service under the Western Union brand in
    Peru and Panama.



Speedpay®.

    Our Speedpay service is offered principally in the United States
    and allows consumers to make payments to a variety of businesses
    using credit cards, debit cards, ACH and in limited situations,
    checks. Payments are initiated over the telephone or the
    internet. We also partner with some businesses to allow their
    customers to access Speedpay from their websites.



Equity Accelerator.Our Equity Accelerator service
    enables consumers to make mortgage payments by ACH. It is
    marketed as a convenient way for homeowners to schedule
    additional recurring principal payments on their mortgages.
    Consumers who enroll in this service make mortgage payments
    based on an accelerated





program, which results in a more rapid reduction of their
    mortgage balance, as well as interest savings. We also offer a
    non-recurring mortgage payment service under the brand Just in
    Time
    EFT®.



Distribution
    and Marketing Channels



Our electronic consumer payment services are available primarily
    through the telephone and the internet, while our cash-based
    consumer services are available through our agent networks and
    select Company owned locations. Our business payment services
    are offered through owned locations, telephone, via the internet
    and partner channels.



Businesses market our services to consumers in a number of ways,
    and we market our services directly to consumers and businesses
    using a variety of means, including advertising materials,
    promotional activities, call campaigns and attendance at trade
    shows and seminars. Our internet services are marketed to
    consumers and businesses on our websites as well as through
    co-branding arrangements with our website partners who offer our
    payment solutions. Consumers can also participate in the Western
    Union Gold Card program when using our Quick Collect service.



We have relationships with more than 6,300 businesses to which
    our consumers can make payments, approximately 2,200 of which
    primarily relate to our bill payment business in Argentina, Pago
    Fácil. These relationships are a core component of our
    global business payments services. In 2009, our top 20
    businesses to which our consumers can make payments represented
    approximately 40% of our global business payments revenue. On
    average, we have provided our payment services to our top 20
    businesses to which our consumers can make payments for more
    than 14 years. No individual customer accounted for greater
    than 10% of this segment’s revenue during all periods
    presented.



Our growth strategy includes a focus on expanding and
    globalizing our global business payments segment and increasing
    our number of payment options.



Industry
    Trends



The global business payments industry has evolved with
    technological innovations that have created new methods of
    processing payments from individuals or businesses to other
    businesses. The cross-border payments industry is expected to
    expand considerably in the future due to the expanding global
    focus of many businesses. We believe that the United States is
    in the midst of a trend away from cash and paper checks toward
    electronic payment methods accessible through multiple
    technologies. Furthermore, due to the weak economic situation in
    the United States, we believe many United States consumers who
    would use our services are having difficulty paying their bills
    and are unable to obtain credit, resulting in our handling fewer
    bill payments.



The global business payments industry outside the United States
    is at varying stages of development. In some countries, walk-in
    cash payments or payments through a third-party network are
    widely used, while in other countries electronic payment
    options, particularly through direct debit, are widely accepted.



Competition



Western Union competes with a diverse set of service providers
    offering both cash and electronic-based payment solutions andbusiness-to-businesspayment services. Competition in electronic payments andbusiness-to-businesspayment services include financial institutions (which may offer
    consumer bill payment or business payment services in their own
    name or may “host” payment services operated under the
    names of their clients). Competition for electronic payments
    also includes businesses offering their own or third-party
    services to their own customers and third-party providers of all
    sizes offering services directly to consumers. In many cases,
    competitors specialize in a small number of industries.
    Competitors for cash payments include businesses that allow
    consumers to pay a bill at one of their locations, or at the
    location of a partner business, as well as mail and courier
    services. Competitive pressures are impacting this business.





The most significant competitive factors in this segment relate
    to brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability,
    convenience, speed, variety of payment methods, service
    offerings and price.



For additional details regarding our global business payments
    segment, see Item 7 of Part II and our historical
    financial statements and the notes to those statements included
    elsewhere in this Annual Report onForm 10-K.



Other



Our remaining businesses are grouped in the “Other”
    category, which primarily includes our money order services.





Intellectual
    Property



The Western Union brand, consisting of trademark registrations
    in many countries, is material to our Company. The international
    expansion of our agent network over the past decade has taken
    the Western Union brand nearly everywhere consumers send and
    receive money. The loss of the Western Union trademark or a
    diminution in the perceived quality associated with the name
    would harm our growth. We offer money transfer services under
    the Western Union, Orlandi
    Valuta®or
    Vigosmbrands in over 200 countries and territories, and various global
    business payment services under several brands like Speedpay,
    Equity Accelerator, Just in Time EFT,
    Paymap®,

    Quick Collect, Convenience Pay, Quick Pay, Quick Cash, Pago
    Fácil (registered in Argentina), Custom House and other
    trademarks and service marks also important to our Company.



Our operating results over the past several years have allowed
    us to invest significantly each year to support our brands. In
    2009, we invested approximately $240 million to market,
    advertise and promote our brand and services, including costs
    related to our global “yes!” marketing campaign, which
    helped drive uniformity of brand image and marketing. Many of
    our agents have also contributed significant financial resources
    to assist with marketing our services.



We own patents and patent applications covering various aspects
    of our processes and services. We have been, are and in the
    future may be, subject to claims and suits alleging that our
    technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others,
    both in and out of the United States. Unfavorable resolution of
    these claims could require us to change how we deliver services,
    result in significant financial consequences, or both, which
    could adversely affect our business, financial position and
    results of operations.





Risk
    Management



Our Company has a credit risk management department that
    evaluates and monitors our agent-related credit and fraud risks.
    We are exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances
    from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and
    money order settlement process. We also are exposed to credit
    risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through
    our online services and electronic global business payment
    channels, where transactions are originated through means other
    than cash, and may therefore be subject to
    “chargebacks,” insufficient funds or other collection
    impediments, such as fraud. Our credit risk management team
    performs a credit review before each agent signing and conducts
    periodic analyses. As a result, our losses associated with bad
    debts have been less than 1% of our annual revenue in each of
    the last three fiscal years. However, the recent global economic
    crisis may increase our losses associated with bad debts.



A key component of the Western Union business model is our
    ability to manage financial risk associated with conducting
    transactions worldwide. We settle accounts with the majority of
    our agents in United States dollars or euros. We utilize foreign
    currency exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts, to
    mitigate the risks associated with currency fluctuations and to
    provide predictability of future cash flows. Limited foreign
    currency risk arises with respect to the agent settlement
    process. The foreign currency exchange risk is limited because
    the majority of money transfer transactions are paid within
    24 hours after they are initiated and agent settlements
    occur within a few days in most instances.



As a result of our acquisition of Custom House, we are now
    exposed to credit risk relating to derivative financial
    instruments written by us to our customers. The duration of
    these derivative contracts is generally nine months or less. To
    mitigate risk, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an
    ongoing basis. In addition, we may require certain customers to
    post collateral based on the fair value of the customer’s
    contract and their risk profile. As we require the receipt of
    funds from our customers, in most cases, before releasing the
    associated cross-currency payment, the credit risk arising from
    our spot foreign currency exchange contracts is largely
    mitigated.



To manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to
    investment securities, money market fund investments and other
    credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with
    banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment
    concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit
    ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among
    global financial institutions.



Our financial results may fluctuate due to changes in interest
    rates. We review our overall exposure to floating and fixed
    rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each,
    while also considering the duration of the individual positions.
    We manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an
    attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and optimize returns. Our
    exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix
    of our interest bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of
    fixed versus floating rate debt. The latter is accomplished
    primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the terms
    of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). We use
    interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the
    percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions.



International
    Investment



We have accumulated approximately $2.0 billion of foreign
    earnings at December 31, 2009, for which no provision has
    been made for United States federal and state income taxes, as
    we have reinvested or expect to reinvest these earnings outside
    the United States indefinitely. We intend to invest these
    earnings to expand and diversify our global distribution and
    explore new service offerings. In 2009, we used our foreign
    earnings to acquire the money transfer business of our largest
    European-based agent, FEXCO, and also to acquire Custom House,
    which expanded the service offerings of the global business
    payments segment to include cross-currency, cross-borderbusiness-to-businesspayments. We continue to look for opportunities for
    international acquisitions and investments in joint ventures
    that will complement our existing businesses worldwide. We may
    also invest in expanding our current service offerings or our
    international operating sites to drive organic growth. However,
    if we are unable to utilize these earnings outside of the United
    States and we repatriate these earnings to the United States in
    the form of actual or constructive dividends, we would be
    subject to





United States federal income taxes (subject to an
    adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes and
    possible withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries.



Regulation



and/or

and/or



We have developed and continue to enhance global compliance
    programs, consisting of an anti-money laundering program
    comprised of policies, procedures, systems and internal controls
    to monitor and to address various legal and regulatory
    requirements. In addition, we continue to adapt our business
    practices and strategies to help us comply with current and
    evolving legal standards and industry practices. These programs
    include dedicated compliance personnel, training and monitoring
    programs, suspicious activity reporting, regulatory outreach and
    education, and support and guidance to our agent network on
    regulatory compliance. Our money transfer network operates
    through third-party agents in most countries, and, therefore,
    our legal and practical ability to control those agents’
    compliance activities is limited. With the PSD coming into
    effect, we will become responsible for the compliance of our
    agents in the EU who are engaged by one of our payments
    institution subsidiaries. In addition, with the acquisition of
    Custom House, our regulatory requirements have increased.



Money
    Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing and
    Regulation



In the United States, most states license money transfer
    services providers. Many states exercise authority over the
    operations of our money transfer services and, as part of this
    authority, regularly examine us. Many states require us to
    invest the proceeds of money transfers in high-quality,
    investment grade securities, and our use of such investments is
    restricted to satisfy outstanding settlement obligations. We
    regularly monitor credit risk and attempt to mitigate our
    exposure by making high-quality investments in compliance with
    these regulations. The majority of our investment securities,
    classified within “settlement assets” in the
    consolidated balance sheets, most of which relate to state
    licensing requirements in the United States, had credit ratings
    of “AA-” or better from a major credit rating agency
    as of December 31, 2009.



These licensing laws also cover matters such as government
    approval of controlling shareholders and senior management of
    our licensed entities, regulatory approval of agent locations,
    consumer disclosures and the filing of periodic reports by the
    licensee, and require the licensee to demonstrate and maintain
    certain net worth levels. Many states also require money
    transmitters and their agents to comply with federaland/orstate
    anti-money laundering laws and regulations.



Our money transfer and money order services are subject to
    anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank
    Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001
    (collectively, the “BSA”) and similar state laws and
    regulations. The BSA, among other things, requires money
    transfer companies and the issuers and sellers of money orders,
    to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering
    programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious
    activity, and in some cases, to collect and maintain information
    about consumers who use their services and maintain other
    transaction records. Many states impose similar





and, in some cases, more stringent requirements. These
    requirements also apply to our agents. In addition, the United
    States Department of the Treasury has interpreted the BSA to
    require money transfer companies to conduct due diligence into
    and risk-based monitoring of their agents inside and outside the
    United States.



Economic and trade sanctions programs administered by the United
    States Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets
    Control (“OFAC”) prohibit or restrict transactions to
    or from (or dealings with) certain countries, their governments,
    and in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with
    specifically-designated individuals and entities such as
    narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations.
    We provide very limitedconsumer-to-consumerservices to individuals in Cuba, Syria and Sudan pursuant to and
    as authorized by advisory opinions of, or licenses granted by,
    OFAC.



Outside of the United States, our money transfer business is
    subject to some form of regulation in all of the countries and
    territories in which we offer those services. These laws and
    regulations may include limitations on what types of entities
    may offer money transfer services, limitations on the amount of
    principal that can be sent into or out of a country, limitations
    on the number of money transfers that may be sent or received by
    a consumer and agreements on the rates of exchange between
    currencies. They may also include laws and regulations intended
    to help detect and prevent money laundering or terrorist
    financing. In most countries, our agents are required to obtain
    licenses or permits to offer money transfer services.





Government agencies both inside and outside the United States
    may impose new or additional rules on money transfers affecting
    us or our agents, including regulations that:



•prohibit transactions in, to or from certain countries,
    governments and individuals and entities;•impose additional identification, reporting or recordkeeping
    requirements;•limit the entities capable of providing money transfer services
    or impose additional licensing or registration requirements;•impose minimum capital or other financial requirements on us or
    our agents;•limit or restrict the revenue which may be generated from money
    transfers, including transaction fees and revenue derived from
    foreign exchange;•require additional disclosures to consumers;•require the principal amount of money transfers originated in a
    country to be invested in that country or held in trust until
    they are paid; or•limit the number or principal amount of money transfers which
    may be sent to or from the jurisdiction, whether by an
    individual, through one agent or in aggregate.



One example of such a rule is the Payment Services Directive
    which became effective on November 1, 2009. The PSD has
    changed the payments market in the EU, harmonizing the licensing
    and certain other





requirements for offering payment services within the EU.
    Previously, those requirements differed significantly among
    these countries. The PSD also imposed new rules on payment
    service providers like Western Union. In particular, the PSD
    makes us responsible for the compliance of our agents in the EU
    who are engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries.
    Thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against us because
    of the actions of our EU agents and their subagents has
    increased. Under the PSD, we are now subject to investment
    safeguarding rules and periodic examinations similar to those we
    are subject to in the United States. These rules have resulted
    in increased costs to comply with the new requirements. The PSD
    could also increase competition in our areas of service.



Escheat
    Regulations



Our Company is subject to unclaimed or abandoned property
    (escheat) laws in the United States and abroad. These laws
    require us to turn over to certain government authorities the
    property of others held by our Company that has been unclaimed
    for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers.
    We hold property subject to escheat laws and we have an ongoing
    program to comply with the laws. We are subject to audits with
    regard to our escheatment practices.



Privacy
    and Information Security Regulations



The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of
    personal information is required to provide our services. These
    activities are subject to information security standards, data
    privacy, data breach and related laws and regulations in the
    United States and other countries. In the United States, data
    privacy and data breach laws such as the federal
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and various state laws apply directly to
    a broad range of financial institutions including money
    transmitters like Western Union, and indirectly to companies
    that provide services to those institutions. Many state laws
    require us to provide notification to affected individuals,
    state officers and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a
    security breach of computer databases or physical documents that
    contain certain types ofnon-publicpersonal information and present a risk for unauthorized use.



The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of
    personal information required to provide our services is subject
    to data privacy laws outside of the United States, such as laws
    adopted pursuant to the EU’s 95/46 EC Directive of the
    European Parliament (the “Data Protection Directive”),
    Canada’s Personal Information Protection and Electronic
    Documents Act, individual European national laws and data
    privacy laws of other provinces or countries. In some cases, the
    laws of a country may be more restrictive than the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act or the laws developed to comply with the
    Data Protection Directive may impose additional duties on
    companies. Each of these laws may restrict the collection,
    transfer, processing, storage, use and disclosure of sensitive
    personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy
    practices and may give individuals certain rights to prevent the
    use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes
    such as marketing.



These regulations, laws and industry standards also impose
    requirements for safeguarding personal information through the
    issuance of internal data security standards, controls or
    guidelines.



In connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the
    prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and
    pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, Western Union
    makes information available to certain United States federal and
    state, as well as certain foreign government agencies when
    required by law. In recent years, these agencies have increased
    their requests for such information from Western Union and other
    companies (both financial service providers and others),
    particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist
    financing or identity theft. During the same period, there has
    also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use
    and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by
    legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data
    protection, information security and consumer privacy. These
    regulatory goals—the prevention of money laundering,
    terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the
    individual’s right to privacy—may create a conflict,
    and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While
    we believe that Western Union is compliant with its regulatory
    responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments
    in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation,
    regulation, litigation, court





rulings or other events could expose Western Union to increased
    program costs, liability and reputational damage.



Banking
    Regulation



Western Union International Bank operates under a banking
    license granted by the Austrian Financial Market Authority
    (“FMA”), allowing the bank to offer a range of
    financial services in the 27 member states of the EU and the 3
    additional states of the European Economic Area. The banking
    license subjects our bank to the Austrian Banking Act regulation
    by the FMA and the Austrian National Bank. The bank also is
    subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the New
    York State Banking Department (the “Banking
    Department”), which has regulatory authority over our
    subsidiary that holds all interest in the bank, a limited
    liability investment company organized under Article XII of
    the New York Banking Law. An Agreement of Supervision with the
    Banking Department imposes various regulatory requirements
    including operational limitations, capital requirements,
    affiliate transaction limitations, and notice and reporting
    requirements. Banking Department approval is required under the
    New York Banking Law and the Agreement of Supervision prior to
    any change in control of the Article XII investment company.



Since Western Union International Bank does not operate any
    banking offices in the United States and does not conduct
    business in the United States except as may be incidental to its
    activities outside the United States, our Company’s
    affiliation with Western Union International Bank does not cause
    it to be subject to the provisions of the Bank Holding Company
    Act.



In Brazil, we have submitted applications to the Central Bank of
    Brazil for commercial bank and exchange broker licenses. Such
    licenses will enable us to engage in financial services which we
    are unable to provide today, including domestic money transfer
    and bill payments.



Other



Some of our services are subject to card association rules and
    regulations. For example, an independent standards-setting
    organization, the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”)
    Security Standards Council (including American Express, Discover
    Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and
    Visa Inc. International) developed a set of comprehensive
    requirements concerning payment card account security through
    the transaction process, called the Payment Card Industry Data
    Security Standard (“PCI DSS”). All merchants and
    service providers that store, process and transmit payment card
    data are required to comply with PCI DSS as a condition to
    accepting credit cards. We are subject to annual reviews to
    ensure compliance with PCI regulations worldwide and are subject
    to fines if we are found to be non-compliant.



Stored-value services offered by Western Union prepaid services
    are subject to federal and state laws and regulations related to
    consumer protection, licensing, escheat and money laundering.
    These laws are evolving, unclear and sometimes inconsistent, and
    the extent to which these laws apply to Western Union or its
    consumers is in a state of change. We are unable to determine
    the impact that the clarification of these laws and their future
    interpretations may have on these services.



Employees
    and Labor



As of January 31, 2010, our businesses employed
    approximately 6,800 employees. Our United States based
    employees are no longer represented by any unions or collective
    bargaining agreements.



Available
    Information



The Western Union Company is a Delaware corporation and its
    principal executive offices are located at 12500 East Belford
    Avenue, Englewood, CO, 80112, telephone(866) 405-5012.The Company’s Annual Report onForm 10-K,quarterly reports onForm 10-Q,current reports onForm 8-K,and amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    through the “Financial Information” portion of the
    Company’s web site, www.westernunion.com, as soon as
    reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC.” The SEC
    maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy
    and information statements, and other information filed
    electronically with the SEC by the Company.





Executive
    Officers of the Registrant



As of February 26, 2010, our executives consist of the
    individuals listed below:



NameAgePositionChristina A. Gold62President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorGuy A. Battista61Executive Vice President and President of Western Union
    Financial Services, Inc.Ranjana Clark49President, Global Business Payments and Executive Vice
    President, Head of Global StrategyHikmet Ersek49Chief Operating OfficerGail Galuppo46Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing OfficerRobin Heller44Executive Vice President, Operations and ITAnne McCarthy50Executive Vice President of Communications and Corporate AffairsScott Scheirman47Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerDavid Schlapbach51Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryStewart Stockdale48President, The Americas and Executive Vice President, Global
    Cards and Global Key AccountsGrover Wray49Executive Vice President of Human Resources





Christina A. Goldis our President, Chief Executive
    Officer and one of our directors. Prior to taking these
    positions in September 2006, she was a Senior Executive Vice
    President of First Data and President of Western Union since May
    2002. From October 1999 to May 2002, she was Chairman, President
    and Chief Executive Officer of Excel Communications, Inc.
    Ms. Gold served as President and Chief Executive Officer of
    The Beaconsfield Group from March 1998 to October 1999. In 1970,
    she joined Avon Products, Inc., serving as President of Avon
    Canada from 1989 to 1993, President of Avon North America from
    1993 to 1997 and Executive Vice President of Global Development
    from 1997 to 1998. Ms. Gold is a Director of ITT
    Corporation and New York Life Insurance Company.



Guy A. Battistais our Executive Vice President and
    President of Western Union Financial Services, Inc. Prior to
    taking this position in September 2006, he was an Executive Vice
    President and Chief Information Officer of First Data since
    March 2001. Mr. Battista joined First Data in 1990.



Ranjana Clarkis our President, Global Business Payments
    and Executive Vice President, Head of Global Strategy. Prior to
    joining Western Union in March 2009, she led the Wholesale
    Customer Experience Group at Wells Fargo & Company
    from January 2009. From April 2007 to December 2008, she served
    as Chief Marketing Officer of Wachovia Corporation. Prior to
    that time, from January 2001 to April 2007, she led the Treasury
    Services Division of Wachovia Corporation.



Hikmet Ersekis our Chief Operating Officer. Prior to
    taking this position in January 2010, Mr. Ersek served as
    the Company’s Executive Vice President and Managing
    Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific Region
    from December 2008. From September 2006 to December 2008,
    Mr. Ersek served as the Company’s Executive Vice
    President and Managing Director, Europe/Middle East/Africa/South
    Asia. Prior to September 2006, Mr. Ersek held various
    positions of increasing responsibility with Western Union. Prior
    to joining Western Union in September 1999, Mr. Ersek was
    with GE Capital specializing in European payment systems and
    consumer finance.



Gail Galuppois our Executive Vice President and Chief
    Marketing Officer. Prior to joining Western Union in September
    2007, Ms. Galuppo was the Chief Marketing and Customer
    Officer of Standard Chartered Bank from August 2006, and the
    Global Head of Credit Cards of Standard Chartered Bank from
    September 2005 to August 2006. From April 2001 to August 2005,
    Ms. Galuppo led brand management, promotional retail
    marketing and product category strategy for Sears, Roebuck and
    Company, most recently serving as its Vice President, Brand and
    Category Strategy.



Robin Helleris our Executive Vice President, Operations
    and IT. Prior to taking this position in September 2006, she was
    Senior Vice President, Global Operations for First Data since
    November 2004. From





July 2003 to November 2004, Ms. Heller served in a similar
    capacity with Western Union. Prior to that time, she was Senior
    Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Operations for Western
    Union Commercial Services from July 2002 until June 2003 and
    Senior Vice President, Operations and Client Management for IPS,
    a First Data subsidiary, from July 2000 until June 2002.
    Ms. Heller joined First Data in 1988.



Anne McCarthyis our Executive Vice President of
    Communications and Corporate Affairs. Prior to joining Western
    Union in March 2007, Ms. McCarthy was the Senior Vice
    President of Global Communications of SAP A.G. starting in
    August 2003. She served as Vice President of Communications for
    the DuPont Company from April 2002 until July 2003.



Scott Scheirmanis our Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer. Prior to taking this position in September
    2006, Mr. Scheirman held a variety of positions with First
    Data, including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer for Western Union from 1999 to September 2006. Prior to
    joining First Data in 1992, Mr. Scheirman was with
    Ernst & Young LLP.



David Schlapbachis our Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary. Prior to taking these positions in
    September 2006, Mr. Schlapbach held a variety of positions
    at First Data since joining it in 1996, including Deputy General
    Counsel—International, with responsibility for First
    Data’s legal matters outside the United States. In this
    capacity, he worked in First Data’s Paris office for four
    years, returning in 2004 to become General Counsel for Western
    Union. Prior to joining First Data, Mr. Schlapbach was an
    attorney at the law firm of Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin LLP
    in St. Louis, Missouri. Mr. Schlapbach also serves as
    the Chairman of the Board of the Western Union Foundation.



Stewart A. Stockdaleis our President, The Americas and
    Executive Vice President, Global Cards and Global Key Accounts.
    Prior to taking this position in January 2010,
    Mr. Stockdale served as our Executive Vice President and
    President, The Americas from November 2008. From June 2008 to
    November 2008, Mr. Stockdale served as Executive Vice
    President and President, United States and Canada, with Western
    Union. Prior to joining Western Union in June 2008,
    Mr. Stockdale served as the President of Simon Brand
    Ventures and as Chief Marketing Officer of Simon Property Group
    since 2002.



Grover Wrayis our Executive Vice President of Human
    Resources. Prior to taking this position in September 2006,
    Mr. Wray joined First Data as Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources for Western Union in October 2005. Prior to joining
    Western Union, from January 2004 to September 2005,
    Mr. Wray was Vice President, Leadership and Professional
    Development and Staffing, for Janus Capital Group. Previously,
    Mr. Wray served as Chief Human Resource Officer, North
    America for Heidrick & Struggles from 2003 to 2004.
    From 1988 to 2003, he held increasingly responsible senior
    management roles at Arthur Andersen LLP, culminating in the role
    of Managing Partner of Human Resources in North America.





