ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



Overview



The Western Union Company (the “Company,” “Western Union,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a leader in global money movement and payment services, providing people and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send money and make payments around the world. The Company was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of First Data Corporation (“First Data”) on February 17, 2006, and on September 29, 2006, First Data distributed all of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a Western Union money transfer agent, as well as its related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to First Data shareholders (“Spin-off”).



The Western Union®brand is globally recognized and represents speed, reliability, trust and convenience. As people move and travel around the world, they are able to use the services of a well-recognized brand to transfer funds. Our Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer service enables people to send money around the world, usually within minutes. As of December 31, 2012, our services were available through a global network of approximately510,000agent locations inmore than 200 countries and territories, withapproximately 90%of those locations outside of the United States. Each location in our agent network is capable of providing one or more of our services, with the majority offering a Western Union branded service. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 70% of our locations had experienced money transfer activity in the previous 12 months.



We also provide consumers with flexible and convenient options for making one-time or recurring payments in our Consumer-to-Business segment. This segment consists of United States bill payments, Pago Fácil (bill payments in Argentina), and international bill payments.



The Business Solutions segment facilitates payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals. The majority of the segment's business relates to exchanges of currency at the spot rate which enables customers to make cross-currency payments. In addition, in certain countries, we write foreign currency forward and option contracts for customers to facilitate future payments. Travelex Global Business Payments (“TGBP”), which we acquired in November 2011, is included in this segment.



We believe that brand strength, size and reach of our global network, convenience, reliability, and value for the price paid for our customers have been important to the growth of our business. As we continue to meet the needs of our customers for fast, reliable and convenient global money movement and payment services, we are also working to enhance our services and provide our consumer and business clients with access to an expanding portfolio of payment and other financial services and to expand the number of channels available to access these services.



Our Segments



We manage our business around the consumers and businesses we serve and the types of services we offer. Each of our three segments addresses a different combination of consumer groups, distribution networks and services offered. Our segments are Consumer-to-Consumer, Consumer-to-Business and Business Solutions. Businesses not considered part of these segments are categorized as “Other” and include our money order, prepaid services, mobile money transfer, and other businesses and services, in addition to costs for the investigation and closing of acquisitions.













The table below presents the components of our consolidated revenue:

Year Ended December 31,201220112010Consumer-to-Consumer81%84%84%Consumer-to-Business11%11%12%Business Solutions6%3%2%Other2%2%2%100%100%100%



No individual country outside the United States accounted for more than approximately 6% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010.



For additional details regarding our Consumer-to-Consumer, Consumer-to-Business and Business Solutions segments, including financial information regarding our international and United States revenues and long-lived assets, see Part II, Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Part II, Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Datain this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



See Risk Factors for a discussion of certain risks relating to our foreign operations.



Consumer-to-Consumer Segment



Individual money transfers from one consumer to another are the core of our business, representing81%of our total consolidated revenues for 2012. We view our money transfer service as one interconnected global network where a money transfer can be sent from one location to another, around the world, including related transactions that can be initiated through our websites and account based money transfers. The segment includes six regions whose functions are limited to generating, managing and maintaining agent relationships and localized marketing activities. These regions interact on transactions with consumers and share common processes, systems and licenses, thereby constituting one global Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer business and one operating segment.



Although most remittances are sent from one of our approximately510,000agent locations worldwide, in some countries we offer the ability to send money over the Internet or phone using a credit or debit card, or through a withdrawal directly from a consumer's bank account. All agent locations accept cash to initiate a transaction, and some also accept debit cards. We offer consumers several options to receive a money transfer. While the vast majority of transfers are paid in cash at agent locations, in some places we offer payout directly to the receiver's bank account, to a stored-value card, or through the issuance of a money order.



Operations



Our revenue in this segment is derived primarily from transaction fees charged to consumers to transfer money. In money transfers involving different send and receive currencies, we also generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire the currency.



In a typical money transfer transaction, a consumer goes to one of our agent locations, completes a form specifying, among other things, the name and address of the recipient, and delivers it, along with the principal amount of the money transfer and the fee, to the agent. Certain of these processes are streamlined for our customers who use our loyalty card. This sending agent enters the transaction information into our money transfer system and the funds are made available for payment, usually within minutes. The recipient enters an agent location in the designated receiving area or country, presents identification, where applicable, and is paid the transferred amount. Recipients generally do not pay a fee. However, in limited circumstances, a tax may be imposed by the local government on the receipt of the money transfer, or a fee may be charged by the receiver's institution related to the use of the account. We determine the fee paid by the sender, which generally is based on the principal amount of the transaction and the send and receive locations.













We generally pay our agents a commission based on a percentage of revenue. A commission is usually paid to both the agent that initiated the transaction, the “send agent,” and the agent that paid the transaction, the “receive agent.” For most agents, the costs of providing the physical infrastructure and staff are typically covered by the agent's primary business (e.g., postal services, banking, check cashing, travel and retail businesses), making the economics of being a Western Union agent attractive. Western Union's global reach and large consumer base allow us to attract agents we believe to be of high quality.



To complement the convenience offered by our network's global physical locations, in certain countries we have also made our services available through other channels, as described below under “Services.”



Over 85% of our Consumer-to-Consumer transactions involve at least one non-United States location. No individual country outside the United States accounted for greater than 7% of this segment's revenue during all periods presented.



Services



We offer money transfer services worldwide. In 2012, the substantial majority of our Consumer-to-Consumer transactions were cash money transfers involving our walk-in agent locations around the world. Although demand for in-person, cash money transfers has historically been the strongest, we offer a number of options for sending and receiving funds that provide consumers convenience and choice. The different ways consumers can send or receive money include the following:



Walk-in and telephone money transfer service.The substantial majority of our remittances constitute transactions in which cash is collected by the agent and payment (usually cash) is available for pick-up at another agent location, usually within minutes. In certain countries, we also offer convenience to our consumers to initiate a transaction through the phone using a debit or credit card or through our account based money transfer service, as described below. We also provide a “Cash to Card” service that provides consumers an option to direct funds to a Western Union branded stored-value card in the United States and in certain other countries.



Our “Next Day” delivery option is a money transfer that is available for payment the morning after the money transfer is sent. This option is available for certain domestic service within the United States, and in select United States outbound and international corridors. The Next Day delivery service gives our consumers a lower-priced option for money transfers that do not need to be received within minutes, while still offering the convenience, reliability and ease of use that our consumers expect.



Online money transfer service.Our websites allow consumers to send funds online, generally using a credit or debit card, for pay-out at most Western Union branded agent locations around the world. As of December 31, 2012, we were providing online money transfer service in more than 20 countries, allowing consumers in these countries to send money throughout the world.



Account based money transfer service.This service allows consumers to access Western Union services electronically, directly from their bank's Internet or automated teller machine (“ATM”) banking service. Consumers can use their bank account to initiate a Western Union money transfer electronically, without having to visit a physical Western Union agent location. Globally, we have relationships with nearly 115 banks that have agreed to offer one or more of our account based money transfer services, primarily through their online banking portals.



Direct to bank.In the United States and in certain other countries, we provide a “Direct to Bank” service, enabling a consumer to send a transaction from an agent location directly to a bank account in certain countries. Additionally, our websites allow consumers to send funds online, generally using a credit or debit card, for pay-out directly to a bank account.



Mobile money transfer service.For further discussion regarding our mobile money transfer service, see the “Other” category in this section.



Money transfer services through electronic channels, which include online, account based, and mobile money transfer, combined were 4% of consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012.













Distribution and Marketing Channels



We offer our Consumer-to-Consumer service to millions of consumers around the world primarily through our global network of third-party agents in almost every country and territory, withapproximately 90%of our agent locations being located outside of the United States. Our agents facilitate the global distribution and convenience associated with our Western Union and other brands (as described further within the “Intellectual Property” section below), which in turn helps create demand for our services and helps us to recruit and retain agents. Western Union agents include large networks such as post offices, banks and retailers and other established organizations that provide other consumer products and services. Many of our agents have multiple locations. Each individual agent accounted for less than 10% of the segment's revenue during all periods presented. Our agents know the markets they serve and work with our management to develop business plans for their markets. Many of our agents contribute financial resources to, or otherwise support, our efforts to market the business. Many agents operate in locations that are open outside of traditional banking hours, for example on nights and weekends. Our top 40 agents globally have been with us an average of approximately 17 years and in 2012, these long-standing agents were involved in transactions that generated approximately 60% of our Consumer-to-Consumer revenue.



We provide our third-party agents with access to our multi-currency, real-time money transfer processing systems used to originate and pay money transfers. We continue to develop our network around the world to optimize send and receive corridors. Our systems and processes enable our agents to pay money transfers in more than 120 currencies worldwide. Certain of our agents can pay in multiple currencies at a single location. Our agents provide the physical infrastructure and staff required to complete the transfers. Western Union provides central operating functions such as transaction processing, settlement, marketing support and customer relationship management to our agents.



Some of our agents outside the United States manage their subagents. We refer to these agents as superagents. Although these subagents are under contract with these superagents (and not with Western Union directly), the subagent locations typically have access to similar technology and services as our other agent locations.



Our international agents often customize services as appropriate for their geographic markets. In some markets, individual agents are independently offering specific services such as stored-value card payout options or Direct to Bank service. We market our services to consumers in a number of ways, directly and indirectly through our agent partners, leveraging advertising promotional activities, grassroots, digital, and loyalty programs. Our marketing benefits from feedback from our agents and consumers.



Our marketing strategy includes our loyalty programs, which are available in a growing number of countries and territories. As of December 31, 2012, our loyalty programs were available in approximately 80 countries and territories and had approximately 19 million active participants. These programs offer customers faster service at the point-of-sale. Additionally, in certain countries and at westernunion.com, these programs offer reduced transaction fees or cash back; however, such redemption activity has been insignificant to the results of our operations. Loyalty customers generally initiate more transactions and have a higher rate of retention than other customers. Over 40% of Western Union branded Consumer-to-Consumer transactions are initiated by our loyalty program participants.



Industry Trends



Over the last several years, except for 2009, the cross-border money transfer industry has experienced growth. Trends in the cross-border money transfer business tend to correlate to migration trends, global economic opportunity and related employment levels worldwide. The top four inbound remittance countries in the world are India, China, Mexico, and the Philippines, which cumulatively receive an estimated $160 billion annually according to Aité Group LLC's (“Aité”) February 2013 report. The February 2013 Aité report projects cross-border remittance growth of 5.8% in 2013.



Another significant trend impacting the money transfer industry is the increase in regulation. Regulation in the United States and elsewhere focuses, in part, on anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist activities and consumer protection. Regulations require money transfer providers, banks and other financial institutions to develop systems to prevent, detect, monitor and report certain transactions. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our business, see the “Regulation” discussion in this section and the “Enhanced Regulatory Compliance” section in Part II, Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, our ability to enter into or maintain exclusive arrangements with our agents has increasingly been challenged by both regulators and certain of our current and prospective agents, especially in certain inbound countries.













Competition



We face robust competition in the highly-fragmented Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer industry. We compete with a variety of remittance providers, including:



•Global money transfer providers-Global money transfer providers allow consumers to send money to a wide variety of locations, in both their home countries and abroad.



•Regional money transfer providers- Regional money transfer providers, or “niche” providers, provide the same services as global money transfer providers, but focus on a smaller group of corridors or services within one region, such as North America to the Caribbean, Central or South America, or Western Europe to North Africa.



•Banks and postbanks- Banks and postbanks of all sizes compete with us in a number of ways, including bank wire services and card-based services.



•Informal networks- Informal networks enable people to transfer funds without formal mechanisms and often without compliance with government reporting requirements. We believe that such networks comprise a significant share of the market.



•Electronic commerce- Online money transfer services allow consumers to send and receive money electronically using the Internet or mobile phones.



•Alternative channels- Alternative channels for sending and receiving money include mail and commercial courier services, and card-based options, such as ATM cards and stored-value cards.



We believe the most significant competitive factors in Consumer-to-Consumer remittances relate to the overall consumer value proposition, including brand recognition, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, and consumer experience and price.



Consumer-to-Business Segment



In our Consumer-to-Business segment, which represented11%of our total consolidated revenues for 2012, we provide fast and convenient options to make one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers, government agencies and other businesses. We believe our business customers who receive payments through our services benefit from their relationship with Western Union as it provides them with real-time or near real-time posting of their customer payments. In many circumstances, our relationships with business customers also provide them with an additional source of income, as well as reduced expenses for cash and check handling.



Operations



Our revenue in this segment is derived primarily from transaction fees paid by the consumer. The consumer payments fees are typically less than the fees charged in our Consumer-to-Consumer segment. Consumers may make a cash payment at an agent or owned location or may make an electronic payment over the phone or on the Internet using their credit or debit card, through the automated clearing house (“ACH”) system, or via a wire transfer. Our Internet services are provided through our own websites or, in certain circumstances, in partnership with other websites for which we act as the service provider. In addition, we generate revenue from upfront enrollment fees received for our Equity Accelerator®service, and we earn investment income on funds received from services sold in advance of settlement with payment recipients.



While we continue to pursue further international expansion of our offerings in this segment, the significant majority of the segment's revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented.













Services



Our Consumer-to-Business payments services are available through a variety of products which give consumers choices as to the payment channel and method of payment, and include the following:



Western Union Payments.The Western Union Payments service allows consumers to send funds to businesses and government agencies, primarily across the United States and Canada, using cash and, in certain locations, a debit card. This service is offered primarily at Western Union agent locations, but may be provided via our westernunion.com website in limited situations. This service is also offered in select international locations under the service mark Quick PaySM. We also offer Quick Cash®, a cash disbursement service used by businesses, government agencies, and financial institutions to send money to employees or individuals with whom they have accounts or other business relationships. Similar to our Western Union Payments service, consumers use our Western Union Convenience Pay®(“Convenience Pay”) service to send payments by cash or check from a smaller number of Convenience Pay agent locations primarily to utilities and telecommunication providers. We are in the process of consolidating all of these services, in addition to our Quick Collect®service, to be marketed as Western Union Payments.



Speedpay®. Our Speedpay service is offered principally in the United States and allows consumers to make payments to a variety of businesses using credit cards, debit cards, ACH and in limited situations, checks. Payments are initiated over the phone or the Internet. We also partner with some businesses to allow their customers to access Speedpay from their websites.



Equity Accelerator.Our Equity Accelerator service enables consumers to make mortgage payments by ACH. It is marketed as a convenient way for homeowners to schedule additional recurring principal payments on their mortgages. Consumers who enroll in this service make mortgage payments based on an accelerated program, which results in a more rapid reduction of their mortgage balance, as well as interest savings.



Pago Fácil®. In South America, we offer walk-in, cash bill payment services which allow consumers to make payments for services such as phone, utilities and other recurring bills. In Argentina, we provide this service under the Pago Fácil brand. We offer this service under the Western Union brand in Peru, Panama and Brazil.



Distribution and Marketing Channels



Our electronic consumer payment services are available primarily through the phone and the Internet, while our cash-based consumer services are available through our agent networks and select Company-owned locations, primarily in South America.



Businesses market our services to consumers in a number of ways, and we market our services directly to consumers using a variety of means, including advertising materials, promotional activities, call campaigns and attendance at trade shows and seminars. Our Internet services are marketed to consumers on our websites as well as through co-branding arrangements with our website partners who offer our payment solutions.



We have relationships withmore than 15,000consumer payments businesses to which our customers can make payments. These relationships are a core component of our global payments services. On average, we have provided our payment services to our top 20 businesses to which our consumers can make payments for more than 15 years. No individual consumer or business accounted for greater than 10% of this segment's revenue during all periods presented.



Industry Trends



The global payments industry has evolved with technological innovations that have created new methods of processing payments from consumers to businesses. The various products within the global payments industry are in varying stages of development outside the United States. We believe that the United States is in the midst of a trend away from cash and paper checks for bill payments toward electronic payment methods accessible through multiple technologies.













Competition



Western Union competes with a diverse set of service providers offering both cash and electronic-based payment solutions. Competition in electronic payment services includes financial institutions (which may offer consumer bill payment in their own name or may “host” payment services operated under the names of their clients) and other non-bank competitors. Competition for electronic payments also includes businesses offering their own or third-party services to their own customers and third-party providers of all sizes offering services directly to consumers. In many cases, competitors specialize in a small number of industries. Competitors for cash payments include businesses that allow consumers to pay a bill at one of their locations, or at the location of a partner business, as well as mail and courier services. The ongoing trend away from cash-based bill payments in the United States and competitive pressures, which result in lower cash-based bill payment volumes and a shift to lower revenue per transaction products, continue to impact this business.



We believe the most significant competitive factors in this segment relate to brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, convenience, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings, innovation, and price.



Business Solutions Segment



In our Business Solutions segment, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals.



Operations



The substantial majority of our revenue in this segment is derived from foreign exchange revenues, which are based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the customer and the rate at which we are able to acquire the currency. Customers may remit a check or make an electronic or wire transfer in order to initiate a transaction. Our Internet services are provided in partnership with other websites for which we act as the service provider and through our own website. The significant majority of the segment's revenue was generated outside of the United States during all periods presented.



Services



Business Solutions payment transactions are conducted through various channels including the phone and Internet. Payments are made predominately through wire transfers and ACH, but in some situations, checks are remitted. The majority of Business Solutions' business relates to exchanges of currency at the spot rate which enables customers to make cross-currency payments. In addition, in certain countries, we write foreign currency forward and option contracts for customers to facilitate future payments.



Distribution and Marketing Channels



Our business payment services are primarily offered over the phone, through partner channels, and via the Internet. Our Internet services are marketed through co-branding arrangements with our website partners as well as on our website.



Our Business Solutions services are available in 30 countries. We have relationships with approximately 100,000 customers with respect to our payment solutions. These relationships are a core component of our business payments services. No individual customer accounted for greater than 10% of this segment's revenue since the acquisition of TGBP.



Industry Trends



The business-to-business payments industry has evolved with technological innovations that have created new methods of processing payments from businesses to other businesses. The various products within the Business Solutions industry are in varying stages of development outside the United States. The cross-border payments industry is expected to expand in the future due to the expanding global focus of many businesses.













Competition



Western Union competes with a diverse set of service providers offering payment services and risk management solutions, including financial institutions and other non-bank competitors. We believe the most significant competitive factors in this segment relate to recurring relationships founded on customer service and expertise in payments and foreign exchange, customized solutions for specific industries and clients, convenience and speed of payments network, availability of derivative products, variety of inbound and outbound payment methods, brand recognition and price.



Other



Our remaining businesses are grouped in the “Other” category, which includes our money order, prepaid services, mobile money transfer, and other businesses and services, in addition to costs for the investigation and closing of acquisitions.



Customers use our money orders for making purchases, paying bills, and as an alternative to checks that can be deposited directly into bank accounts or cashed at check cashiers, some banks and some retailers. We derive investment income from interest generated on our money order settlement assets, which are primarily held in United States tax exempt state and municipal debt securities.



Our prepaid cards are sold primarily in the United States through retail locations and on the Internet and are Mastercard®or Visa®-branded. This service allows consumers to load money or receive a direct deposit onto the card for use at a later date. The card can be used to withdraw money from an ATM or used where debit cards are accepted. We have agreements with depository institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that serve as the issuers of our cards in the United States. At certain agent locations, we also provide consumers the ability to make cash payments for prepaid phone or other services, including the ability to load principal onto prepaid cards, including our own. Our stored-value products and services are currently offered in twelve countries worldwide, with cards being issued either by us or through other licensed institutions.



Our mobile money transfer service provides consumers in certain countries with the ability to transfer money to a mobile wallet or bank account. Consumers in selected countries can also initiate transactions from their mobile phones and send money from mobile wallets or bank accounts.



Intellectual Property



The Western Union logo, service mark, and trade dress (collectively, “Marks”) are registered and/or used worldwide and are material to our Company. The WU®service mark is currently registered in the United States and the European Community with applications pending in many other countries around the world. The international expansion of our agent network over the past decade has taken the Western Union brand nearly everywhere consumers send and receive money. We offer money transfer services under the Western Union, Orlandi ValutaSMand Vigo®brands. We also provide various payment and other services under brands such as Western Union Payments, Quick Collect, Convenience PaySM, Quick Pay, Quick Cash, Speedpay, Equity Accelerator, Pago Fácil (registered in Argentina), Western Union Business Solutions and MoneyWiseTM.



Our operating results over the past several years have allowed us to invest significantly each year to support our brands. In 2012, we invested approximately $235 million to market, advertise and promote our brands and services, including costs of dedicated marketing personnel. Many of our agents have also contributed significant financial resources to assist with marketing our services.



We own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our processes and services. We have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims and suits alleging that our technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others, both in and out of the United States. Unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver services, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.













Risk Management



Our Company has a credit risk management department that evaluates and monitors our agent-related credit and fraud risks. We are exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. We also are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our online services and electronic Consumer-to-Business payment channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and may therefore be subject to “chargebacks,” insufficient funds, or other collection impediments, such as fraud. Our credit risk management team performs a credit review before each agent signing and conducts periodic analyses.



We are exposed to credit risk in our Business Solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) receivables from certain customers for which beneficiaries are paid prior to receiving cleared funds from the customer, where we have offered “trade credit.” For the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. The credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. For those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. To mitigate risk, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post collateral or increase collateral based on the fair value of the customer's contract and their risk profile.



To manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions.



A key component of the Western Union business model is our ability to manage financial risk associated with conducting transactions worldwide. We settle accounts with the majority of our agents in United States dollars or euros. We utilize foreign currency exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts, to mitigate the risks associated with currency fluctuations and to provide predictability of future cash flows. Limited foreign currency risk arises with respect to the agent settlement process because the majority of money transfer transactions are paid within 24 hours after they are initiated and agent settlements occur within a few days in most instances. We have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management due to the nature of our Business Solutions business. The majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling customers to make cross-currency payments. Business Solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. The foreign exchange risk is actively managed.



Our financial results may fluctuate due to changes in interest rates. We review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, while also considering the duration of the individual positions. We manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. Our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. The latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). We use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions.

















International Investment



No provision has been made for United States federal and state income taxes on certain of our outside tax basis differences, which primarily relate to accumulated foreign earnings of approximately $4.4 billion as of December 31, 2012, as we expect to reinvest these earnings outside the United States indefinitely. We intend to invest these earnings to expand and diversify our global distribution and explore new service offerings and may also consider international acquisition opportunities. In 2011, our foreign cash allowed us to acquire TGBP and the remaining interests in two of our largest European-based agents, Finint S.r.l. and Angelo Costa, S.r.l. However, if we are unable to utilize accumulated earnings outside of the United States and we repatriate these earnings to the United States in the form of actual or constructive dividends, we would be subject to United States federal income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes and possible withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries. Such taxes could be significant.



Regulation



Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the United States federal government, each of the states, many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union. These include laws and regulations regarding: financial services, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. Our services also are subject to an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. Failure, by Western Union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom Western Union has limited legal and practical control), to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer services and/or payment services or foreign exchange products, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services.



We have developed and continue to enhance our global compliance programs, including our anti-money laundering program comprised of policies, procedures, systems and internal controls to monitor and to address various legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, we continue to adapt our business practices and strategies to help us comply with current and evolving legal standards and industry practices, including heightened regulatory focus on compliance with anti-money laundering or fraud prevention requirements. These programs include dedicated compliance personnel, training and monitoring programs, suspicious activity reporting, regulatory outreach and education, and support and guidance to our agent network on regulatory compliance. Our money transfer and payment service networks operate through third-party agents in most countries, and, therefore, there are limitations on our legal and practical ability to completely control those agents' compliance activities. In 2012, the Company spent over $100 million on its compliance and regulatory programs.



Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing and Regulation



Our money transfer and money order services are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended, including by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (collectively, the “BSA”) and similar state laws and regulations. The BSA, among other things, requires money transfer companies and the issuers and sellers of money orders, to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and in some cases, to collect and maintain information about consumers who use their services and maintain other transaction records. Many states impose similar and, in some cases, more stringent requirements. These requirements also apply to our agents. In addition, the United States Department of the Treasury has interpreted the BSA to require money transfer companies to conduct due diligence into and risk-based monitoring of their agents inside and outside the United States. Compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations has become a top area of regulatory attention, with agreements being reached with Western Union and several large financial institutions, including another money transfer provider.



Economic and trade sanctions programs administered by the United States Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) prohibit or restrict transactions to or from (or dealings with) certain countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with specifically-designated individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. We provide very limited money transfer and payments services to individuals in Cuba, Syria and Sudan pursuant to and as authorized by advisory opinions of, or licenses granted by, OFAC.













In the United States, most states license money transfer services providers and many exercise authority over the operations of our money transfer services and, as part of this authority, regularly examine us. Many states require us to invest the proceeds of money transfers in highly-rated, investment grade securities, and our use of such investments is restricted to satisfy outstanding settlement obligations. We regularly monitor credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities in compliance with these regulations. The majority of our investment securities, classified within “Settlement assets” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, are held in order to comply with state licensing requirements in the United States and had credit ratings of “AA-” or better from a major credit rating agency as of December 31, 2012.



These licensing laws also cover matters such as government approval of controlling shareholders and senior management of our licensed entities, regulatory approval of agents and in some instances their locations, consumer disclosures and the filing of periodic reports by the licensee, and require the licensee to demonstrate and maintain certain net worth levels. Many states also require money transmitters and their agents to comply with federal and/or state anti-money laundering laws and regulations.



Outside of the United States, our money transfer business is subject to some form of regulation in all of the countries and territories in which we offer those services. These laws and regulations may include limitations on what types of entities may offer money transfer services, agent registration requirements, limitations on the amount of principal that can be sent into or out of a country, limitations on the number of money transfers that may be sent or received by a consumer and controls on the rates of exchange between currencies. They also include laws and regulations intended to detect and prevent money laundering or terrorist financing, including obligations to collect and maintain information about consumers, recordkeeping, reporting and due diligence, and supervision of agents and sub-agents similar to and in some cases exceeding those required under the BSA. In most countries, either we or our agents are required to obtain licenses or to register with a government authority in order to offer money transfer services.



The Payment Services Directive (“PSD”) in the European Union (“EU”), along with similar laws in other jurisdictions, have imposed new rules on payment service providers like Western Union. In particular, Western Union has become responsible for the regulatory compliance of our agents who are engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries. Thus, the costs to monitor our agents and the risk of adverse regulatory action against us because of the actions of our agents in those areas have increased. The majority of our EU business is managed through our PSD subsidiary, which is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. Under the PSD, we are subject to investment safeguarding rules and periodic examinations similar to those we are subject to in the United States. These rules have resulted in increased compliance costs and may lead to increased competition in our areas of service. Additional countries may adopt legislation similar to these laws. The PSD, as well as legislation in other countries such as Russia, has also allowed an increased number of non-bank entities to become money transfer agents, thereby resulting in increased competition.













Risk Factors

-

“Western Union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators”

for more information on this agreement and settlement, including the potential impact on our business.



Regulators worldwide are exercising increasingly closer supervision of money remitters and requiring increasingly greater efforts to ensure compliance. As a result, we are experiencing increasing compliance costs related to verification, transaction approval, disclosure, and reporting requirements, along with other requirements that have had and will continue to have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.



Government agencies both inside and outside the United States may impose new or additional rules on money transfers affecting us or our agents or their subagents, including regulations that:



•prohibit transactions in, to or from certain countries, governments and individuals and entities;



•impose additional identification, reporting or recordkeeping requirements;



•limit the types of entities capable of providing money transfer services, impose additional licensing or registration requirements on us, our agents, or their subagents, or impose additional requirements on us with regard to monitoring or oversight of our agents or their subagents;



•impose minimum capital or other financial requirements on us or our agents and their subagents;



•limit or restrict the revenue which may be generated from money transfers, including transaction fees and revenue derived from foreign exchange;



•require enhanced disclosures to our money transfer customers;



•require the principal amount of money transfers originated in a country to be invested in that country or held in trust until they are paid;



•limit the number or principal amount of money transfers which may be sent to or from the jurisdiction, whether by an individual, through one agent or in aggregate; or



•impose taxes or fees on money transfer transactions.













Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act



Risk Factors

-

“The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the regulations required by that Act and the actions of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition

.”



Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act



We also expect that the Foreign Account Tax Compliance provisions of the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act (“FATCA”) will likely result in increased compliance costs. FATCA, which is intended to address tax compliance issues related to U.S. taxpayers holding non-U.S. accounts, will require certain of our licensed financial institutions and other entities outside the United States to report to the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), directly or through foreign government agencies cooperating with the IRS, information about financial transactions made by U.S. taxpayers and could impose withholding, documentation and reporting requirements on such transactions. Full implementation will be phased in over a multi-year period. The additional administrative requirements of FATCA will likely result in increased compliance costs and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. For further discussion of the risks associated with FATCA, see Part I, Item 1A,Risk Factors-“Regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition.”



Unclaimed Property Regulations



Our Company is subject to unclaimed property laws in the United States and abroad. These laws require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by our Company that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers and money orders. We hold property subject to unclaimed property laws and we have an ongoing program to comply with the laws. We are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices.













Privacy and Information Security Regulations



The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of personal information are required to provide our services. These activities are subject to information security standards, data privacy, data breach and related laws and regulations in the United States and other countries. In the United States, data privacy and data breach laws such as the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and various state laws apply directly to a broad range of financial institutions including money transmitters like Western Union, and indirectly to companies that provide services to or on behalf of those institutions. The United States Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multimillion dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. The FTC and several states have expanded their area of concern to include privacy practices related to mobile applications. Many state laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, state officers and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a security breach of computer databases or physical documents that contain certain types of non-public personal information and present a risk for unauthorized use.



The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of personal information required to provide our services is subject to data privacy laws outside of the United States, such as laws adopted pursuant to the EU's 95/46 EC Directive of the European Parliament (the “Data Protection Directive”), and individual national and provincial laws throughout the world. In some cases, these laws are more restrictive than the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and impose additional duties on companies. These laws, which are not uniform, do one or more of the following: restrict the collection, transfer, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices and may give individuals certain rights to prevent the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing.



These regulations, laws and industry standards also impose requirements for safeguarding personal information through the issuance of internal data security standards, controls or guidelines.



In connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, Western Union makes information available to certain United States federal and state, as well as certain foreign, government agencies when required by law. In recent years, these agencies have increased their requests for such information from Western Union and other companies (both financial service providers and others), particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or identity theft. During the same period, there has also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. These regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While we believe that Western Union is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose Western Union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage.



Banking Regulation



We have subsidiaries that operate under banking licenses granted by the Austrian Financial Market Authority and the Brazilian Central Bank which subject these subsidiaries to Austrian and Brazilian regulations. We are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the New York Department of Financial Services (the “Financial Services Department”), which has regulatory authority over our entity that holds all interests in these subsidiaries, a limited liability investment company organized under Article XII of the New York Banking Law. An Agreement of Supervision with the Financial Services Department imposes various regulatory requirements including operational limitations, capital requirements, affiliate transaction limitations, and notice and reporting requirements. Financial Services Department approval is required under the New York Banking Law and the Agreement of Supervision prior to any change in control of the Article XII investment company.



Since these subsidiaries do not operate any banking offices in the United States and do not conduct business in the United States except as may be incidental to their activities outside the United States, our Company's affiliation with these subsidiaries does not cause them to be subject to the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act in the United States.













Other



Some of our services are subject to card association rules and regulations. For example, an independent standards-setting organization, the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) Security Standards Council (including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa Inc. International) developed a set of comprehensive requirements concerning payment card account security through the transaction process, called the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI DSS”). All merchants and service providers that store, process and transmit payment card data are required to comply with PCI DSS as a condition to accepting credit cards. We are subject to annual reviews to ensure compliance with PCI regulations worldwide and are subject to fines if we are found to be non-compliant.



Stored-value services offered by Western Union are subject to United States federal and state laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations outside of the United States, related to consumer protection, licensing, escheat and money laundering. As we begin offering similar services internationally, those services may be subject to various country laws. These laws are evolving, and the extent to which they apply to Western Union or its consumers is sometimes unclear. While we are unable to determine the full impact that new laws and changing interpretations may have on these services, recent history suggests that new rules may, among other things, broaden our liability for the services and increase the scope of the information that we and our agents must collect, maintain and report about consumers.



Employees and Labor



As of January 31, 2013, our businesses employed approximately 9,000 employees, of which approximately 7,000 employees are located outside of the United States.



Available Information



The Western Union Company is a Delaware corporation and its principal executive offices are located at 12500 East Belford Avenue, Englewood, CO, 80112, telephone (866) 405-5012. The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the “Investor Relations” portion of the Company's web site, www.westernunion.com, as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The SEC maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically with the SEC by the Company.













Executive Officers of the Registrant



As ofFebruary 22, 2013, our executives consist of the individuals listed below:



NameAgePositionHikmet Ersek52President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorRajesh K. Agrawal47Executive Vice President and President, Western Union Business SolutionsJohn R. Dye53Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryPaula S. Larson50Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerScott T. Scheirman50Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerDiane Scott42Executive Vice President, Chief Product and Marketing OfficerJ. David Thompson46Executive Vice President, Global Operations and Chief Information Officer



Hikmet Ersekis our President and Chief Executive Officer (from September 2010) and a member of the Company's Board of Directors (from April 2010). From January 2010 to August 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Chief Operating Officer. Prior to January 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific Region from December 2008. From September 2006 to December 2008, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Europe/Middle East/Africa/South Asia. Prior to September 2006, Mr. Ersek held various positions of increasing responsibility with Western Union. Prior to joining Western Union in September 1999, Mr. Ersek was with GE Capital specializing in European payment systems and consumer finance.



Rajesh K. Agrawalis our Executive Vice President (from November 2011) and President, Western Union Business Solutions (from August 2011). Prior to August 2011, Mr. Agrawal served as General Manager, Business Solutions since November 2010, and as Senior Vice President of Finance for Business Units, from August 2010 to November 2010. Previously, Mr. Agrawal served as Senior Vice President of Finance of the Company's Europe, Middle East, and Africa and Asia Pacific regions from July 2008 to August 2010, and as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Western Union from June 2006 to May 2008. Mr. Agrawal joined Western Union in 2006.



John R. Dyeis our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to taking this position in November 2011, Mr. Dye was Senior Vice President, Interim General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”) from July 2011. From July 2007 to July 2011, Mr. Dye served as Senior Vice President, Principal Deputy General Counsel Corporate Affairs, of FHLMC. Prior to joining FHLMC, Mr. Dye served as Associate General Counsel at Citigroup Inc. from August 1999 to July 2007, and as Senior Vice President and Senior Counsel at Salomon Smith Barney from 1994 to 1999. Prior to that time, Mr. Dye was an attorney at the law firm of Brown & Wood. Mr. Dye is also Chairman of the Board of the Western Union Foundation.



Paula S. Larsonis our Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to taking this position in November 2011, Ms. Larson was Chief Human Resources Officer for Invensys Plc from April 2005 to March 2011. Prior to that time, Ms. Larson held various senior human resources positions at Eaton Corporation and subsidiaries of General Electric Company.













Scott T. Scheirmanis our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Scheirman has been the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since September 2006 and assumed the additional responsibilities of Global Operations from January 2012 through November 2012. In addition, from June 2011 through November 2011, Mr. Scheirman served as interim Chief Human Resources Officer for the Company. Prior to becoming the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in September 2006, Mr. Scheirman held a variety of positions with increasing responsibility at First Data, including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Western Union from 1999 to September 2006. Prior to joining First Data in 1992, Mr. Scheirman was with Ernst & Young LLP.



Diane Scottis our Executive Vice President, Chief Product and Marketing Officer. Prior to taking this position in December 2012, Ms. Scott was our Chief Marketing Officer (from April 2011) and President, Western Union Ventures (from August 2011). Prior to April 2011, Ms. Scott was Senior Vice President, Marketing, Americas since March 2009. From March 2008 to March 2009, Ms. Scott served as Vice President, Marketing Services, and General Manager, Domestic Money Transfer. From March 2007 to March 2008, Ms. Scott served as Vice President, Domestic Money Transfer and Marketing Services, and from January 2005 to March 2007, she served as Vice President and General Manager, Domestic Money Transfer. Ms. Scott joined Western Union in 2001.



J. David Thompsonis our Executive Vice President, Global Operations (from November 2012) and Chief Information Officer (from April 2012). Prior to April 2012, Mr. Thompson was Group President, Services & Support and Global CIO of Symantec Corporation since January 2008. From February 2006 to January 2008, Mr. Thompson served as Symantec's Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. Prior to joining Symantec, Mr. Thompson was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Oracle Corporation from January 2005 to January 2006. From August 1995 to January 2005, he was Vice President of Services and Chief Information Officer at PeopleSoft, Inc. Mr. Thompson is a director of CoreSite Realty Corporation.













