ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

Overview

The Western Union Company (the “Company,” “Western Union,” “we,” “our” or
“us”) is a leader in global money movement and payment services, providing people and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send money and make payments around the world. The Company was incorporated in Delaware as a
wholly-owned subsidiary of First Data Corporation (“First Data”) on February 17, 2006, and on September 29, 2006, First Data distributed all of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a Western
Union money transfer agent, as well as its related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to First Data shareholders (“Spin-off”) through this previously owned subsidiary.

The Western Union®brand is globally recognized and represents speed, reliability, trust and convenience. As people move and travel around the world, they are able to use the services
of a well recognized brand to transfer funds. Our consumer-to-consumer money transfer service enables people to send money around the world in minutes. As of December 31, 2011, our services were available through a global network of more than
485,000 agent locations in more than 200 countries and territories, with approximately 90% of those locations outside of the United States. Each location in our agent network is capable of providing one or more of our services, with the majority
offering a Western Union branded service. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 70% of our locations had experienced money transfer activity in the previous 12 months.

We also provide consumers and businesses with flexible and convenient options for making one-time or recurring bill
payments, including business-to-business payment transactions, which are primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, in our global business payments segment. In November 2011, we acquired the business-to-business payment business of
Travelex Holdings Limited, known as Travelex Global Business Payments (“TGBP”). Although the majority of the revenue in our global business payments segment was generated in the United States, international expansion and other key
strategic initiatives, including TGBP, have resulted in international revenue continuing to increase in this segment.

We believe that brand strength, size and reach of our global network, and convenience and reliability for our customers have been important to the growth of our business. As we continue to meet the needs
of our customers for fast, reliable and convenient global money movement and payment services, we are also working to enhance our services and provide our consumer and business clients with access to an expanding portfolio of payment and other
financial services.

The majority of our revenue comes from fees that consumers pay when they send money or
make payments. In certain money transfer and payment services transactions involving different send and receive currencies, we generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer or business and the rate at
which we or our agents are able to acquire the currency.

Our Segments

We manage our business based on the customers we serve and the type of services we offer. Each segment addresses a
different combination of customer needs, distribution networks and services. Our segments are consumer-to-consumer and global business payments. Our other businesses not included in these segments primarily consist of money order and prepaid
services available through a network of third-party agents.







The table below presents the components of our consolidated revenue:



201120102009Consumer-to-consumer (a)EMEASA (b)43%44%45%Americas (c)32%31%32%APAC (d)9%9%8%Total consumer-to-consumer84%84%85%Global business payments14%14%14%Other2%2%1%100%100%100%





(a)The consumer-to-consumer geographic split is determined based upon the region where the money transfer is initiated and the region where the money
transfer is paid. For transactions originated and paid in different regions, we split the revenue between the two regions, with each region receiving 50%. For money transfers initiated and paid in the same region, 100% of the revenue is attributed
to that region.



(b)Represents the Europe, Middle East, Africa and South Asia region of our consumer-to-consumer segment, including India.



(c)Represents the Americas region of our consumer-to-consumer segment, which includes North America, Central America, the Caribbean and South America.



(d)Represents the Asia Pacific region of our consumer-to-consumer segment.

Financial information relating to our international and domestic revenues and long-lived assets for all of our segments
is set forth in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II.

For
additional details regarding our consumer-to-consumer and global business payments segments, including financial information regarding our international and United States operations, see Item 7 of Part II and our consolidated financial
statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

See
Risk Factors for a discussion of certain risks relating to our foreign operations.

Consumer-to-Consumer Segment

Individual money transfers from one consumer to another are the core of our business, representing 84% of our total
consolidated revenues for 2011. We offer consumers a variety of ways to send money. Although most remittances are sent from one of our more than 485,000 agent locations worldwide, in some countries we offer the ability to send money over the
Internet or phone using a credit or debit card, or through a withdrawal directly from a consumer’s bank account or mobile wallet. All agent locations accept cash to initiate a transaction, and some also accept debit cards. We offer consumers
several options to receive a money transfer. While the vast majority of transfers are paid in cash at agent locations, in some places we offer payout directly to the receiver’s bank account, to a stored-value card, to a mobile phone or through
the issuance of a money order.

Operations

Our revenue is derived primarily from transaction fees charged to consumers to transfer money. In money transfers involving different send and receive currencies, we also generate revenue based on the
difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire currency.







In a typical money transfer transaction, a consumer goes to one of our agent
locations, completes a form specifying, among other things, the name and address of the recipient, and delivers it, along with the principal amount of the money transfer and the fee, to the agent. Certain of these processes are streamlined for our
customers who use our loyalty card. This sending agent enters the transaction information into our money transfer system and the funds are made available for payment, usually within minutes. The recipient enters an agent location in the designated
receiving area or country, presents identification and is paid the transferred amount. Recipients do not pay a fee (although in limited circumstances, a tax may be imposed by the local government on the receipt of the money transfer). We determine
the fee paid by the sender, which generally is based on the principal amount of the transaction and the send and receive locations.

We generally pay our agents a commission based on a percentage of revenue. A commission is usually paid to both the agent that initiated the transaction, the “send agent,” and the agent that
paid the transaction, the “receive agent.” For most agents, the costs of providing the physical infrastructure and staff are typically covered by the agent’s primary business (e.g., postal services, banking, check cashing, travel and
retail businesses), making the economics of being a Western Union agent attractive. Western Union’s global reach and large consumer base allow us to attract agents we believe to be of high quality.

To complement the convenience offered by our network’s global physical locations, in certain countries we have also
made our services available through other channels, as described below under “Services.”

Over 85%
of our consumer-to-consumer transactions involve at least one non-United States location. No individual country outside the United States accounted for more than approximately 6% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. Certain of our agents facilitate a large number of transactions; however, each individual agent accounted for less than 10% of the segment’s revenue during these periods.

Services

We offer money transfer services worldwide. In 2011, the substantial majority of our consumer-to-consumer transactions
were cash money transfers involving our walk-in agent locations around the world. Although demand for in-person, cash money transfers has historically been the strongest, we offer a number of options for sending and receiving funds that provide
consumers convenience and choice. The different ways consumers can send or receive money include the following:

Walk-in money transfer service.The substantial majority of our remittances constitute transactions in which cash is collected by the agent and payment (usually cash) is available for pick-up
at another agent location in the designated receive location, usually within minutes. We also offer convenience to our consumers to initiate a transaction through the phone using a debit or credit card. To facilitate offering our services at retail
locations that do not have dedicated service staff, we provide “goCASHsm” in the United States and the United Kingdom, a money transfer service that lets consumers purchase money transfers at pre-set amounts in-lane, at a cash register, and then complete the transfer
over the phone through a Western Union customer service representative or through our website. We provide a “Cash to Card” service that provides consumers an option to direct funds to a Western Union branded stored-value card in the United
States, with the option to have the card delivered overnight to a consumer’s home.

Our “Next
Day” delivery option is a money transfer that is available for payment the morning after the money transfer is sent. This option is available for certain domestic service within the United States, and in select United States outbound and
international corridors. The Next Day delivery service gives our consumers a lower-priced option for money transfers that do not need to be received within minutes, while still offering the convenience, reliability and ease-of-use that our consumers
expect.







Online money transfer service.Our websites allow consumers to
send funds online, generally using a credit or debit card, for pay-out at most Western Union branded agent locations around the world. As of December 31, 2011, we are now providing online money transfer service in more than 20 countries,
allowing consumers in these countries to send money throughout the world.

Account based money transfer
service.This service allows consumers to access Western Union services electronically, directly from their bank’s Internet or automated teller machine (“ATM”) banking service. Consumers can use their bank account to initiate
a Western Union money transfer electronically, without having to visit a physical Western Union agent location. In the United States, including some United States outbound corridors, Canada and in other select international corridors, we provide a
“Direct to Bank” service, enabling a consumer to send a transaction from an agent location directly to a bank account. Globally, we have relationships with over 80 banks that have agreed to offer one or more of these services, primarily
through their online banking portals.

Mobile money transfer service.Our mobile money transfer
service provides consumers in certain countries with the ability to transfer money to a mobile wallet or bank account. Consumers in selected countries can also initiate transactions from their mobile phones and send money from mobile wallets or bank
accounts. As of December 31, 2011, there were over 150,000 Western Union agent locations enabled with the technology to transfer money to a mobile phone.

Money transfer services through electronic channels, which include online, account based, and mobile money transfer,
combined were 3% of consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011.

Distribution and Marketing Channels

We offer our consumer-to-consumer service to millions of consumers around the world primarily through our global network
of third-party agents in almost every country and territory, with approximately 90% of our agent locations being located outside of the United States. Our agents facilitate the global distribution and convenience associated with our Western Union
and other brands, which in-turn helps create demand for our services and helps us to recruit and retain agents. Western Union agents include large networks such as post offices, banks and retailers and other established organizations that provide
other consumer products and services. Many of our agents have multiple locations. Our agents know the markets they serve and work with our management to develop business plans for their markets. Many of our agents contribute financial resources to,
or otherwise support, our efforts to market the business. Many agents operate in locations that are open outside of traditional banking hours, for example on nights and weekends. Our top 40 agents globally have been with us an average of
approximately 16 years and in 2011, these long-standing agents were involved in transactions that generated approximately 60% of our consumer-to-consumer revenue.

We provide our third-party agents with our multi-currency, real-time money transfer processing systems used to originate
and pay money transfers. We continue to develop our network around the world to optimize send and receive corridors. Our systems and processes enable our agents to pay money transfers in more than 120 currencies worldwide. Certain of our agents can
pay in multiple currencies at a single location. Our agents provide the physical infrastructure and staff required to complete the transfers. Western Union provides central operating functions such as transaction processing, settlement, marketing
support and customer relationship management to our agents.

Some of our agents outside the United States
manage subagents. We refer to these agents as superagents. Although our subagents are under contract with these superagents (and not with Western Union directly), the subagent locations typically have access to similar technology and services as our
other agent locations.

Our international agents often customize services as appropriate for their geographic
markets. In some markets, individual agents are independently offering specific services such as stored-value card payout options







or Direct to Bank service. We market our services to consumers in a number of ways, directly and indirectly through our agent partners, leveraging advertising promotional activities, grassroots,
digital, and loyalty programs. Our marketing benefits from feedback from our agents and consumers.

Our
marketing strategy includes our global loyalty card program, which is available in a growing number of countries and territories. As of December 31, 2011, the loyalty card program was available in approximately 80 countries and territories and
had almost 18 million active cards, an increase of 2 million cards from December 31, 2010. The card offers customers faster service at the point-of-sale and, in certain countries and at westernunion.com, reduced transaction fees or
cash back. Loyalty card customers generally initiate more transactions and have a higher rate of retention than non-carded customers. Over 40% of Western Union branded consumer-to-consumer transactions are initiated using a loyalty card. The global
loyalty card program is one component of our customer relationship management strategy designed to support and enhance long-term relationships with our customers. Customer databases supplement these efforts by providing insight on customer
preferences so that we can selectively target customer communications and marketing.

Industry Trends

Over the last several years, except for 2009, the cross-border money transfer industry has experienced growth. Trends in
the cross-border money transfer business tend to correlate to migration trends, global economic opportunity and related employment levels worldwide. The top four inbound remittance countries in the world are India, China, Mexico and the Philippines,
and cumulatively receive an estimated $130 billion annually according to Aite Group LLC’s (“Aite”) July 2011 report. Due to the challenging global economy, including low consumer confidence and high unemployment, the demand for
money transfers has softened compared to historical growth rates. Aite projects cross-border remittance growth of approximately 5% in 2012.

Another significant trend impacting the money transfer industry is the increase in regulation. Regulation in the United States and elsewhere focuses, in part, on anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist
activities and consumer protection. Regulations require money transfer providers, banks and other financial institutions to develop systems to prevent, detect, monitor and report certain transactions.

Competition

We face robust competition in the highly-fragmented consumer-to-consumer money transfer industry. We compete with a variety of remittance providers, including:



•Global money transfer providers—Global money transfer providers allow consumers to send money to a wide variety of locations, in both
their home countries and abroad.



•Regional money transfer providers—Regional money transfer providers, or “niche” players, provide the same services as global
money transfer providers, but focus on a smaller group of corridors or services within one region, such as North America to the Caribbean, Central or South America, or Western Europe to North Africa.



•Banks and postbanks—Banks and postbanks of all sizes compete with us in a number of ways, including bank wire services and card-based
services.



•Informal networks—Informal networks enable people to transfer funds without formal mechanisms and often without compliance with
government reporting requirements. We believe that such networks comprise a significant share of the market.



•Electronic commerce—Online money transfer services allow consumers to send and receive money electronically using the Internet.







•Alternative channels—Alternative channels for sending and receiving money include mail and commercial courier services, money transfers
using mobile phones, and card-based options, such as ATM cards and stored-value cards.

We
believe the most significant competitive factors in consumer-to-consumer remittances relate to brand recognition, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, and consumer experience and price.

Global Business Payments Segment

In our global business payments segment, we provide fast and convenient options to make one-time or recurring payments for consumers or businesses to other businesses. We allow consumers to make payments
to a variety of organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers, governmental agencies and other businesses. We also provide business-to-business payment services, primarily for
cross-border, cross-currency transactions. We can process payments using the customer’s credit card, debit card, bank account or cash depending on the service selected. We believe our business customers who receive payments through our services
benefit from their relationship with Western Union as it provides them with real-time or near real-time posting of their customer payments. In certain circumstances, our relationships with business customers also provide them with an additional
source of income, as well as reduced expenses for cash and check handling.

Operations

Our revenue in this segment is derived primarily from transaction fees paid by the customer. The
consumer payments fees are typically less than the fees charged in our consumer-to-consumer segment. Consumers may make a cash payment at an agent or owned location and businesses may remit a check, electronic or wire transfer in order to initiate a
transaction. In order to make an electronic payment, consumers or businesses initiate a transaction over the phone or the Internet which we process through credit card, debit card, automated clearing house (“ACH”) or wire transfer,
depending on the service selected. Our Internet services are provided through our own websites or, in certain circumstances, in partnership with other websites for which we act as the service provider. In cross-border transactions involving
different currencies, we primarily generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the business or consumer and the rate at which we are able to acquire currency. In addition, we generate revenue from upfront
enrollment fees received for our Equity Accelerator®service, and we earn investment income on funds received
from services sold in advance of settlement with payment recipients.

While we continue to pursue further
international expansion of our offerings in this segment, the majority of the segment’s revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented. However, international expansion, including the TGBP acquisition, and other key
strategic initiatives have resulted in international revenue continuing to increase in this segment.

Services

Our global business payments services are available through a variety of products which give customers choices as to the
payment channel and method of payment, and include the following:

Western Union Business Solutions
(“Business Solutions”).Business Solutions offers business-to-business payment solutions, primarily for cross-border, cross-currency transactions. This business also includes TGBP. These payment transactions are conducted through
various channels including the phone and Internet. Business Solutions serves as the service provider for other partner websites and also operates its own website. Payments are made predominately through wire transfers and ACH, but in some
situations, checks are remitted. The majority of Business Solutions’ business relates to exchanges of currency at the spot rate which enables customers to make cross-currency payments. In addition, in certain countries, we write foreign
currency forward and option contracts for customers to facilitate future payments.







Western Union Payments.The Western Union
Payments service, formerly Quick Collect®, allows consumers to send funds to businesses and government agencies
across the United States and Canada, using cash and, in certain locations, a debit card. This service is offered primarily at Western Union agent locations, but may be provided via our westernunion.com website in limited situations. This service is
also offered in select international locations under the service mark Quick PaySM. We also offer Quick Cash®, a cash disbursement service used by
businesses and government agencies to send money to employees or individuals with whom they have accounts or other business relationships. Similar to our Western Union Payments service, consumers use our Western Union Convenience Pay®(“Convenience Pay”) service to send payments by cash or check from a smaller number of Convenience Pay
agent locations primarily to utilities and telecommunication providers. We are in the process of consolidating all of these services to be marketed as Western Union Payments.

Pago Fácil®. In South America, we offer walk-in, cash bill payment services which allow consumers to make payments for services such as phone, utilities and other recurring
bills. In Argentina, we provide this service under the Pago Fácil brand. We offer this service under the Western Union brand in Peru and Panama.

Speedpay®. Our Speedpay service is offered principally in the United States and allows consumers to make payments to a variety of businesses using credit cards, debit
cards, ACH and in limited situations, checks. Payments are initiated over the phone or the Internet. We also partner with some businesses to allow their customers to access Speedpay from their websites.

Equity Accelerator.Our Equity Accelerator service enables consumers to make mortgage
payments by ACH. It is marketed as a convenient way for homeowners to schedule additional recurring principal payments on their mortgages. Consumers who enroll in this service make mortgage payments based on an accelerated program, which results in
a more rapid reduction of their mortgage balance, as well as interest savings. We also offer a non-recurring mortgage payment service under the brand Just in Time EFT®.

Distribution and Marketing Channels

Our electronic consumer payment services are available primarily through the phone and the Internet, while our cash-based
consumer services are available through our agent networks and select Company owned locations. Our business payment services are offered through Company locations, phone, via the Internet and partner channels.

Businesses market our services to consumers in a number of ways, and we market our services directly to consumers and
businesses using a variety of means, including advertising materials, promotional activities, call campaigns and attendance at trade shows and seminars. Our Internet services are marketed to consumers and businesses on our websites as well as
through co-branding arrangements with our website partners who offer our payment solutions.

We have
relationships with more than 10,000 consumer payments businesses to which our customers can make payments. These relationships are a core component of our global business payments services. On average, we have provided our payment services to our
top 20 businesses to which our consumers can make payments for more than 14 years. No individual customer or business accounted for greater than 10% of this segment’s revenue during all periods presented.

Industry Trends

The global business payments industry has evolved with technological innovations that have created new methods of processing payments from individuals or businesses to other businesses. The various
products within the global business payments industry are in varying stages of development outside the United States. The cross-border payments industry is expected to expand considerably in the future due to the expanding global focus of many
businesses. We believe that the United States is in the midst of a trend away from cash and paper checks toward electronic payment methods accessible through multiple technologies.







Competition

Western Union competes with a diverse set of service providers offering both cash and electronic-based payment solutions and business-to-business payment services. Competition in electronic payments and
business-to-business payment services include financial institutions (which may offer consumer bill payment or business payment services in their own name or may “host” payment services operated under the names of their clients) and other
non-bank competitors. Competition for electronic payments also includes businesses offering their own or third-party services to their own customers and third-party providers of all sizes offering services directly to consumers. In many cases,
competitors specialize in a small number of industries. Competitors for cash payments include businesses that allow consumers to pay a bill at one of their locations, or at the location of a partner business, as well as mail and courier services.
The ongoing trend away from cash-based bill payments in the United States and competitive pressures, which result in lower cash-based bill payment volumes and a shift to lower revenue per transaction products, continue to impact this business.

We believe the most significant competitive factors in this segment relate to brand recognition, customer
service, trust and reliability, convenience, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings and price.

For additional details regarding our global business payments segment, see Item 7 of Part II and our historical
financial statements and the notes to those statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Other

Our remaining businesses are grouped in the “Other” category, which primarily includes our money orders, which
are sold primarily in the United States and Canada, and our prepaid services.

Customers use our money orders
for making purchases, paying bills, and as an alternative to checks that can be deposited directly into bank accounts or cashed at check cashiers, some banks and some retailers. We derive investment income from interest generated on our money order
settlement assets, which are primarily held in United States tax exempt state and municipal debt securities.

Our prepaid cards are sold primarily in the United States through retail locations and on the Internet. This service
allows consumers to load money or receive a direct deposit onto the card for use at a later date. The card can be used to withdraw money from an ATM or used where debit cards are accepted. We have agreements with depository institutions insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that serve as the issuers of our cards in the United States. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we began offering certain of our prepaid cards in the United Kingdom and began testing in certain European
countries.

Intellectual Property

The Western Union brand, including trademark registrations in many countries, is material to our
Company. The international expansion of our agent network over the past decade has taken the Western Union brand nearly everywhere consumers send and receive money. The loss of the Western Union trademark or a diminution in the perceived quality
associated with the name would harm our growth. We offer money transfer services under the Western Union, Orlandi
ValutaSMor Vigo®brands in more than 200 countries and territories, and various global business payment services under several brands
like Speedpay, Equity Accelerator, Just in Time EFT, Paymap®, Western Union Payments, Quick Collect, Convenience
Pay, Quick Pay, Quick Cash, Pago Fácil (registered in Argentina), Western Union Business Solutions and other trademarks and service marks, such as MoneyWiseTM, that are also important to our Company.

Our operating results over the past several years have allowed us to invest significantly each year to support our
brands. In 2011, we invested approximately $225 million to market, advertise and promote our brands and services, including costs of dedicated marketing personnel. Many of our agents have also contributed significant financial resources to
assist with marketing our services.







We own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our
processes and services. We have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims and suits alleging that our technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others, both in and out of the United States. Unfavorable resolution of these
claims could require us to change how we deliver services, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risk Management

Our Company has a credit risk management department that evaluates and monitors our agent-related credit and fraud risks. We are exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the
money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. We also are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our online services and electronic global business payment channels, where
transactions are originated through means other than cash, and may therefore be subject to “chargebacks,” insufficient funds, or other collection impediments, such as fraud. Our credit risk management team performs a credit review before
each agent signing and conducts periodic analyses. As a result, our losses associated with bad debts have been less than 1% of our annual revenue in each of the last three fiscal years.

We are exposed to credit risk in our Business Solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our
customers and (b) receivables from certain customers for which beneficiaries are paid prior to receiving cleared funds from the customer (known as “early release”). For the derivatives, the duration of these contracts is generally
nine months or less. The credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to
maintain appropriate collateral with us. For early release customers, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. To mitigate risk, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain
customers to post collateral or increase collateral based on the fair value of the customer’s contract and their risk profile.

To manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial
institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions.

A key component of the Western Union business model is our ability to manage financial risk associated with conducting
transactions worldwide. We settle accounts with the majority of our agents in United States dollars or euros. We utilize foreign currency exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts, to mitigate the risks associated with currency fluctuations
and to provide predictability of future cash flows. Limited foreign currency risk arises with respect to the agent settlement process because the majority of money transfer transactions are paid within 24 hours after they are initiated and
agent settlements occur within a few days in most instances.

Our financial results may fluctuate due to
changes in interest rates. We review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, while also considering the duration of the individual positions. We manage this mix of fixed versus
floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. Our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt.
The latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). We use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt,
subject to market conditions.

International Investment

No provision has been made for United States federal and state income taxes on certain of our outside tax basis
differences, which primarily relate to accumulated foreign earnings of approximately $3.7 billion as of December 31, 2011, as we expect to reinvest these earnings outside the United States indefinitely. We intend to







invest these earnings to expand and diversify our global distribution and explore new service offerings and may also consider international acquisition opportunities. In 2011, our foreign cash
allowed us to acquire TGBP and the remaining interests in two of our largest European-based agents, Finint S.r.l. (“Finint”) and Angelo Costa, S.r.l. (“Costa”). However, if we are unable to utilize accumulated earnings outside of
the United States and we repatriate these earnings to the United States in the form of actual or constructive dividends, we would be subject to United States federal income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes
and possible withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries. Such taxes could be significant.

Regulation

We have developed and continue to enhance our global compliance programs, including our anti-money laundering program,
which comprises policies, procedures, systems and internal controls to monitor and to address various legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, we continue to adapt our business practices and strategies to help us comply with current and
evolving legal standards and industry practices. These programs include dedicated compliance personnel, training and monitoring programs, suspicious activity reporting, regulatory outreach and education, and support and guidance to our agent network
on regulatory compliance. Our money transfer network operates through third-party agents in most countries, and, therefore, there are limitations on our legal and practical ability to completely control those agents’ compliance activities.

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act







Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing and Regulation

In the United States, most states license money transfer services providers and many exercise authority over the
operations of our money transfer services and, as part of this authority, regularly examine us. Many states require us to invest the proceeds of money transfers in highly-rated, investment grade securities, and our use of such investments is
restricted to satisfy outstanding settlement obligations. We regularly monitor credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities in compliance with these regulations. The majority of our investment securities,
classified within “Settlement assets” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, are held to comply with state licensing requirements in the United States and had credit ratings of “AA–” or better from a major credit rating agency
as of December 31, 2011.

These licensing laws also cover matters such as government approval of
controlling shareholders and senior management of our licensed entities, regulatory approval of agents and in some instances their locations, consumer disclosures and the filing of periodic reports by the licensee, and require the licensee to
demonstrate and maintain certain net worth levels. Many states also require money transmitters and their agents to comply with federal and/or state anti-money laundering laws and regulations.

Our money transfer and money order services are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank
Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (collectively, the “BSA”) and similar state laws and regulations. The BSA, among other things, requires money transfer companies and the issuers and sellers of money orders, to develop
and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and in some cases, to collect and maintain information about consumers who use their services and maintain other transaction records.
Many states impose similar and, in some cases, more stringent requirements. These requirements also apply to our agents. In addition, the United States Department of the Treasury has interpreted the BSA to require money transfer companies to conduct
due diligence into and risk-based monitoring of their agents inside and outside the United States.

Economic
and trade sanctions programs administered by the United States Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) prohibit or restrict transactions to or from (or dealings with) certain countries, their governments, and
in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with specifically-designated individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. We provide very limited consumer-to-consumer services to individuals
in Cuba, Syria and Sudan pursuant to and as authorized by advisory opinions of, or licenses granted by, OFAC.

Outside of the United States, our money transfer business is subject to some form of regulation in all of the countries
and territories in which we offer those services. These laws and regulations may include limitations on what types of entities may offer money transfer services, limitations on the amount of principal that can be sent into or out of a country,
limitations on the number of money transfers that may be sent or received by a consumer and controls on the rates of exchange between currencies. They may also include laws and regulations intended to help detect and prevent money laundering or
terrorist financing, including reporting requirements similar to those required under the BSA. In most countries, either we or our agents are required to obtain licenses or to register with a government authority in order to offer money transfer
services.

The Payment Services Directive (“PSD”), which became effective on November 1, 2009,
has changed the payments market in the European Union (“EU”), harmonizing the licensing and certain other requirements for offering payment services within the EU. Previously, those requirements differed significantly among these
countries. The PSD, along with similar laws in other jurisdictions, have imposed new rules on payment service providers like Western Union. In particular, Western Union has become responsible for the regulatory compliance of our agents who are
engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries. The majority of our EU business is managed through our PSD subsidiary, which is regulated by Ireland. Thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against us because of the actions of our
agents in those areas has increased. Under the PSD, we are subject to investment safeguarding rules and periodic examinations similar to those we are subject to in the







United States. These rules have resulted in increased compliance costs and may lead to increased competition in our areas of service. Additional countries may adopt legislation similar to these
laws. The PSD, as well as legislation in other countries such as Russia, has also allowed an increased number of non-bank entities to become money transfer agents.

“Western Union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators”

Government agencies both inside and outside the United States may impose
new or additional rules on money transfers affecting us or our agents or their subagents, including regulations that:



•prohibit transactions in, to or from certain countries, governments and individuals and entities;



•impose additional identification, reporting or recordkeeping requirements;



•limit the types of entities capable of providing money transfer services or impose additional licensing or registration requirements;



•impose minimum capital or other financial requirements on us or our agents and their subagents;



•limit or restrict the revenue which may be generated from money transfers, including transaction fees and revenue derived from foreign exchange;



•require enhanced disclosures to our money transfer customers;



•require the principal amount of money transfers originated in a country to be invested in that country or held in trust until they are paid;



•limit the number or principal amount of money transfers which may be sent to or from the jurisdiction, whether by an individual, through one agent
or in aggregate; or



•impose taxes or fees on money transfer transactions.

Unclaimed Property Regulations

Our Company is
subject to unclaimed property laws in the United States and abroad. These laws require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by our Company that has been unclaimed







for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers and money orders. We hold property subject to unclaimed property laws and we have an ongoing program to comply with the laws. We are
subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices.

Privacy and Information Security Regulations

The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of personal information is required to provide our services. These
activities are subject to information security standards, data privacy, data breach and related laws and regulations in the United States and other countries. In the United States, data privacy and data breach laws such as the federal
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and various state laws apply directly to a broad range of financial institutions including money transmitters like Western Union, and indirectly to companies that provide services to those institutions. Many state laws require
us to provide notification to affected individuals, state officers and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a security breach of computer databases or physical documents that contain certain types of non-public personal information and
present a risk for unauthorized use.

The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of personal
information required to provide our services is subject to data privacy laws outside of the United States, such as laws adopted pursuant to the EU’s 95/46 EC Directive of the European Parliament (the “Data Protection Directive”),
Canada’s Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, individual European national laws and data privacy laws of other provinces or countries. In some cases, the laws of a country may be more restrictive than the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and the laws developed to comply with the Data Protection Directive may impose additional duties on companies. Each of these laws may restrict the collection, transfer, processing, storage, use and disclosure of sensitive
personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices and may give individuals certain rights to prevent the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing.

These regulations, laws and industry standards also impose requirements for safeguarding personal information through the
issuance of internal data security standards, controls or guidelines.

In connection with regulatory
requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, Western Union makes information available to certain United States federal and state, as well as certain
foreign government agencies when required by law. In recent years, these agencies have increased their requests for such information from Western Union and other companies (both financial service providers and others), particularly in connection
with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or identity theft. During the same period, there has also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations
intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. These regulatory goals—the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual’s right to
privacy—may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While we believe that Western Union is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly
changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose Western Union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage.

Banking Regulation

We have subsidiaries that
operate under banking licenses granted by the Austrian Financial Market Authority and the Brazilian Central Bank which subject these subsidiaries to Austrian and Brazilian regulations. We are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision
by the New York Department of Financial Services (the “Financial Services Department”), which has regulatory authority over our entity that holds all interests in these subsidiaries, a limited liability investment company organized under
Article XII of the New York Banking Law. An Agreement of Supervision with the Financial Services Department imposes various regulatory requirements including operational limitations, capital requirements, affiliate transaction limitations, and
notice and reporting requirements. Financial Services Department approval is required under the New York Banking Law and the Agreement of Supervision prior to any change in control of the Article XII investment company.







Since these subsidiaries do not operate any banking offices in the United
States and do not conduct business in the United States except as may be incidental to their activities outside the United States, our Company’s affiliation with these subsidiaries does not cause them to be subject to the provisions of the Bank
Holding Company Act in the United States.

Other

Some of our services are subject to card association rules and regulations. For example, an independent standards-setting
organization, the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”) Security Standards Council (including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa Inc. International) developed a set of comprehensive
requirements concerning payment card account security through the transaction process, called the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (“PCI DSS”). All merchants and service providers that store, process and transmit payment card
data are required to comply with PCI DSS as a condition to accepting credit cards. We are subject to annual reviews to ensure compliance with PCI regulations worldwide and are subject to fines if we are found to be non-compliant.

Stored-value services offered by Western Union prepaid services are subject to United States federal and state laws and
regulations, as well as laws and regulations outside of the United States, related to consumer protection, licensing, escheat and money laundering. As we begin offering similar services internationally, those services may be subject to various
country laws. These laws are evolving, and the extent to which they apply to Western Union or its consumers is sometimes unclear. While we are unable to determine the full impact that new laws and changing interpretations may have on these services,
recent history suggests that new rules may, among other things, broaden our liability for the services and increase the scope of the information that we and our agents must collect, maintain and report about consumers.

Employees and Labor

As of January 31, 2012, our businesses employed approximately 8,000 employees, of which approximately 6,000 employees are located outside of the United States.

Available Information

The Western Union Company is a Delaware corporation and its principal executive offices are located at 12500 East Belford Avenue, Englewood, CO, 80112, telephone (866) 405-5012. The Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the “Financial Information” portion of the Company’s web
site, www.westernunion.com, as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with the SEC. The SEC maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically with the
SEC by the Company.







Executive Officers of the Registrant

As of February 24, 2012, our executives consist of the individuals listed below:



NameAgePositionHikmet Ersek51President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorRajesh K. Agrawal46Executive Vice President and President, Western Union Business SolutionsJohn R. Dye52Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryRobin S. Heller46Executive Vice President and Chief Integration OfficerPaula S. Larson49Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerScott T. Scheirman49Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Global OperationsDiane Scott41Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer and President, Western Union VenturesStewart A. Stockdale50Executive Vice President and President, Global Consumer Financial Services

Hikmet Ersekis our President and Chief Executive Officer (from September
2010) and a member of the Company’s Board of Directors (from April 2010). From January 2010 to August 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the Company’s Chief Operating Officer. Prior to January 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the
Company’s Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific Region from December 2008. From September 2006 to December 2008, Mr. Ersek served as the Company’s Executive Vice President and
Managing Director, Europe/Middle East/Africa/South Asia. Prior to September 2006, Mr. Ersek held various positions of increasing responsibility with Western Union. Prior to joining Western Union in September 1999, Mr. Ersek was with GE
Capital specializing in European payment systems and consumer finance.

Rajesh K. Agrawalis our
Executive Vice President (from November 2011) and President, Western Union Business Solutions (from August 2011). Prior to August 2011, Mr. Agrawal served as General Manager, Business Solutions since November 2010, and as Senior Vice President
of Finance for Business Units, from August 2010 to November 2010. Previously, Mr. Agrawal served as Senior Vice President of Finance of the Company’s Europe, Middle East, and Africa and Asia Pacific regions from July 2008 to August 2010,
and as Senior Vice President and Treasurer from August 2006 to May 2008. Mr. Agrawal joined Western Union in 2006.

John R. Dyeis our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to taking this position in November 2011, Mr. Dye was Senior Vice President, Interim General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC”) from July 2011. From July 2007 to July 2011, Mr. Dye served as Senior Vice President, Principal Deputy General Counsel Corporate Affairs, of FHLMC. Prior to
joining FHLMC, Mr. Dye served as Associate General Counsel at Citigroup Inc. from August 1999 to July 2007, and as Senior Vice President and Senior Counsel at Salomon Smith Barney from 1994 to 1999. Prior to that time, Mr. Dye was an
attorney at the law firm of Brown & Wood.

Robin S. Helleris our Executive Vice President and
Chief Integration Officer. Prior to taking this position in January 2012, she was Executive Vice President, Operations and IT since September 2006. From November 2004 to September 2006, she was Senior Vice President, Global Operations for First
Data. From July 2003 to November 2004, Ms. Heller served in a similar capacity with Western Union. Prior to that time, she was Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Operations for Western Union Commercial Services from July 2002 until
June 2003 and Senior Vice President, Operations and Client Management for Integrated Payment Systems Inc. (“IPS”), a First Data subsidiary, from July 2000 until June 2002. Ms. Heller joined First Data in 1988.







Paula S. Larsonis our Executive Vice President and Chief Human
Resources Officer. Prior to taking this position in November 2011, Ms. Larson was Chief Human Resources Officer for Invensys Plc from April 2005 to March 2011. Prior to that time, Ms. Larson held various senior human resources positions at
Eaton Corporation and subsidiaries of General Electric Company.

Scott T. Scheirmanis our Executive
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Global Operations. Mr. Scheirman has been the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since September 2006 and assumed the additional responsibilities of Global Operations in January 2012.
In addition, from June 2011 through November 2011, Mr. Scheirman served as interim Chief Human Resources Officer for the Company. Prior to becoming the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in September 2006, Mr. Scheirman held
a variety of positions with increasing responsibility at First Data, including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Western Union from 1999 to September 2006. Prior to joining First Data in 1992, Mr. Scheirman was with
Ernst & Young LLP.

Diane Scottis our Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer
(from April 2011) and President, Western Union Ventures (from August 2011). Prior to April 2011, Ms. Scott was Senior Vice President, Marketing, Americas since March 2009. From March 2008 to March 2009, Ms. Scott served as Vice President,
Marketing Services, and General Manager, Domestic Money Transfer. From March 2007 to March 2008, Ms. Scott served as Vice President, Domestic Money Transfer and Marketing Services, and from January 2005 to March 2007, she served as Vice
President and General Manager, Domestic Money Transfer. Ms. Scott joined Western Union in 2001.

Stewart A. Stockdaleis our Executive Vice President and President, Global Consumer Financial Services. Prior to
taking this position in April 2011, Mr. Stockdale served as President, Americas and Executive Vice President, Global Cards and Global Key Accounts, from January 2010, and as Executive Vice President and President, Americas from November 2008 to
January 2010. From June 2008 to November 2008, Mr. Stockdale served as Executive Vice President and President, United States and Canada, with Western Union. Prior to joining Western Union in June 2008, Mr. Stockdale served as the President
of Simon Brand Ventures and as Chief Marketing Officer of Simon Property Group since 2002.







