ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



Overview



The Western Union Company (the "Company," "Western Union," "we," "our" or "us") is a leader in global money movement and payment services, providing people and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send money and make payments around the world. The Company was incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of First Data Corporation ("First Data") on February 17, 2006, and on September 29, 2006, First Data distributed all of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a Western Union money transfer agent, as well as its related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to First Data shareholders (the "Spin-off").



The Western Union®brand is globally recognized and represents speed, reliability, trust and convenience. As people move and travel around the world, they are able to use the services of a well-recognized brand to transfer funds. Our Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer service enables people to send money around the world, usually within minutes. As ofDecember 31, 2013, our services were available through a global network of over500,000agent locations inmore than 200 countries and territories, withapproximately 90%of those locations outside of the United States. Each location in our agent network is capable of providing one or more of our services, with the majority offering a Western Union branded service. As ofDecember 31, 2013, approximately 70% of our locations had experienced money transfer activity in the previous 12 months.



We also provide consumers with flexible and convenient options for making one-time or recurring payments in our Consumer-to-Business segment. This segment consists of United States bill payments, Pago Fácil (bill payments in Argentina), and international bill payments.



The Business Solutions segment facilitates payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals. The majority of the segment's business relates to exchanges of currency at the spot rate, which enables customers to make cross-currency payments. In addition, in certain countries, we write foreign currency forward and option contracts for customers to facilitate future payments.



We believe that brand strength, size and reach of our global network, convenience, reliability, and value for the price paid for our customers have been important to the growth of our business. As we continue to seek to meet the needs of our customers for fast, reliable and convenient global money movement and payment services, we are also working to enhance our services and provide our consumer and business clients with access to an expanding portfolio of payment and other financial services and to expand the ways our services can be accessed.



Our Segments



We manage our business around the consumers and businesses we serve and the types of services we offer. Each of our three segments addresses a different combination of consumer groups, distribution networks and services offered. Our segments are Consumer-to-Consumer, Consumer-to-Business and Business Solutions. Businesses not considered part of these segments are categorized as "Other" and include our money order, prepaid and other businesses and services, in addition to costs for the review and closing of acquisitions.













The table below presents the components of our consolidated revenue:

Year Ended December 31,201320122011Consumer-to-Consumer80%81%84%Consumer-to-Business11%11%11%Business Solutions7%6%3%Other2%2%2%100%100%100%



No individual country outside the United States accounted for more than approximately 6% of our consolidated revenue for each of the years endedDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011.



For additional details regarding our Consumer-to-Consumer, Consumer-to-Business and Business Solutions segments, including financial information regarding our international and United States revenues and long-lived assets, see Part II, Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Part II, Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Datain this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



See Part I, Item 1A,Risk Factors,for a discussion of certain risks relating to our foreign operations.



Consumer-to-Consumer Segment



Individual money transfers from one consumer to another are the core of our business, representing80%of our total consolidated revenues for2013. We view our money transfer service as one interconnected global network where a money transfer can be sent from one location to another, around the world, including related transactions that can be initiated in certain countries through websites and account based money transfers. The segment includes five geographic regions whose functions are limited to generating, managing and maintaining agent relationships and localized marketing activities and also includes our online money transfer service conducted through Western Union branded websites ("westernunion.com"). By means of common processes and systems, these regions and westernunion.com create an interconnected network for consumer transactions, thereby constituting one global Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer business and one operating segment.



Although most remittances are sent from one of our agent locations worldwide, in some countries we offer the ability to send money over the Internet or phone using a credit or debit card, or through a withdrawal directly from a consumer's bank account. All agent locations accept cash to initiate a transaction, and some also accept debit cards. We offer consumers several options to receive a money transfer. While the vast majority of transfers are paid in cash at agent locations, in some places we offer payout directly to the receiver's bank account, to a stored-value card, or through the issuance of a money order.



Operations



Our revenue in this segment is derived primarily from transaction fees charged to consumers to transfer money. In money transfers involving different send and receive currencies, we also generate revenue based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the consumer and the rate at which we or our agents are able to acquire the currency.













In a typical money transfer transaction, a consumer goes to one of our agent locations, completes a form specifying, among other things, the name and address of the recipient, and delivers it, along with the principal amount of the money transfer and the fee, to the agent. In some jurisdictions, the agent collects the principal and fees after the presentation of a disclosure that generally identifies the exchange rate and all fees and charges associated with the transaction and the consumer has agreed to the transaction, as described in the disclosure. Certain of these processes are streamlined for our customers who participate in our loyalty programs. The sending agent enters the transaction information into our money transfer system and the funds are made available for payment, usually within minutes. The recipient enters an agent location in the designated receiving area or country, presents identification, where applicable, and is paid the transferred amount. Recipients generally do not pay a fee. However, in limited circumstances, a tax may be imposed by the local government on the receipt of the money transfer, or a fee may be charged by the receiver's institution related to the use of an account. We determine the fee paid by the sender, which generally is based on the principal amount of the transaction and the send and receive locations.



We generally pay our agents a commission based on a percentage of revenue. A commission is usually paid to both the agent that initiated the transaction, the "send agent," and the agent that paid the transaction, the "receive agent." For most agents, the costs of providing the physical infrastructure and staff are typically covered by the agent's primary business (e.g., postal services, banking, check cashing, travel and retail businesses), making the economics of being a Western Union agent attractive. Western Union's global reach and large consumer base allow us to attract agents we believe to be of high quality.



To complement the convenience offered by our network's global physical locations, in certain countries we have also made our services available through other channels, as described below under "Services."



Over 85% of our Consumer-to-Consumer transactions involve at least one non-United States location. No individual country outside the United States accounted for greater than 7% of this segment's revenue during all periods presented.



Services



We offer money transfer services in more than 200 countries and territories. In2013, the substantial majority of our Consumer-to-Consumer transactions were cash money transfers involving our walk-in agent locations around the world. Although demand for in-person, cash money transfers has historically been the strongest, we offer a number of options for sending and receiving funds that provide consumers convenience and choice. The different ways consumers can send or receive money include the following:



Walk-in and telephone money transfer service.The substantial majority of our remittances constitute transactions in which cash is collected by the agent and payment (usually cash) is available for pick-up at another agent location, usually within minutes. In certain countries, we also offer convenience to our consumers to initiate a transaction through the phone using a debit or credit card or through our account based money transfer service, as described below. Additionally, in a few select markets, we offer consumers a lower-priced next day delivery service option for money transfers that do not need to be received within minutes.



Online money transfer service.Western Union branded websites allow consumers to send funds online, including through  mobile devices, generally using a credit or debit card for pay-out at most Western Union branded agent locations around the world. As ofDecember 31, 2013, we were providing online money transfer service through Western Union branded websites in over 20 countries.



Account based money transfer service.We offer services that allow consumers to initiate a money transfer from an account or direct a transfer to be received in an account. These services include allowing consumers to initiate a Western Union money transfer electronically through their bank’s internet banking service or automated teller machines (“ATMs”), without having to visit a physical Western Union agent location. Also, in certain countries, receivers can choose to be paid through credit to their accounts, and in the United States and other countries we provide a "Direct to Bank" service, enabling a consumer to send a transaction from an agent location or our websites into an account in a number of countries.



Money transfer services through electronic channels, which include online, account based, and mobile money transfer, combined were approximately 5% of consolidated revenue for the year endedDecember 31, 2013.













Distribution and Marketing Channels



We offer our Consumer-to-Consumer service to millions of consumers around the world primarily through our global network of third-party agents in most countries and territories, withapproximately 90%of our agent locations being located outside of the United States. Our agents facilitate the global distribution and convenience associated with our brands, which in turn helps create demand for our services and helps us to recruit and retain agents. Western Union agents include large networks such as post offices, banks and retailers, and other established organizations and smaller independent retail locations that provide other consumer products and services. Many of our agents have multiple locations. No individual agent accounted for greater than 10% of the segment's revenue during all periods presented. Our agents know the markets they serve and work with our management to develop business plans for their markets. Many of our agents contribute financial resources to, or otherwise support, our efforts to market the business. Many agents operate in locations that are open outside of traditional banking hours, for example on nights and weekends. Our top 40 agents globally have been with us an average of approximately 17 years and in2013, these long-standing agents were involved in transactions that generated approximately 60% of our Consumer-to-Consumer revenue.



We provide our third-party agents with access to our multi-currency, real-time money transfer processing systems used to originate and pay money transfers. We continue to develop our network around the world to optimize send and receive corridors. Our systems and processes enable our agents to pay money transfers in more than 120 currencies worldwide. Certain of our agents can pay in multiple currencies at a single location. Our agents provide the physical infrastructure and staff required to complete the transfers. Western Union provides central operating functions such as transaction processing, settlement, marketing support and customer relationship management to our agents, as well as compliance training and related support.



Some of our agents outside the United States manage subagents. We refer to these agents as superagents. Although these subagents are under contract with these superagents (and not with Western Union directly), the subagent locations typically have access to similar technology and services as our other agent locations.



Our international agents often customize services as appropriate for their geographic markets. In some markets, individual agents are independently offering specific services such as stored-value card payout options or Direct to Bank service. We market our services to consumers in a number of ways, directly and indirectly through our agent partners, leveraging advertising promotional activities, grassroots and digital advertising, and loyalty programs. Our marketing benefits from feedback from our agents and consumers.



Our marketing strategy includes our customer programs, such as "My WUSM," which are available in a growing number of countries and territories. These programs offer customers faster service at the point-of-sale. Additionally, in certain countries and at westernunion.com, these programs offer reduced transaction fees or cash back; however, such redemption activity has been insignificant to the results of our operations. Customers in these programs generally initiate more transactions and have a higher rate of retention than other customers.



Industry Trends



Trends in the cross-border money transfer business tend to correlate to migration trends, global economic opportunity and related employment levels worldwide. Another significant trend impacting the money transfer industry is increasing regulation. Regulations in the United States and elsewhere focus, in part, on anti-money laundering, anti-terrorist activities and consumer protection. Regulations require money transfer providers, banks and other financial institutions to develop systems to prevent, detect, monitor and report certain transactions. Such regulations increase the costs to provide money transfer services and can make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use money transfer services, either of which could have an adverse effect on money transfer providers' revenues and operating profits. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our business, see the "Regulation" discussion in this section, Part I, Item 1A,Risk Factors,and the "Enhanced Regulatory Compliance" section in Part II, Item 7,Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. In addition, our ability to enter into or maintain exclusive arrangements with our agents has been and may continue to be challenged by both regulators and certain of our current and prospective agents, especially in certain inbound countries.













Competition



We face robust competition in the highly-fragmented Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer industry. We compete with a variety of remittance providers, including:



•Global money transfer providers-Global money transfer providers allow consumers to send money to a wide variety of locations, in both their home countries and abroad.



•Regional money transfer providers- Regional money transfer providers, or "niche" providers, provide the same services as global money transfer providers, but focus on a smaller group of geographic corridors or services within one region, such as North America to the Caribbean, Central or South America, or Western Europe to North Africa.



•Electronic channels- Online money transfer service providers, including certain electronic payment providers, allow consumers to send and receive money electronically using the Internet or through mobile devices. Electronic channels also include digital wallets and digital currencies.



•Banks and postbanks- Banks and postbanks of all sizes compete with us in a number of ways, including bank wire services and card-based services.



•Informal networks- Informal networks enable people to transfer funds without formal mechanisms and often without compliance with government reporting requirements. We believe that such networks comprise a significant share of the market.



•Alternative channels- Alternative channels for sending and receiving money include mail and commercial courier services, and card-based options, such as ATM cards and stored-value cards.



We believe the most significant competitive factors in Consumer-to-Consumer remittances relate to the overall consumer value proposition, including brand recognition, trust and reliability, consumer experience and price, and distribution network and channel options.



Consumer-to-Business Segment



In our Consumer-to-Business segment, which represented11%of our total consolidated revenues for2013, we provide fast and convenient options to make one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers, government agencies and other businesses. We believe our business customers who receive payments through our services benefit from their relationship with Western Union as it provides them with real-time or near real-time posting of their customers' payments. In many circumstances, our relationships with business customers also provide them with an additional source of income, as well as reduced expenses for cash and check handling.



Operations



Our revenue in this segment is derived primarily from transaction fees paid by the consumer. The transaction fees are typically less than the fees charged in our Consumer-to-Consumer segment. Consumers may make a cash payment at an agent or Company-owned location or may make an electronic payment over the phone or on the Internet using their credit or debit card, through the automated clearing house ("ACH") system, or via a wire transfer. Our Internet services are provided through our own websites or in partnership with other websites for which we act as the service provider. In addition, we generate revenue from upfront enrollment fees received for our Equity Accelerator®service, and we earn investment income on funds received from services sold in advance of settlement with payment recipients. The significant majority of the segment's revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented, with the remainder primarily generated in Argentina.













Services



Our Consumer-to-Business payments services are available through a variety of services that give consumers choices as to the payment channel and method of payment, and include the following:



Speedpay®. Our Speedpay service is offered principally in the United States and allows consumers to make payments to a variety of businesses using credit cards, debit cards, ACH and in limited situations, checks. Payments are initiated over the phone or electronically through the Internet. We also partner with some businesses to allow their customers to access Speedpay from their websites.



Pago Fácil®. In South America, we offer walk-in, cash bill payment services which allow consumers to make payments for services such as phone, utilities and other recurring bills. In Argentina, we provide this service under the Pago Fácil brand. We offer this service under the Western Union brand in Peru, Panama and Brazil.



Western Union Payments.The Western Union Payments service allows consumers to send funds to businesses and government agencies, primarily across the United States and Canada, using cash and, in certain locations, a debit card. This service is offered primarily at Western Union agent locations, but is provided via our westernunion.com website in limited situations. This service is also offered in select international locations under the service mark Quick PaySM. We also offer Quick Cash®, a cash disbursement service used by businesses, government agencies, and financial institutions primarily to send money to employees or individuals with whom they have accounts or other business relationships. Consumers also use our Western Union Convenience Pay®("Convenience Pay") service to send payments by cash or check from a smaller number of Convenience Pay agent locations primarily to utilities and telecommunication providers. We are in the process of consolidating all of these services, in addition to our Quick Collect®service, to be marketed as Western Union Payments.



Equity Accelerator.Our Equity Accelerator service enables consumers to make mortgage payments by ACH. It is marketed as a convenient way for homeowners to schedule additional recurring principal payments on their mortgages. Consumers who enroll in this service make mortgage payments based on an accelerated program, which results in a more rapid reduction of their mortgage balance, as well as interest savings.



Distribution and Marketing Channels



Our electronic consumer payment services are available primarily through the phone and online, including through certain mobile devices, while our cash-based consumer services are available through our agent networks and select Company-owned locations, primarily in South America.



Businesses market our services to consumers in a number of ways, and we market our services directly to consumers using a variety of means, including advertising materials, promotional activities, call campaigns and attendance at trade shows and seminars. Our Internet services are marketed to consumers on our websites, on the websites of our partners who offer our payment solutions or through co-branding arrangements with these partners.



We have relationships with over 15,000 consumer payments businesses to which consumers can make payments. These relationships are a core component of our global payments services. On average, we have provided our payment services to our top 20 businesses to which our consumers can make payments for approximately 15 years. No individual consumer or business accounted for greater than 10% of this segment's revenue during all periods presented.



Industry Trends



The global payments industry has evolved with technological innovations that have created new methods of processing payments from consumers to businesses. The various services within the global payments industry are in varying stages of development outside the United States. We believe that the United States is in the midst of a trend away from cash and paper checks for bill payments toward electronic payment methods accessible through multiple technologies.













Competition



Western Union competes with a diverse set of service providers offering both cash and electronic-based payment solutions. Competition in electronic payment services includes financial institutions (which may offer consumer bill payment in their own name or may "host" payment services operated under the names of their clients) and other non-bank competitors. Competition for electronic payments also includes businesses offering their own or third-party services to their own customers and third-party providers of all sizes offering services directly to consumers. In many cases, competitors specialize in a small number of industries. Competitors for cash payments include businesses that allow consumers to pay a bill at one of their locations, or at the location of a partner business, as well as mail and courier services. The ongoing trend away from cash-based bill payments in the United States and competitive pressures, which result in lower cash-based bill payment volumes and a shift to lower revenue per transaction services, continues to impact this business.



We believe the most significant competitive factors in this segment relate to customer service, trust and reliability, convenience, speed, variety of payment methods, biller relationships and service offerings, innovation, price, and brand recognition.



Business Solutions Segment



In our Business Solutions segment, which represented7%of our total consolidated revenues for 2013, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals.



Operations



The substantial majority of our revenue in this segment is derived from foreign exchange revenues, which are based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the customer and the rate at which we are able to acquire the currency. Customers may make an electronic or wire transfer or remit a check in order to initiate a transaction. Our Internet services are provided through our own website and also in partnership with other websites for which we act as the service provider. The significant majority of the segment's revenue was generated outside the United States during all periods presented.



Services



Business Solutions payment transactions are conducted through various channels including the phone and Internet. Payments are made predominately through wire transfers and ACH, but in some situations, checks are remitted. The majority of Business Solutions' business relates to exchanges of currency at the spot rate, which enables customers to make cross-currency payments. In addition, in certain countries, we write foreign currency forward and option contracts for customers to facilitate future payments.



Distribution and Marketing Channels



Our business payment services are primarily offered over the phone, through partner channels, and via the Internet. Our Internet services are marketed through co-branding arrangements with our website partners as well as on our own website.



We have relationships with more than 100,000 customers with respect to our payment solutions. These relationships are a core component of our business payments services. No individual customer accounted for greater than 10% of this segment's revenue since our acquisition of Travelex Global Business Payments ("TGBP") in November 2011.



Industry Trends



The business-to-business payments industry has evolved with technological innovations that have created new methods of processing payments from businesses to other businesses. The various products and services within the business-to-business payments industry are in varying stages of development. We believe that the cross-border payments industry will expand in the future due to the expanding global focus of many businesses. Increased regulation and compliance requirements are trends also impacting the business-to-business payments industry, which will likely result in increased costs in this segment.













Competition



Western Union competes with a diverse set of service providers offering payment services and foreign exchange risk management solutions, including financial institutions and other non-bank competitors. We believe the most significant competitive factors in this segment relate to recurring relationships founded on customer service and expertise in payments and foreign exchange, customized solutions for specific industries and clients, convenience and speed of payments network, availability of derivative products, variety of inbound and outbound payment methods, brand recognition and price.



Other



Our remaining businesses are grouped in the "Other" category, which primarily includes our money order, prepaid and other businesses and services, in addition to costs for the review and closing of acquisitions.



Customers use our money orders for making purchases, paying bills, and as an alternative to checks. We derive investment income from interest generated on our money order settlement assets, which are primarily held in United States tax exempt state and municipal debt securities.



Our prepaid business is now primarily composed of providing reload/top up services for various types of prepaid services including mobile phone and prepaid accounts, including prepaid cards, and partnering with select program managers around the world to launch prepaid accounts that meet varying customer needs. Our prepaid business represented less than 1% of total consolidated revenues for all periods presented.



Intellectual Property



The Western Union logos, trademarks, service marks and trade dress (collectively, "Marks") are registered and/or used worldwide and are material to our Company. The WU®service mark and logos are also registered and used in many countries around the world. The international expansion of our agent network over the past decade has taken the Western Union brand to more than 200 countries and territories. We offer money transfer services under the Western Union, Orlandi ValutaSMand Vigo®brands. We also provide various payment and other services such as Western Union Payments, Quick Collect, Convenience Pay, Quick Pay, Quick Cash, Speedpay, Equity Accelerator, Pago Fácil (registered in Argentina), Western Union Business Solutions and MoneyWiseTM.



Our operating results over the past several years have allowed us to invest significantly each year to support our brands. In2013, we invested approximately $220 million to market, advertise and promote our brands and services, including costs of dedicated marketing personnel. Many of our agents have also contributed significant financial resources to assist with marketing our services.



We own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our processes and services. We have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims and suits alleging that our technology or business methods infringe patents owned by others, both in and out of the United States. Unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver services, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.













Risk Management



Our Company has a credit risk management department that evaluates and monitors our credit and fraud risks. We are exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. We also are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our online services and electronic channels, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to "chargebacks," insufficient funds, or other collection impediments, such as fraud. Our credit risk management team monitors fraud risks jointly with our information security and global compliance departments. Our credit risk management team also performs a credit review before each agent signing and conducts periodic analyses.



We are exposed to credit risk in our Business Solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) receivables from certain customers for which beneficiaries are paid prior to receiving cleared funds from the customer, where we have offered "trade credit." For the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. The credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. For those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. To mitigate risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews of the customer on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral.



To manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions.





Our financial results may fluctuate due to changes in interest rates. We review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. We manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. Our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets, as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. The latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). We use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions.

















International Investment



No provision has been made for United States federal and state income taxes on certain of our outside tax basis differences, which primarily relate to accumulated foreign earnings of approximately $5.0 billion as ofDecember 31, 2013, as we have reinvested and expect to continue to reinvest these earnings outside the United States indefinitely. We intend to invest these earnings to expand and diversify our global distribution and explore new service offerings, and we may also consider international acquisition opportunities. In 2011, our foreign cash allowed us to acquire TGBP and the remaining interests in two of our largest European-based agents, Finint S.r.l. and Angelo Costa, S.r.l. However, if we are unable to utilize accumulated earnings outside of the United States and we repatriate these earnings to the United States in the form of actual or constructive dividends, we would be subject to significant United States federal income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes and possible withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries.



Regulation



Our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the United States federal government, each of the states, many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union. These include an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. These also include laws and regulations regarding: financial services, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. Failure by Western Union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom Western Union has limited legal and practical control) to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer services and/or payment services or foreign exchange products, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services.



We have developed and continue to enhance our global compliance programs, including our anti-money laundering program comprised of policies, procedures, systems and internal controls to monitor and to address various legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, we continue to adapt our business practices and strategies to help us comply with current and evolving legal standards and industry practices, including heightened regulatory focus on compliance with anti-money laundering or fraud prevention requirements. These programs include dedicated compliance personnel, training and monitoring programs, suspicious activity reporting, regulatory outreach and education, and support and guidance to our agent network on regulatory compliance. Our money transfer and payment service networks operate through third-party agents in most countries, and, therefore, there are limitations on our legal and practical ability to completely control those agents' compliance activities. In2013, the Company spent over $150 million on its compliance and regulatory programs, including costs related to our amended settlement agreement with the State of Arizona.



Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing and Regulation



Our money transfer and money order services are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended, including by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (collectively, the "BSA"), and similar state laws and regulations. The BSA, among other things, requires money transfer companies and the issuers and sellers of money orders, to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, to report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and in some cases, to collect and maintain information about consumers who use their services and maintain other transaction records. Many states impose similar and, in some cases, more stringent requirements. These requirements also apply to our agents and their subagents. In addition, the United States Department of the Treasury has interpreted the BSA to require money transfer companies to conduct due diligence into and risk-based monitoring of their agents inside and outside the United States, and certain states also require money transfer companies to conduct due diligence reviews of their agents and subagents. Compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations continues to be a focus of regulatory attention, with agreements being reached with Western Union and several large financial institutions, including another money transfer provider.













Economic and trade sanctions programs administered by the United States Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") and by certain foreign jurisdictions prohibit or restrict transactions to or from (or dealings with) certain countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with specifically-designated individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. We provide very limited money transfer and payments services to individuals in Cuba, Syria and Sudan in accordance with United States laws authorizing such services and pursuant to and as authorized by advisory opinions of, or specific or general licenses granted by, OFAC.



In the United States, most states license money transfer services providers and many exercise authority over the operations of our money transfer services and, as part of this authority, regularly examine us. Many states require us to invest the proceeds of money transfers in highly-rated, investment grade securities, and our use of such investments is restricted to satisfy outstanding settlement obligations. We regularly monitor credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities in compliance with these regulations. The majority of our investment securities, classified within "Settlement assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, are held in order to comply with state licensing requirements in the United States and had credit ratings of "AA-" or better from a major credit rating agency as ofDecember 31, 2013.



These licensing laws also cover matters such as government approval of controlling shareholders and senior management of our licensed entities, regulatory approval of agents and in some instances their locations, consumer disclosures and the filing of periodic reports by the licensee, and require the licensee to demonstrate and maintain certain net worth levels. Many states also require money transfer providers and their agents to comply with federal and/or state anti-money laundering laws and regulations.



Outside of the United States, our money transfer business is subject to some form of regulation in all of the countries and territories in which we offer those services. These laws and regulations may include limitations on what types of entities may offer money transfer services, agent registration requirements, limitations on the amount of principal that can be sent into or out of a country, limitations on the number of money transfers that may be sent or received by a consumer and controls on the rates of exchange between currencies. They also include laws and regulations intended to detect and prevent money laundering or terrorist financing, including obligations to collect and maintain information about consumers, recordkeeping, reporting and due diligence, and supervision of agents and sub-agents similar to and in some cases exceeding those required under the BSA. In most countries, either we or our agents are required to obtain licenses or to register with a government authority in order to offer money transfer services.



The Payment Services Directive ("PSD") in the European Union ("EU") and similar laws in other jurisdictions have imposed rules on payment service providers like Western Union. In particular, Western Union is responsible for the regulatory compliance of our agents and their subagents who are engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries. Thus, the costs to monitor our agents and the risk of adverse regulatory action against us because of the actions of our agents in those areas have increased. The majority of our EU business is managed through our Irish PSD subsidiary, which is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. Under the PSD, we are subject to investment safeguarding rules and periodic examinations similar to those we are subject to in the United States. These rules have resulted in increased compliance costs and may lead to increased competition in our areas of service. Additional countries may adopt legislation similar to these laws. The PSD, as well as legislation in other countries such as Russia, has also allowed an increased number of non-bank entities to become money transfer agents, allowing Western Union and other money transfer providers to expand their agent networks in these countries but also resulting in increased competition.















Regulators worldwide are exercising heightened supervision of money transfer providers and requiring increasing efforts to ensure compliance. As a result, we are experiencing increasing compliance costs related to customer, agent, and subagent due diligence, verification, transaction approval, disclosure, and reporting requirements, along with other requirements that have had and will continue to have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.



Government agencies both inside and outside the United States may impose new or additional rules on money transfers affecting us or our agents or their subagents, including regulations that:



•prohibit transactions in, to or from certain countries or with certain governments, individuals and entities;



•impose additional customer identification and customer, agent, and subagent due diligence requirements;



•impose additional reporting or recordkeeping requirements, or require enhanced transaction monitoring;



•limit the types of entities capable of providing money transfer services, impose additional licensing or registration requirements on us, our agents, or their subagents, or impose additional requirements on us with regard to selection or oversight of our agents or their subagents;



•impose minimum capital or other financial requirements on us or our agents and their subagents;



•limit or restrict the revenue which may be generated from money transfers, including transaction fees and revenue derived from foreign exchange;



•require enhanced disclosures to our money transfer customers;



•require the principal amount of money transfers originated in a country to be invested in that country or held in trust until they are paid;



•limit the number or principal amount of money transfers which may be sent to or from the jurisdiction, whether by an individual, through one agent or in aggregate; or



•impose taxes or fees on money transfer transactions.













Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Other Similar Legislation





Risk Factors

-

"

The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the regulations required by that Act and the actions of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition

.

"



Unclaimed Property Regulations



Our Company is subject to unclaimed property laws in the United States and abroad. These laws require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by our Company that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers and money orders. We hold property subject to unclaimed property laws and we have an ongoing program to comply with the laws. We are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices.













Privacy and Information Security Regulations



We must collect, transfer, disclose, use and store personal information in order to provide our services. These activities are subject to information security standards, data privacy, data breach and related laws and regulations in the United States and other countries. In the United States, data privacy and data breach laws such as the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and various state laws apply directly to a broad range of financial institutions including money transfer providers like Western Union, and indirectly to companies that provide services to or on behalf of those institutions. The United States Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multimillion dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. The FTC and several states have expanded their area of concern to include privacy practices related to mobile applications. Many state laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, state officers and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a security breach of computer databases or physical documents that contain certain types of non-public personal information and present a risk for unauthorized use.



The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of personal information required to provide our services is subject to data privacy laws outside of the United States, such as laws adopted pursuant to the EU's 95/46 EC Directive of the European Parliament (the "Data Protection Directive"), and national and provincial laws throughout the world. In some cases, these laws are more restrictive than the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and impose more stringent duties on companies. These laws, which are not uniform, do one or more of the following: restrict the collection, transfer, processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices and give individuals certain rights to prevent the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing.



These regulations, laws and industry standards also impose requirements for safeguarding personal information through the issuance of internal data security standards, controls or guidelines.



In connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, Western Union makes information available to certain United States federal and state, as well as certain foreign, government agencies when required by law. In recent years, Western Union has experienced increasing data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. During the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. These regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While we believe that Western Union is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose Western Union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage.



Banking Regulation



We have subsidiaries that operate under banking licenses granted by the Austrian Financial Market Authority and the Brazilian Central Bank which subject these subsidiaries to Austrian and Brazilian regulations. We are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the New York State Department of Financial Services (the "Financial Services Department"), which has regulatory authority over our entity that holds all interests in these subsidiaries, a limited liability investment company organized under Article XII of the New York Banking Law. An Agreement of Supervision with the Financial Services Department imposes various regulatory requirements including operational limitations, capital requirements, affiliate transaction limitations, and notice and reporting requirements. Approval is required from the Financial Services Department under New York Banking Law, and from the Austrian Financial Market Authority and the Brazilian Central Bank under Austrian and Brazilian regulations, respectively, prior to certain direct or indirect changes in control of the Article XII investment company and its banking subsidiaries, including a change in control of its ultimate parent, the Company.



Since these subsidiaries do not operate any banking offices in the United States and do not conduct business in the United States except as may be incidental to their activities outside the United States, our Company's affiliation with these subsidiaries does not cause them to be subject to the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act in the United States.













Other



Some of our services are subject to card association rules and regulations. For example, an independent standards-setting organization, the Payment Card Industry ("PCI") Security Standards Council (including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa Inc. International) developed a set of comprehensive requirements concerning payment card account security through the transaction process, called the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"). All merchants and service providers that store, process and transmit payment card data are required to comply with PCI DSS as a condition to accepting credit cards. We are subject to annual reviews to ensure compliance with PCI regulations worldwide and are subject to fines if we are found to be non-compliant.



Stored-value services offered by Western Union are subject to United States federal and state laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations outside of the United States, related to consumer protection, licensing, escheat and money laundering. Similar services that we offer internationally are subject to various country laws. These laws are evolving, and the extent to which they apply to Western Union or its consumers is sometimes unclear. While we are unable to determine the full impact that new laws and changing interpretations may have on these services, recent history suggests that new rules may, among other things, broaden our liability for the services and increase the scope of the information that we and our agents must collect, maintain and report about consumers.



Employees and Labor



As of January 31, 2014, our businesses employed approximately 10,000 employees, of which approximately 8,000 employees are located outside of the United States.



Available Information



The Western Union Company is a Delaware corporation and its principal executive offices are located at 12500 East Belford Avenue, Englewood, CO, 80112, telephone (866) 405-5012. The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the "Investor Relations" portion of the Company's website, www.westernunion.com, as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically with the SEC by the Company.













Executive Officers of the Registrant



As ofFebruary 24, 2014, our executive officers consist of the individuals listed below:



NameAgePositionHikmet Ersek53President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorRajesh K. Agrawal48Executive Vice President, Interim Chief Financial OfficerOdilon Almeida52Executive Vice President and President, Americas and European UnionJohn R. Dye54Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryJean Claude Farah43Executive Vice President and President, Middle East, Africa, APAC, Eastern Europe & CISDiane Scott43Executive Vice President, Chief Product and Marketing OfficerJ. David Thompson47Executive Vice President, Global Operations and Chief Information OfficerRichard L. Williams48Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer



Hikmet Ersekis our President and Chief Executive Officer (from September 2010) and a member of the Company's Board of Directors (from April 2010). From January 2010 to August 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Chief Operating Officer. Prior to January 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific Region from December 2008. From September 2006 to December 2008, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Europe/Middle East/Africa/South Asia. Prior to September 2006, Mr. Ersek held various positions of increasing responsibility with Western Union. Prior to joining Western Union in September 1999, Mr. Ersek was with GE Capital specializing in European payment systems and consumer finance.



Rajesh K. Agrawalis our Executive Vice President (from November 2011) and Interim Chief Financial Officer (from January 2014). Prior to January 2014, Mr. Agrawal was President, Western Union Business Solutions (from August 2011). Prior to August 2011, Mr. Agrawal served as General Manager, Business Solutions from November 2010, and as Senior Vice President of Finance for Business Units, from August 2010 to November 2010. Previously, Mr. Agrawal served as Senior Vice President of Finance of the Company's Europe, Middle East, and Africa and Asia Pacific regions from July 2008 to August 2010, and as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Western Union from June 2006 to May 2008. Mr. Agrawal joined Western Union in 2006.



Odilon Almeidais currently Executive Vice President and President, Americas and European Union. From January 2013 until December 2013, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President and President for the Americas region for Western Union. Mr. Almeida joined Western Union in 2002 and has held roles of increasing responsibility, including Regional Vice President, Southern Cone, Americas from December 2002 to August 2007; Senior Vice President, South America region from January 2008 to December 2010; and Senior Vice President and Managing Director for the Latin America and Caribbean region from December 2010 to December 2012. Prior to joining Western Union, Mr. Almeida worked at FleetBoston Financial, The Coca-Cola Company and Colgate-Palmolive in Brazil, Canada, Mexico and the United States.



John R. Dyeis our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to taking this position in November 2011, Mr. Dye was Senior Vice President, Interim General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("FHLMC") from July 2011. From July 2007 to July 2011, Mr. Dye served as Senior Vice President, Principal Deputy General Counsel Corporate Affairs, of FHLMC. Prior to joining FHLMC, Mr. Dye served as Associate General Counsel at Citigroup Inc. from August 1999 to July 2007, and as Senior Vice President and Senior Counsel at Salomon Smith Barney from 1994 to 1999. Prior to that time, Mr. Dye was an attorney at the law firm of Brown & Wood. Mr. Dye is also Chairman of the Board of the Western Union Foundation.













Jean Claude Farahis currently Executive Vice President and President, Middle East, Africa, APAC, Eastern Europe and CIS. From March 2009 to December 2013, Mr. Farah served as Senior Vice President for the Middle East and Africa region at Western Union. Mr. Farah joined Western Union in 1999 as Marketing Manager, Middle East & North Africa. He has held a variety of progressively responsible positions with the company, including Regional Director from March 2003 to June 2005, Regional Vice President from June 2005 to March 2009 and Senior Vice President for the Middle East, Pakistan and Afghanistan region. Mr. Farah started his career in 1995 with Renault SA. Prior to joining Western Union, he was Area Manager for Orangina Pernod Ricard.



Diane Scottis our Executive Vice President, Chief Product and Marketing Officer. Prior to taking this position in December 2012, Ms. Scott was our Chief Marketing Officer (from April 2011) and President, Western Union Ventures (from August 2011). Prior to April 2011, Ms. Scott was Senior Vice President, Marketing, Americas since March 2009. From March 2008 to March 2009, Ms. Scott served as Vice President, Marketing Services, and General Manager, Domestic Money Transfer. From March 2007 to March 2008, Ms. Scott served as Vice President, Domestic Money Transfer and Marketing Services, and from January 2005 to March 2007, she served as Vice President and General Manager, Domestic Money Transfer. Ms. Scott joined Western Union in 2001. Prior to joining Western Union, Ms. Scott held marketing positions with Izodia plc, US West Communications Inc., and various advertising agencies.



J. David Thompsonis our Executive Vice President, Global Operations (from November 2012) and Chief Information Officer (from April 2012). Prior to April 2012, Mr. Thompson was Group President, Services & Support and Global CIO of Symantec Corporation since January 2008. From February 2006 to January 2008, Mr. Thompson served as Symantec's Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. Prior to joining Symantec, Mr. Thompson was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Oracle Corporation from January 2005 to January 2006. From August 1995 to January 2005, he was Vice President of Services and Chief Information Officer at PeopleSoft, Inc. Mr. Thompson is a director of CoreSite Realty Corporation.



Richard L. Williamsis our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Williams was appointed as our Chief Human Resources Officer in October of 2013 and previously served as Interim Chief Human Resources Officer from March 2013 to October 2013 and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources - Global Consumer Financial Services from June 2011 to October 2013. Mr. Williams joined Western Union in November 2009 as the Vice President of Human Resources for the Americas and Global Cards. Before joining Western Union, Mr. Williams worked for Fullerton Financial Holdings (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings) as its Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates from September 2007 to October 2009. Previously, Mr. Williams spent 17 years (May 1998 to August 2007 and August 1989 to February 1997) with American Express Company.













