10-K


d10k.htm

FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END JANUARY 31, 2002

Form 10-K For Fiscal Year End January 31, 2002

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

Indicate by check mark whether registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes

x

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether Registrant is an accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).

Yes

x

No

o

The aggregate market value of the common equity
held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of August 3, 2002 was approximately $7,135,000,000 based upon the last price reported for such date in the NYSE-Composite transactions.

The number of
shares of the registrant’s Common Stock outstanding as of March 17, 2003 was 889,164,488.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 14, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the “2003 Proxy Statement”) are incorporated into Parts I and
III.

Portions of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as the “2002 Annual Report to Shareholders”) are
incorporated into Parts II and IV.

The Exhibit Index is located on Page 15 hereof.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated herein by reference contain certain
forward-looking statements which reflect our current view with respect to future events and financial performance.  Whenever used, the words “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “may” and
similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.

Any such forward-looking statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties and our future results of operations could differ materially from historical results or current expectations.  Some of these risks are discussed in Item 1 of this report below, and include, without limitation, ongoing competitive
pressures in the apparel industry, risks associated with challenging domestic and international retail environments, changes in the level of consumer spending or preferences in apparel, trade restrictions and political or financial instability in
countries where our goods are manufactured, impact of legal proceedings, and/or other factors that may be described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact
revenues and profitability are difficult to predict.

We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise our forward-looking
statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

PART I

Item 1 – Business

General

We are a global specialty retailer operating stores selling casual apparel, accessories, and personal care products for men, women and children under the Gap, Banana
Republic and Old Navy brands.  We operate stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Japan.  All references to “we,” “our,” “us,” and “the Company” in this Annual
Report mean The Gap, Inc. and its subsidiaries.

We design virtually all of our products, which in turn are manufactured by independent
sources, and sell them under our brands in the following store formats:

As of February 1, 2003, we operated a total of 4,252 store concepts at 3,117 locations.  For more information
on the number of store concepts by brand and country, see our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included as Part II, Item 7 of this form by reference to pages 22 to 30 of our 2002 Annual
Report to Shareholders.

We established Gap Online, a web-based store located at www.gap.com, in 1997.  Products comparable to those
carried in Gap, GapKids and babyGap stores can be purchased on-line.  In addition, a line of maternity apparel is available at Gap Online.  Banana Republic introduced Banana Republic Online, a web-based store located at
www.bananarepublic.com, in 1999, which offers products comparable to those carried in the store collections.  In 2000, we established Old Navy Online, a web-based store located at www.oldnavy.com.  Old Navy Online also offers apparel and
accessories comparable to those carried in the store collections, plus a line of maternity apparel.  Our online businesses are offered as an extension of our store experience and are intended to strengthen our relationship with our customers.

The Company was incorporated in the State of California in July 1969 and was reincorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in
May 1988.

Store Operations

Our stores offer a shopper-friendly
environment with an assortment of casual apparel and accessories which emphasize style, quality and good value.  The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and location of the
store.

Our stores generally are open seven days per week (where permitted by law) and most holidays.  All sales are tendered for
cash, personal checks, debit cards, or credit cards, including Gap, Banana Republic and Old Navy private label credit cards which are issued by a third party.

Merchandise
Vendors

We purchase merchandise from more than 1,000 vendors with facilities in over 50 countries. No vendor accounted for more
than 5% of the dollar amount of our fiscal 2002 purchases.  Of our merchandise sold during fiscal 2002, approximately 5% of all units (representing approximately 3% of total cost) was produced domestically while the remaining 95% of all units
(representing approximately 97% of total cost) was made outside the United States. Approximately 14% of our total merchandise units (representing approximately 17% of total cost) was from China, including Hong Kong, with the remainder coming from
more than 50 other countries.  Any event causing a sudden disruption of imports from China or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 
Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars.

We cannot predict whether any of
the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any
such restrictions.  Trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, and customs restrictions, against apparel items, as well as U.S. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce
the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of
trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions.

Seasonal Business

Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking over a total of about
13 weeks during the Back-to-School (mid-August through early September) and Holiday (November through December) periods.  During fiscal 2002, these periods accounted for approximately 34% of our net sales.


Brand Building

Our ability to continually change
and evolve our brands is a key source of competitive advantage.  We believe our three distinct brands are among our most important assets.  All aspects of brand development from product design and distribution, to marketing, merchandising
and shopping environments are controlled by us.  We continue to invest in the development of our brands through advertising.  We have also made investments to enhance the customer experience through the expansion and remodeling of existing
stores, the closure of under-performing stores, and a focus on customer service.

Advertising

We place print ads in major metropolitan newspapers and their Sunday magazines, major news weeklies and lifestyle and fashion magazines.  Our ads also appear in
various outdoor venues, such as mass transit posters, exterior bus panels, bus shelters and billboards.  We have also run TV ads for Gap and Old Navy and radio ads for Old Navy.  We plan to continue our investments in advertising and
marketing in 2003.  There can be no assurances that these investments will result in increased sales or profitability.

Employees

On February 1, 2003, we had a work force of approximately 169,000 employees, which includes a combination of part and full-time employees.  We hire temporary
employees during the peak Back-to-School and Holiday seasons.

Trademarks and Service Marks

Gap, GapKids, babyGap, GapBody, Banana Republic and Old Navy trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, either have been registered, or are the
subject of pending trademark applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries.

Certain Additional Business Risk
Factors

We must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed.

Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer
demand in a timely manner.  The global specialty retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season.  To the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise, our sales will be
adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results.  A disproportionate part of our past product offerings may have been too fashion-forward for our broad and diverse
customer base.  While we believe our current strategies and initiatives appropriately address these issues, merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our image with our customers and on our operating results.

Our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in
our design, merchandising, marketing and other staff.  Competition for these personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods.

Fluctuations in the global specialty retail business especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, since merchandise usually must be
ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases.  In addition, the cyclical nature of the global specialty retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory,
especially prior to peak selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels.  We must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season.  As a result, we are vulnerable
to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases.  In the past, we did not predict our customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of our fashion items with the same accuracy we had previously
experienced.  In addition, lead


times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing fashion trends or consumer acceptance for our
products.

Our business is highly competitive and depends on consumer spending patterns.

The global specialty retail industry is highly competitive.  We compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains,
independent retail stores and internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise.  We face a variety of competitive challenges including:

Our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions such as the current
recessionary environment, the levels of disposable consumer income, consumer debt, interest rates and consumer confidence. Further declines in consumer spending on apparel and accessories could have an adverse effect on our operating
results.

We are faced with competition in European, Japanese and Canadian markets from established regional and national chains. Our
success in the European market depends on determining a sustainable profit formula to build brand loyalty and gain market share in these especially challenging retail environments.  If international business is not successful, our results of
operations could be adversely affected.

Certain financial information about international operations is set forth under the
heading “Segments” in Note A to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, incorporated by reference in Item 8 – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

We experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales and margins.

Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to further improve sales and margins at our stores.  Our comparable store sales have
fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future.  For example, over the past 2 years, our quarterly comparable store sales have ranged from
decreases of 16% and 12% in the final two fiscal quarters of fiscal 2001 to an increase of 8% in the fourth quarter of 2002.  A variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic
conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions.  These factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ
materially from prior periods and from expectations.  Over the past three years our reported gross margins have ranged from 37% in fiscal 2000 to 30% in fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2002. Any failure to meet the expectations of investors, security
analysts or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline.  Our ability to further improve our comparable store sales results and margins depends
in large part on improving our forecasting of demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base and using more effective pricing
strategies.


Downgrades in our credit ratings may have a negative impact on our financing costs and structure in future
periods.

On February 14, 2002, Moody’s Investors Service reduced our long- and short-term senior unsecured credit ratings from
Baa3 to Ba2 and from Prime-3 to Not Prime, respectively, with a negative outlook on our long-term ratings, and Standard & Poor’s Rating Service reduced our long- and short-term credit ratings from BBB+ to BB+ and from A-2 to B,
respectively, with a stable outlook on our long-term ratings.  On February 27, 2002, Moody’s reduced our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings from Ba2 to Ba3 and stated that its outlook on our long-term ratings was stable. In April
2002, Standard & Poor’s assigned a BBB- rating to our $1.4 billion secured two-year credit facility. On May 9, 2002 and May 24, 2002, the outlook on our credit ratings was changed from stable to negative by Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s, respectively.

As a result of the downgrades in our long-term credit ratings, effective June 15, 2002, the interest rates
payable by us on $700 million of our outstanding notes increased by 175 basis points to 9.90 percent per annum on $200 million of our outstanding notes due in 2005, and to 10.55 percent per annum on $500 million of our outstanding notes due in 2008.
The interest rate payable on the notes is subject to increase by 0.25 percent for each rating category downgrade by either rating agency.  The interest rates payable on these notes is subject to decrease upon upgrades by these rating agencies.
In no event will the interest rate be reduced below the original interest rate payable on the notes.  As a result of the downgrades in our short-term credit ratings, we no longer have meaningful access to commercial paper.  In addition any
future, lowering of the ratings on our debt to result in reduced access to the capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings.

We are planning certain system changes that may disrupt our supply chain.

Our success depends on our ability to continue sourcing merchandise efficiently. We continue to evaluate and are currently implementing modifications to our
information technology systems supporting the product pipeline, including merchandise planning, forecasting, and purchase order, inventory and price management.  Modifications may involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems. 
We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these core systems, including accurately capturing data and supply chain disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging
implementation.  We anticipate that the launch of these successor systems will take place in a phased approach over an approximate five-year period which began in 2002.  There can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these new
systems as planned or that they will occur without supply chain disruptions.  Any resulting supply chain disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operations.

Available
Information

We make available on our website, www.GapInc.com, under “Financials & Media, SEC Filings” free of
charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”).

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Donald G. Fisher is our Chairman.  Paul S. Pressler is our President and Chief Executive Officer.  Donald G. Fisher and Paul S. Pressler are directors. The
required information for each of them is set forth in the table located in the section entitled “Nominees for Election as Directors” of the 2003 Proxy Statement and is incorporated by reference herein.  The following are also
executive officers:

Name, Age, Position and Principal Occupation During Past Five Years:

Charles K. Crovitz

, 49, Executive Vice President, Chief Supply Chain Officer since 2000; Executive Vice President, Supply Chain and Technology from 1998 to 2000; Senior
Vice President of Strategy, Logistics and Information Systems in 1998.  Joined in 1993.


Item 2 – Properties

We operate stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Japan.  The stores operated as of February 1, 2003 aggregated
approximately 37.3 million square feet.  Almost all our stores are leased either on a short term basis with one or more options after our initial term, or slightly longer terms with negotiated sales termination clauses at predetermined sales
thresholds. Economic terms vary by type of location.

As of February 1, 2003, we owned approximately 1.2 million square feet of
headquarters office space located in San Francisco and San Bruno, California.  We leased approximately 1.5 million square feet of headquarters office space, located in San Francisco, San Bruno and Rocklin, California; New York, New York; and
Albuquerque, New Mexico.  Of the 1.5 million square feet of office space leased, approximately 115,000 square feet was under sublease to others and approximately 450,000 square feet was being marketed for sublease to others. We also leased
approximately 25 domestic regional offices and 35 international offices.  We owned approximately 9.5 million square feet of distribution space located in Fresno, California; Edgewood, Maryland; Fishkill, New York; Groveport, Ohio; Gallatin,
Tennessee; Brampton, Ontario, Canada; and Rugby, England.   We leased approximately 2.2 million square feet of distribution space located in Columbus, Ohio and in the Northern Kentucky suburbs outside Cincinnati, Ohio.  A 130,000
square feet distribution warehouse in Funabashi City, Chiba, Japan was owned and operated by a third-party logistics provider.

In fiscal
2002, we recorded certain charges relating to certain facilities.  See Note J to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, incorporated by reference in Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

Item 3 – Legal Proceedings

As a multinational company, we are subject to various
proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims (“Actions”) arising in the ordinary course of our business.  Many of these Actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties.  Actions filed against us
include commercial, intellectual property, customer, and labor and employment related claims, including class action lawsuits in which plaintiffs allege that we violated federal and state wage and hour laws.  The plaintiffs in some Actions seek
unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both.  Actions are in various procedural stages, and some are covered in part by insurance.

We cannot predict with assurance the outcome of Actions brought against us.  Accordingly, adverse settlements or resolutions may occur and negatively impact
earnings in the quarter of settlement or resolution.


However, we do not believe that the outcome of any current Action would have a material adverse effect on our results from operations, liquidity or financial position taken as
a whole.

Item 4 – Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

PART II

Item
5 – Market For Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item
is incorporated herein by reference to page 50 of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the section entitled "Equity Plan Compensation Information" in the 2003 Proxy
Statement.

Item 6 – Selected Financial Data

The information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to pages 20 through 21 of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item
7 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to pages 22 to 30 of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item
7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

The information required by this item is incorporated
herein by reference to pages 30 through 31 of the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 8 – Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to pages 33 through 49 of the 2002
Annual Report to Shareholders included as Exhibit 13 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 9 – Changes In and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

Not applicable.

PART III

Item 10 – Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled “Nominees for Election as Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in the 2003 Proxy Statement.  See also Item
1 above in the section entitled “Executive Officers of the Registrant.”

Item 11 – Executive Compensation

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled “Compensation of Directors,” “Summary of Executive
Compensation,” “Stock Options,” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,” and “Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment and Change in Control Provisions” in the 2003 Proxy
Statement.


Item 12 – Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled “Equity Plan Compensation Information” and
“Beneficial Ownership of Shares” in the 2003 Proxy Statement.

Item 13 – Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled “Other Reportable Transactions” in the 2003 Proxy
Statement.

Item 14 – Controls and Procedures

Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, within 90 days of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Based on such evaluation, they have concluded that as
of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

Changes in Internal Controls

There were no significant changes in our internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their
evaluation.

PART IV

Item 15 – Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules, and Reports on Form
8-K



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


SIGNATURES (con’t.)


CERTIFICATIONS

I, Paul S. Pressler, certify that:


I, Byron Pollitt, certify that:


Exhibit Index






20