Item 1.Business.



The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  Our products are sold in over 150 countries and territories under a number of well-known brand names including: Estée Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Origins, MžAžC, Bobbi Brown, La Mer and Aveda.  We are also the global licensee for fragrances and/or cosmetics sold under brand names such as Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, Michael Kors, Tom Ford, Coach and Tory Burch.  Each brand is distinctly positioned within the market for cosmetics and other beauty products.



We are a pioneer in the cosmetics industry and believe we are a leader in the industry due to the global recognition of our brand names, our leadership in product innovation, our strong position in key geographic markets and the consistently high quality of our products and “High-Touch” services.  We sell our prestige products principally through limited distribution channels to complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty multi-brand retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and spas.  In addition, our products are sold in freestanding stores, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores on cruise ships, in-flight, and duty-free shops, as well as by direct response television (“DRTV”), and certain fragrances are sold in self-select outlets.  We believe that our strategy of pursuing selective distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers, enables our brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and heightens the aspirational quality of our brands.



For a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Overview.”



For segment and geographical area financial information, see“Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 19 – Segment Data and Related Information.”



We have been controlled by the Lauder family since the founding of our Company.  Members of the Lauder family, some of whom are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, as of August 14, 2014, shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock having 86.7% of the outstanding voting power of the Common Stock.



Products



Skin Care- Our broad range of skin care products addresses various skin care needs.  These products include moisturizers, serums, cleansers, toners, body care, exfoliators, acne and oil correctors and sun care products, a number of which are developed for use on particular areas of the body, such as the face or the hands or around the eyes.  Skin care products accounted for approximately 43% of our net sales in fiscal 2014.



Makeup- We manufacture, market and sell a full array of makeup products, including those for the face, eyes, lips and nails.  Many of the products are offered in an extensive array of shades and colors.  We also sell related items such as compacts, brushes and other makeup tools.  Makeup products accounted for approximately 38% of our net sales in fiscal 2014.



Fragrance- We offer a variety of fragrance products.  The fragrances are sold in various forms, including eau de parfum sprays and colognes, as well as lotions, powders, creams, candles and soaps that are based on a particular fragrance.  Fragrance products accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2014.



- 2 -








Hair Care- Hair care products are offered mainly in prestige salons and in freestanding stores as well as some department stores and specialty multi-brand retailers, and include shampoos, conditioners, styling products, treatment, finishing sprays and hair color products.  Hair care products accounted for approximately 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2014.



Other- We also sell ancillary products and services that accounted for less than 1% of our net sales in fiscal 2014.



Given the personal nature of our products and the wide array of consumer preferences and tastes, as well as competition for the attention of consumers, our strategy has been to market and promote our products through distinctive brands seeking to address broad preferences and tastes.  Each brand has a single global image that is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other brands.



Estée Lauder- Estée Lauder brand products, which have been sold since 1946, are technologically advanced, high performance products with a reputation for innovation, style, glamour and superior quality.  Used by women around the world, the broad product line consists of skin care, makeup, and fragrance products that are presented in high quality aspirational packaging.



Aramis and Designer Fragrances- Our Aramis and Designer Fragrances division creates, markets and distributes fragrance and other beauty products, including the following brand names:



·Aramis- We pioneered the marketing of prestige men’s fragrance, grooming and skin care products with the introduction of Aramis products in 1964.

·Tommy Hilfiger- We have an exclusive global license arrangement for a line of men’s and women’s fragrances and cosmetics under the Tommy Hilfiger brand name, which we launched in 1995.  Today, we manufacture and sell a variety of fragrances and ancillary products for men and women.

·Donna Karan Cosmetics- In 1997, we obtained the exclusive global license for a line of fragrances and other cosmetics under the Donna Karan New York and DKNY brand names, including certain products that were originally sold by The Donna Karan Company.  Under this license, fragrances have been expanded to include extensive lines of companion bath and body products.

·Michael Kors- In 2003, we entered into an exclusive global license agreement for fragrances and beauty products under the Michael Kors brand name.  The fragrances, as well as ancillary beauty products, are sold primarily in department stores, specialty multi-brand retailers and freestanding Michael Kors boutiques.

·Coach- In 2006, we began creating fragrances and related bath and body products for Coach which were sold exclusively in Coach stores.  In 2010, we converted the arrangement to a license.  The collection is primarily available in department stores, Coach stores in the United States and Asia/Pacific and online at coach.com.

·Ermenegildo Zegna- In 2011, we entered into an exclusive global license arrangement for fragrance and beauty products under the Ermenegildo Zegna brand name.  We transitioned the five existing fragrances into our portfolio, and have since created a collection of high-end fragrances.  These products are sold in markets across Asia/Pacific, Europe and North America, as well as Ermenegildo Zegna boutiques worldwide.

·Tory Burch- In 2011, we entered into an exclusive license to market, develop and sell beauty products under the Tory Burch brand name.  Our first launch in fiscal 2014 was in North America and we plan to strategically roll out into other markets over the next few years.



Clinique- Introduced in 1968, Clinique skin care and makeup products are all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free and have been designed to address individual skin types and needs.  Clinique also offers select fragrances.  The skin care and makeup products are based on the research and related expertise of leading dermatologists.  Clinique skin care products are generally marketed as part of the 3-Step System: Cleanse, Exfoliate, Moisturize.  Other Clinique skin care products include de-aging solutions to help prevent, halt and diminish the visible effects of sun, wind, stress and pollution and assist in repair to help visibly restore, contour and minimize the look of lines and wrinkles.  Clinique works to develop products and regimens to create great skin at any age.



Lab Series- Lab Series Skincare for Men, introduced in 1987, is a full range of products for cleansing, shaving, treatment and body that is especially formulated to address the unique needs of men’s skin.



Origins- Introduced in 1990, Origins seeks to create high-performance natural skin care products that are “powered by nature and proven by science.”  Origins also sells makeup, fragrance and hair care products, and has a license agreement to develop and sell beauty products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil.



MžAžC- Make-up Art Cosmetics, a leading brand of professional cosmetics, was created in Toronto, Canada in 1984.  We completed our acquisition of MžAžC in 1998.  The brand’s popularity has grown through a tradition of word-of-mouth endorsement from professional makeup artists and journalists, leadership in social media, trend setting through a connection to pop culture and fashion, product innovation and a broad line of color products that appeal to a diverse consumer base.



- 3 -








Bobbi Brown- Acquired in 1995, Bobbi Brown is an exclusive beauty line developed by celebrated makeup artist Bobbi Brown with a focus on service and teaching women to be their own makeup artists.  The Bobbi Brown line includes color cosmetics, skin care, professional makeup brushes and tools, accessories and fragrances.



La Mer- Acquired in 1995, La Mer products primarily consist of high-end moisturizing creams, lotions, serums and other skin care products.  The line, which is available in limited distribution in the United States and many other countries, is an extension of the initial Crème de la Mer product.



Aveda- We acquired the Aveda business in 1997 and since then have acquired select Aveda distributors and retail stores.  Aveda creates high performance, botanically-based products for beauty professionals and consumers while continuously striving to conduct business in an environmentally sustainable manner.  Aveda manufactures innovative plant-based hair care, skin care, makeup and lifestyle products.



Jo Malone- We acquired London-based Jo Malone Limited in 1999.  Jo Malone is known for its unique fragrance portfolio and luxury products for the bath, body and home.



Bumble and bumble- We acquired our initial interest in Bumble and bumble in 2000 and fully acquired the brand in 2006.  The New York-based hair care company creates high-quality hair care and styling products distributed through top-tier salons and select prestige retailers.  Products are stylist- and salon-tested and found backstage at fashion shows, photo shoots, on television and film sets.



Darphin- In 2003, we acquired Laboratoires Darphin, the Paris-based company dedicated to the development, manufacture and marketing of prestige skin care products which are distributed primarily through high-end independent pharmacies and specialty multi-brand retailers.



Tom Ford Beauty- In 2005, we entered into a license agreement to develop and distribute fragrances and other beauty products under the Tom Ford brand name.  In 2006, we introduced Tom Ford Black Orchid, the brand’s first signature fragrance.  We also introduced a full-range luxury cosmetics line in 2011 and a men’s grooming line in 2013.



Smashbox- Founded in 1996 and acquired in 2010, Smashbox Cosmetics is a Los Angeles-based, photo studio-inspired makeup brand with products intended to help consumers create gorgeous looks, whether at a photo shoot or in everyday life.



In addition, we manufacture and sell products under the Prescriptives, FLIRT!, GoodSkin Labs, Ojon and Osiao brands.  We also develop and sell products under a license from Kiton and hold licenses to develop and sell fragrances and other beauty products for the Marni and Aerin brands.



Our heritage brands are Estée Lauder, Aramis and Designer Fragrances, Clinique and Origins.  MžAžC and Bobbi Brown are our makeup artist brands and our luxury brands are La Mer, Jo Malone and Tom Ford Beauty.



Distribution



We sell our products primarily through limited distribution channels to complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels consist primarily of upscale department stores, specialty multi-brand retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and spas.  In addition, our products are sold in company- and distributor-operated freestanding stores, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores on cruise ships, in-flight and duty-free shops, and DRTV, and certain fragrances are sold in self-select outlets.  As is customary in the cosmetics industry, our practice is to accept returns of our products from retailers if properly requested, authorized and approved.



We maintain a dedicated sales force which sells to our retail accounts in North America and in the major overseas markets, and in the travel retail channel.  We have wholly-owned operations in over 50 countries, and a controlling interest in a joint venture that operates in three countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our products.  In certain countries, we sell our products through select local distributors under contractual arrangements designed to protect the image and position of the brands.  In addition, we sell certain products in select domestic and international military locations.  For information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region, see“Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 19 — Segment Data and Related Information.”



As part of our strategy to diversify our distribution, we have been selectively opening new single-brand stores that we or our distributors operate.  The MžAžC, Aveda, Jo Malone and Origins brands have been the primary focus for this method of distribution, and we are expanding to other brands.  We operate approximately 940 freestanding stores and, our distributors operate approximately 370 freestanding stores worldwide.  We expect the number of freestanding stores to increase moderately over the next several years.



- 4 -








We currently sell products from 14 of our brands directly to consumers online through approximately 120 of our own e-commerce and certain of our m-commerce sites.  Additionally, our products are sold on various retailer websites.  Some or all of these brands are sold online in 28 countries including the following: the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Austria, Brazil, Russia, Denmark, Italy, Australia, Korea, China and Japan.



Customers



Our strategy is to build strong relationships with selected retailers globally.  Senior management works with executives of our major retail accounts on a regular basis, and we believe we are viewed as an important supplier to these customers.  Our largest customer, Macy’s Inc., sells products primarily within the United States and accounted for 10% of our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2014 and 11% for fiscal 2013 and 2012, and 11% and 10% of our accounts receivable as of June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively.



Marketing



ž

A

ž

C and Bobbi Brown Makeup Artists.  At in-store counters, consumers are offered a “High-Touch” experience with personal consultations to market individual products as well as to provide education on their use and application.  We conduct extensive sampling programs, and we pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling program.  We believe that the quality and perceived benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to purchases by new and existing consumers.



Our “High-Touch” approach promotes the total value we offer by leveraging our in-person and virtual assets, as well as merchandising and education, to provide a customized consumer experience.  To support this initiative, we continue to expand our online strategy into a multi-pronged digital strategy that encompasses e-commerce, m-commerce, as well as digital and social media.  We have dedicated resources to implement coordinated, brand-enhancing strategies across all online activities to increase our direct access to consumers.  We continue to use the Internet to educate and inform consumers about certain of our brands.  Currently, 16 of our brands have marketing websites.  In order to continue to offer unparalleled service and set the standard for prestige beauty shopping online, we partner with key “brick and mortar” retailers to strengthen their e-commerce business and drive sales of our brands on their websites, continue to innovate to better meet consumer online shopping preferences (e.g., how-to videos, ratings and reviews and mobile phone and tablet applications), and support e-commerce and m-commerce business via digital and social marketing activities designed to build brand equity and consumer engagement.



Most of our creative marketing work is done by in-house creative teams.  The creative staff designs and produces the sales materials, advertisements and packaging for products in each brand.



Global net expenses for advertising, merchandising, sampling, promotion and product development costs were $2,840.0 million, $2,754.8 million and $2,614.5 million in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  These amounts include activities relating to purchase with purchase promotions that are reflected in net sales and cost of sales, and gift with purchase promotions that are reflected in cost of sales.



Information Systems



Information systems support business processes including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution and finance.  We expect that these systems will continue to provide pertinent inventory and sales data in the short term.  As part of our long-term effort to enhance these systems and increase productivity, we continue to implement our Strategic Modernization Initiative (“SMI”), which includes an enterprise-wide global program that we expect will deliver a single set of integrated data, processes and technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize business processes across brands, operating units and sales locations.  As part of SMI, we rolled out the last of our four major waves of SAP-based technologies (“SAP”) in July 2014.  With the July rollout, locations representing approximately 93% of our consolidated net sales are SAP-enabled.  We plan to continue the implementation of SAP at our remaining locations through fiscal 2017.



- 5 -








In parallel with our SAP deployment, we are creating a more focused global information technology organization utilizing industry standard processes, which we expect will benefit, among other things, our demand planning process.  We are also exploring opportunities to create a more efficient organization by rebalancing our information technology resources to better align with our global business growth.  As we continue to modernize our key processes and the related systems and infrastructure, we are developing upgraded capabilities to support our human resource and retail operations.  Our plan is to progressively develop and deploy key systems globally over the next several years.



Of the many systems currently being utilized, the most significant to our business needs are: (i) a centralized data repository of essential attributes for each of the products we offer, or plan to offer, which enables us to globally manufacture and market products of consistent quality; (ii) a sales analysis system to track weekly sales at the stock keeping unit (“SKU”) level at the most significant retail sales locations (i.e. sell-through data), increasing our understanding of consumer preferences and enabling us to coordinate more effectively our product development, manufacturing and marketing strategies; (iii) an automated replenishment system with many of our key domestic customers, allowing us to replenish inventories for individual points of sale automatically, with minimal paperwork; and (iv) an inventory management system that provides us with a global view of finished goods availability relative to forecasted requirements.



Research and Development



We believe that we are an industry leader in the development of new products.  Our research and development group, which includes scientists and other employees involved in product innovation and packaging design and development, works closely with our marketing and product development teams to cultivate ideas, develop new products and product-line extensions, and create new packaging concepts, as well as to improve, redesign or reformulate existing products.  In addition, these research and development personnel provide ongoing technical assistance and know-how to quality and assurance and manufacturing personnel on a worldwide basis, to ensure consistent global standards for our products and to deliver products with attributes that fulfill consumer expectations.  The research and development group has long-standing working relationships with several U.S. and international medical and educational facilities, which supplement internal capabilities.  Members of the research and development group are also responsible for regulatory compliance matters.



During fiscal 2014, we conducted a review of the activities and elements of costs associated with our research and development process as described above.  As a result of our review, we identified certain activities, such as product innovation and packaging design and development, and their related costs that should be categorized as research and development costs, which continue to be recorded in Selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings.  As a result, our research and development costs totaled $157.9 million, $146.8 million and $137.8 million in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  Research and development costs are expensed as incurred.  As of June 30, 2014, we had approximately 700 employees engaged in research and development activities. We maintain research and development programs at certain of our principal facilities and facilities dedicated to performing research and development, see “Item 2. Properties.”



We do not conduct animal testing on our products or ingredients, nor ask others to test on our behalf, except when required by law.



Manufacturing, Warehousing and Raw Materials



We manufacture our products primarily in the United States, Belgium, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada.  We continue to streamline our manufacturing processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase efficiencies, minimize our impact on the environment and reduce costs.  Our major manufacturing facilities operate as “focus” plants that primarily manufacture one category of product (e.g., makeup) for all of the principal brands.  Our plants are modern, and our manufacturing processes are substantially automated.  While we believe that our network of manufacturing facilities and third party manufacturers is sufficient to meet current and reasonably anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue to identify opportunities to make significant improvements in capacity, technology and productivity.  To capitalize on innovation and other supply chain benefits, we continue to utilize a network of third-party manufacturers on a global basis, including an increased percentage of volume in Asia/Pacific to support our growth.



We have established a global distribution network designed to meet the changing demands of our customers while maintaining service levels.  We are continuously evaluating and adjusting this physical distribution network.  We have continued to establish regional distribution centers, including those maintained by third parties, strategically positioned throughout the world in order to facilitate efficient delivery of our products to our customers.



- 6 -








The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are essential oils, alcohols and specialty chemicals.  We also purchase packaging components that are manufactured to our design specifications.  Procurement of materials for all manufacturing facilities is generally made on a global basis through our Global Supplier Relations department.  We have made a concentrated effort in supplier rationalization and continue to review our supplier base with the specific objective of reducing costs, increasing innovation and speed to market and improving quality.  In addition, we continue to focus on supply sourcing within the region of manufacture to allow for improved supply chain efficiencies.  As a result of sourcing initiatives, there is increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe that our portfolio of these suppliers has adequate resources and facilities to overcome most unforeseen interruptions of supply.  In the past, we have been able to obtain an adequate supply of essential raw materials and currently believe we have adequate sources of supply for virtually all components of our products.



We are continually benchmarking the performance of the supply chain and will change suppliers, and adjust our distribution networks and manufacturing footprint based upon the changing needs of the business.  As we integrate acquired brands, we continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities to improve our overall supply chain performance.



Competition



The skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care businesses are characterized by vigorous competition throughout the world.  Brand recognition, quality, performance, availability and price are some of the factors that impact consumers’ choices among competing products and brands.  Advertising, promotion, merchandising, the pace and timing of new product introductions, line extensions and the quality of in-store demonstrations also have a significant impact on consumers’ buying decisions.  With our numerous brands, sold in various channels, we are one of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  We compete against a number of companies, some of which have substantially greater resources than we do.



Our principal competitors consist of large, well-known, multinational manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products, most of which market and sell their products under multiple brand names.  They include, among others, L’Oreal S.A.; Shiseido Company, Ltd.; Beiersdorf AG; LVMH Moët Hennessey Louis Vuitton; Coty, Inc.; The Procter & Gamble Company; Avon Products, Inc.; Chanel S.A.; and Groupe Clarins. We also face competition from a number of independent brands, as well as some retailers that have developed their own beauty brands.  Certain of our competitors also have ownership interests in retailers that are customers of ours.



Trademarks, Patents and Copyrights



We own the trademark rights used in connection with the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of our products both in the United States and in the other principal countries where such products are sold, including Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, MžAžC, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, American Beauty, Flirt!, GoodSkin Labs, grassroots research labs, Ojon, Smashbox, and Osiao, and the names of many of the products sold under these brands.  We are the exclusive worldwide licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and/or related products for Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Kiton, Michael Kors, Tom Ford, Coach, Dr. Andrew Weil, Ermenegildo Zegna, Marni, Aerin and Tory Burch.  For further discussion on license arrangements, including their duration, see“Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – License Arrangements.”  We protect our trademarks in the United States and significant markets worldwide.  We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our business.



A number of our products incorporate patented, patent-pending or proprietary technology.  In addition, several products and packaging for such products are covered by design patents or copyrights.  While we consider these patents and copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be important, no single patent or copyright, or group of patents or copyrights, is considered material to the conduct of our business.



Employees



At June 30, 2014, we had approximately 42,400 full-time employees worldwide (including demonstrators at points of sale who are employed by us), of whom approximately 13,000 are employed in the United States and Canada.  None of our employees in the United States is covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  A limited number of employees outside of the United States are covered by a works council agreement or other syndicate arrangements.



Government Regulation



We and our products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, as well as by various other federal, state, local and international regulatory authorities and the regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are produced or sold.  Such regulations principally relate to the ingredients, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing, advertising, shipment, disposal and safety of our products.  We believe that we are in substantial compliance with such regulations, as well as with applicable federal, state, local and international and other countries’ rules and regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment or that relate to climate change.  There are no significant capital expenditures for environmental control or climate change matters either planned in the current year or expected in the near future.



- 7 -








Seasonality



Our results of operations in total, by region and by product category, are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with net sales in the first half of the fiscal year typically being slightly higher than in the second half of the fiscal year.  The higher net sales in the first half of the fiscal year are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing by retailers for the holiday selling season.  Many of our customers that are retailers follow a 4-4-5 retail calendar which may influence the amount and timing of their order placement and receipt of goods in any fiscal quarter.  In a traditional 4-4-5 retail calendar, each fiscal quarter is comprised of two 4-week periods and one 5-week period, with one extra week in one quarter every seven years.  As a result, our customers’ retail quarter-end and our fiscal quarter-end may be different by up to six days.  Fluctuations in net sales and operating income in total and by geographic region and product category in any fiscal quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product introductions.  Additionally, gross margins and operating expenses are impacted on a quarter-by-quarter basis by variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, including purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.



Availability of Reports



We make available financial information, news releases and other information on our website at www.elcompanies.com.  Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge, via the EDGAR database atwww.sec.govor our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.



Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct



The Board of Directors has developed corporate governance practices to help it fulfill its responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction and oversight of management.  These practices are set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines.  We also have a Code of Conduct (“Code”) applicable to all employees, officers and directors of the Company, including, without limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior financial officers.  These documents and any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to any senior officer or director or material amendment to the Code, if any, may be found in the “Investor Relations” section of our website: www.elcompanies.com within the “Leadership” subsection under the heading “Corporate Governance.”  The charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Board Affairs Committee may be found in “Committees” within “Corporate Governance.”  Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these documents without charge.



Executive Officers



The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our executive officers:



NameAgePosition(s) HeldJohn   Demsey58Group   PresidentFabrizio   Freda56President,   Chief Executive Officer and a DirectorCarl   Haney51Executive   Vice President, Global Research and Development, Corporate Product   Innovation, Package DevelopmentLeonard   A. Lauder81Chairman   Emeritus and a DirectorRonald   S. Lauder70Chairman   of Clinique Laboratories, LLCWilliam   P. Lauder54Executive   Chairman and a DirectorSara   E. Moss67Executive   Vice President and General CounselMichael   O’Hare46Executive   Vice President – Global Human ResourcesGregory   F. Polcer59Executive   Vice President – Global Supply ChainCedric   Prouvé54Group   President – InternationalTracey   T. Travis52Executive   Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerAlexandra   C. Trower49Executive   Vice President – Global Communications



John Demseywas appointed Group President in July 2006.  In this role, he is responsible for the Estée Lauder, M·A·C, Prescriptives, Smashbox, Tom Ford Beauty, Bobbi Brown, Jo Malone, La Mer and Bumble and bumble brands.  In January 2005, Mr. Demsey became Global Brand President of Estée Lauder after serving as President and Managing Director of MžAžC since 1998.  From 1991 to 1998, he held several positions with Estée Lauder, including Senior Vice President of Sales and Education for Estée Lauder USA and Canada.  Before joining us, he worked in sales and marketing for Revlon, Borghese, Alexandra de Markoff Cosmetics, and Lancaster Cosmetics.  He also held various executive retail positions at Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s, Benetton and Saks Fifth Avenue.  Mr. Demsey serves as Chairman of the MžAžC AIDS Fund and is on the Board of Directors of Baccarat S.A.  He was previously on the Board of Directors of The Jones Group Inc. and is active in many cultural organizations.



- 8 -








Fabrizio Fredahas been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 2009.  During such period, he has continued to lead the implementation of our long-term strategy that has resulted in a substantial increase in our market capitalization.  From March 2008 through June 2009, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company where he oversaw the Clinique, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone, Aveda and Bumble and bumble brands and the Aramis and Designer Fragrances division.  He also was responsible for the Company’s International Division, as well as Global Operations, Research and Development, Packaging, Quality Assurance, Merchandise Design, Corporate Store Design and Retail Store Operations.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Freda served in a number of positions of increasing responsibility at The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”), where he was responsible for various operating, marketing and key strategic efforts for over 20 years.  From 2001 through 2007 Mr. Freda was President, Global Snacks, at P&G. Mr. Freda also spent more than a decade in the Health and Beauty Care division at P&G.  From 1986 to 1988 he directed marketing and strategic planning for Gucci SpA.  Mr. Freda is also a member of the Board of Directors of BlackRock, Inc., a global investment manager.



Carl Haneybecame Executive Vice President, Global Research and Development, Corporate Product Innovation, Package Development in January 2012.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Haney was Vice President, R&D Global, Male Grooming, Gillette, Braun and Devices, leading teams in all aspects of innovation, including product, packaging, process development and engineering at The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”) from 2007 through May 2012.  Mr. Haney started his career at P&G in 1984, and over the years held numerous leadership positions in locations around the world.  In 1997, he was promoted to Director, Latin America Beauty Care R&D.  Mr. Haney also held R&D leadership roles for P&G Global Cosmetics and Oral Care and led P&G innovation teams in Latin America, Europe and Asia.



Leonard A. Lauderis Chairman Emeritus and a member of the Board of Directors.  He was Chairman of the Board of Directors from 1995 through June 2009 and served as our Chief Executive Officer from 1982 through 1999 and President from 1972 until 1995.  Mr. Lauder formally joined us in 1958 after serving as an officer in the United States Navy.  Since joining, he has held various positions, including executive officer positions other than those described above.  He is Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of The University of Pennsylvania, a Trustee of The Aspen Institute and the co-founder and Co-Chairman of the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation.  He also served as a member of the White House Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.



Ronald S. Lauderhas served as Chairman of Clinique Laboratories, LLC since returning from government service in 1987 and was Chairman of Estee Lauder International, Inc. from 1987 through 2002.  He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Company from 1968 to 1986 and again from 1988 to July 2009.  Mr. Lauder joined the Company in 1964 and has served in various capacities.  From 1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for European and NATO Affairs.  From 1986 to 1987, he was U.S. Ambassador to Austria.  He is also an Honorary Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art and President of the Neue Galerie.



William P. Lauderis Executive Chairman and, in such role, he is Chairman of the Board of Directors.  He was Chief Executive Officer of the Company from March 2008 through June 2009 and President and Chief Executive Officer from July 2004 through February 2008.  From January 2003 through June 2004, he was Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001 through 2002, he was Group President responsible for the worldwide business of the Clinique and Origins brands and the Company’s retail store and online operations.  From 1998 to 2001, he was President of Clinique Laboratories, LLC.  Prior to 1998, he was President of Origins Natural Resources Inc., and he had been the senior officer of that division since its inception in 1990.  Prior thereto, he served in various positions since joining the Company in 1986.  He is a member of the Board of Directors of Jarden Corporation.  Additionally, within the past five years, Mr. Lauder served as a director of GLG Partners, Inc. and True Temper Sports, Inc.  He also currently serves as Chairman of the Board of the Fresh Air Fund, a member of the Boards of Trustees of The University of Pennsylvania and The Trinity School in New York City, the Boards of Directors of the 92ndStreet Y and the Partnership for New York City, and the Advisory Board of Zelnick Media.



Sara E. Mossis Executive Vice President and General Counsel.  She joined us as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2003 and became Executive Vice President in November 2004.  She was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from 1996 to February 2003, and Senior Litigation Partner for Howard, Smith & Levin (now Covington & Burling) in New York from 1984 to 1996.  Prior to 1984, Ms. Moss served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Criminal Division in the Southern District of New York, was an associate at the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the Honorable Constance Baker Motley, U.S. District Judge in the Southern District of New York.



Michael O’Harejoined the Company in 2013 as Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources.  Previously, he was with Heineken N.V., a global brewer based in the Netherlands, where he served since 2009 as Global Chief Human Resources Officer.  Prior to that, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, a global food and beverage company, where he held a variety of senior roles in Human Resources, including Chief Personnel Officer/Vice President for Asia Pacific.



- 9 -








Gregory F. Polcerbecame Executive Vice President - Global Supply Chain in July 2008.  He is responsible for Global Direct and Indirect Procurement, Manufacturing, Logistics, Quality Assurance and Environmental Affairs and Safety and has shared leadership for Corporate Responsibility.  From 1988 to 2008, he worked for Unilever where he designed and implemented global, regional and local initiatives.  Most recently, from 2006 to 2008, he served as the Senior Vice President, Supply Chain for Unilever where he integrated the North and Latin American Supply Chains, provided senior leadership for all global supply management and established a global outsourcing plan.  He served as Senior Vice President, Supply Chain - North America from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, Home and Personal Care – North America from 2002 to 2004.



Cedric Prouvébecame Group President - International in January 2003.  He is responsible for our International Division, which includes all markets outside of North America, our Travel Retail business worldwide and all of the activities of our sales affiliates and distributor relationships.  From August 2000 through December 2002 he was the General Manager of our Japanese sales affiliate.  From January 1997 to August 2000, he was Vice President, General Manager, Travel Retail.  He started with us in 1994 as General Manager, Travel Retailing - Asia Pacific Region and was given the added responsibility of General Manager of our Singapore affiliate in 1995.  Prior to joining us he worked at L’Oreal in sales and management positions in the Americas and Asia/Pacific.



Tracey T. Travisjoined the Company in August 2012 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Travis had been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Ralph Lauren Corporation since 2005, responsible for Global Finance, Internal Audit, Treasury, Tax, Business Development, Investor Relations and Global Information Technology.  Previously, Ms. Travis was Senior Vice President, Finance of Intimate Brands for Limited Brands, Inc. from 2002 to 2004.  She also spent a decade at PepsiCo Inc. and the Pepsi Bottling Group, where she held operations management and finance roles.  She began her career as an engineer and financial analyst at General Motors Company.  Ms. Travis is a member of the Board of Directors of Campbell Soup Company.



Alexandra C. Trowerbecame Executive Vice President - Global Communications in April 2008.  She directs the Company’s overall communications strategy, overseeing brand communications, corporate communications, internal communications and philanthropic communications.  Before joining us, Ms. Trower was Senior Vice President, Media Relations for Bank of America from July 2003 to March 2008.  From 1997 to 2003, she worked at JPMorgan Chase, where she was responsible for corporate communications at JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management.  From 1987 to 1997, Ms. Trower worked at a former division of Citibank, Chancellor Capital Management (now part of Invesco), where she held a variety of communications roles.  Ms. Trower serves on the Board of Directors of Hollins University.



Each executive officer serves for a one-year term ending at the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors, subject to his or her applicable employment agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.



