Item 1.Business.



The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by
Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one of the world’s leading manufacturers and
marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.  Our products are sold in over 150 countries
and territories under a number of well-known brand names including: Estée
Lauder, Aramis, Clinique, Origins, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer and Aveda.  We are
also the global licensee for fragrances and/or cosmetics sold under brand names
such as Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, Michael Kors, Sean John and Coach.  Each brand is distinctly positioned within
the market for cosmetics and other beauty products.



We are a pioneer in the cosmetics industry and believe
we are a leader in the industry due to the global recognition of our brand
names, our leadership in product innovation, our strong market position in key
geographic markets and the consistently high quality of our products.  We sell our prestige products principally
through limited distribution channels to complement the images associated with
our brands.  These channels, encompassing
over 30,000 points of sale, consist primarily of upscale department stores,
specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and
spas.  In addition, our products are sold
in freestanding company-owned stores and spas, our own and authorized retailer
websites, stores on cruise ships, direct response television (“DRTV”),
in-flight and duty-free shops and certain fragrances are sold in self-select
outlets.  We believe that our strategy of
pursuing limited distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers,
enables our brands to be among the best selling product lines at the stores and
heightens the aspirational quality of our brands.



For a discussion of recent developments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Results of Operations — Overview.”



For segment and geographical area financial
information, see“Item 8. Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data — Note 20 — Segment Data and Related Information.”



We have been controlled by the Lauder family since the
founding of our Company.  Members of the
Lauder family, some of whom are directors, executive officers and/or employees,
beneficially own, directly or indirectly, as of August 13, 2010, shares of
Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock having approximately 87.1% of the
outstanding voting power of the Common Stock.



Products



Skin Care- Our broad range of skin care products addresses various skin care
needs for women and men.  These products
include moisturizers, creams, lotions, cleansers, sun screens and self-tanning
products, a number of which are developed for use on particular areas of the
body, such as the face or the hands or around the eyes.  Skin care products accounted for
approximately 41% of our net sales in fiscal 2010.



Makeup- We manufacture, market and sell a full array of makeup products,
including lipsticks, lip glosses, mascaras, foundations, eyeshadows, nail
polishes and powders.  Many of the
products are offered in an extensive array of shades and colors.  We also sell related items such as compacts,
brushes and other makeup tools.  Makeup
products accounted for approximately 38% of our net sales in fiscal 2010.



Fragrance- We offer a variety of fragrance products for women and men.  The fragrances are sold in various forms,
including eau de parfum sprays and colognes, as well as lotions, powders,
creams and soaps that are based on a particular fragrance.  Fragrance products accounted for approximately
15% of our net sales in fiscal 2010.











Hair Care- Hair care products are offered mainly in salons and in freestanding
retail stores and include hair color and styling products, shampoos,
conditioners and finishing sprays.  In
fiscal 2010, hair care products accounted for approximately 5% of our net
sales.



Given the personal nature of our products and the wide
array of consumer preferences and tastes, as well as competition for the
attention of consumers, our strategy has been to market and promote our
products through distinctive brands seeking to address broad preferences and
tastes.  Each brand has a single global
image that is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and advertising
designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other brands.



Estée Lauder- Estée Lauder brand products, which have been sold since 1946, are
technologically advanced and high performance products with a reputation for
innovation, sophistication, and superior quality.  The broad product line principally consists
of skin care, makeup and fragrance products that are presented in high quality
packaging.



Aramis and Designer Fragrances- Our Aramis and Designer Fragrances division creates, markets and
distributes fragrance and skin care products, including the following brand
names:



·Aramis- We pioneered the marketing
of prestige men’s fragrance, grooming and skin care products with the
introduction of Aramis products in 1964.

·Lab Series- Lab Series Skincare for
Men, introduced in 1987, offers a full range of products for cleansing,
shaving, treatment and body that are especially formulated to answer the unique
needs of men’s skin.

·Tommy Hilfiger- We have an
exclusive global license arrangement for a line of men’s and women’s fragrances
and cosmetics under the Tommy Hilfiger brand name.  We launched the line in 1995 with a men’s
fragrance,tommy. 
Today, we manufacture and sell a variety of fragrances and ancillary
products for men and women.

·Donna Karan Cosmetics-In November 1997, we obtained the exclusive global license
for a line of fragrances and other cosmetics under the Donna Karan New York and
DKNY brand names, including certain products that were originally sold by The
Donna Karan Company.  We launched the
first DKNY women’s fragrance in fiscal 2000 and the first DKNY men’s fragrance
in fiscal 2001.  Under this license,
fragrances have been expanded to include extensive lines of companion bath and
body products.

·Michael Kors- In May 2003, we entered
into an exclusive global license agreement for fragrances and beauty products
under the Michael Kors brand name.  The
fragrances, as well as ancillary bath and body products, are sold primarily in
department stores, specialty stores and freestanding Michael Kors boutiques.

·Sean John Fragrances-
In 2005, we entered into an exclusive license agreement to develop fragrances
and other beauty products under the Sean John brand name.  Sean “Diddy” Combs played an active role in
creating the signature scent, “Unforgivable.” 
The Unforgivable fragrance, as well as other fragrances and ancillary
products, are primarily available at select department and specialty stores as
well as travel retail outlets around the world.

·Missoni- In 2006, we launched
fragrance and ancillary products under our exclusive global licensing
arrangement with Milan-based fashion house, Missoni.  Missoni products are sold in select
distribution channels worldwide.

·Kiton-We have been marketing and selling Kiton
fragrances under an exclusive global license agreement we first signed in
1995.  Kiton is a prestigious Italian
menswear company that combines the traditions of fine Italian tailoring with a
reverence for luxury and elegance.

·Coach- In 2006, we began
creating fragrances and related products for Coach which were sold exclusively
in Coach stores.  In 2010, we converted
the arrangement to a license.  The
collection is available in department stores, Coach stores in the United
States, retail stores in Japan and Hong Kong, and online at coach.com.  We launched the first Coach fragrance in
Spring 2007 which embodies the many personalities of the Coach woman--timeless,
chic and sophisticated.  The signature
fragrance launch has since been followed with ancillary beauty products.



Clinique- First introduced in 1968, Clinique skin care and makeup products are
all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free and have been designed to address
individual skin types and needs.  The
products are based on the research and related expertise of leading
dermatologists.  Clinique skin care
products are generally marketed as part of the 3-Step System: Cleanse,
Exfoliate, Moisturize.  Other Clinique
skin care products include de-aging solutions to help prevent, halt and
diminish the visible effects of sun, wind, stress and pollution and assist in
repair to help visibly restore contour, minimize the look of lines and
wrinkles.  Clinique also offers lines of
fragrances.



Prescriptives- Prescriptives was introduced in 1979 featuring custom color for
women.  In the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we closed the global
wholesale distribution of the brand. 
Select Prescriptives makeup and skin care products remain available for
sale at Prescriptives.com.








Table of
Contents



Origins- Origins was introduced in 1990. 
Origins seeks to create high-performance natural skin care that is “powered
by nature and proven by science.” 
Origins sells its products at our freestanding Origins stores and
through stores-within-stores (which are designed to replicate the Origins store
environment within a department store), at traditional retail counters and in
perfumeries.  Origins also has a license
agreement to develop and sell products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil.



MžAžC- MžAžC
products comprise a broad line of color-oriented, professional cosmetics and
professional makeup tools targeting makeup artists and fashion-conscious
consumers.  The products are sold
primarily through a limited number of department and specialty stores and at
our freestanding MžAžC
stores.  We acquired the companies behind
MžAžC in three stages: in December 1994, March 1997 and February 1998.



Bobbi Brown- Acquired in October 1995, Bobbi Brown is an exclusive beauty line
developed by celebrated makeup artist Bobbi Brown with a focus on service and
teaching women to be their own makeup artists. 
The Bobbi Brown line includes color cosmetics, skin care, professional
makeup brushes and tools, accessories and fragrances.  Bobbi Brown products are primarily sold
through a limited number of department and specialty stores.



La Mer- La Mer products primarily consist of moisturizing creams, lotions,
cleansers, toners and other skin care products. 
The line, which is available in very limited distribution in the United
States and certain other countries, is an extension of the initial Crème de la
Mer product that we acquired in 1995.



Aveda- We acquired the Aveda business in December 1997 and have since
acquired selected Aveda distributors and retail stores.  Aveda, a prestige hair care leader, is a
manufacturer and marketer of plant-based hair care, skin care, makeup and
fragrance products.  We sell Aveda
products to third-party distributors, prestige salons and spas, cosmetology
schools and Aveda Experience Centers, certain non-U.S. department stores and
specialty retailers and directly to consumers at our freestanding Aveda
Experience Centers and certain Aveda Institutes.



Jo Malone- We acquired London-based Jo Malone Limited in October 1999.  Jo Malone is known for its unique fragrance
portfolio and luxury products for the bath, body and home.  Products are also available through a company
catalogue, at our freestanding stores and at a very limited group of specialty
stores, primarily in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom.



Bumble and bumble- In September 2006, we acquired the then-outstanding minority equity
interest in Bumble and bumble.  We
acquired a controlling majority equity interest in June 2000.  Bumble and bumble is a New York-based hair
care company with two salons that creates high-quality hair care and styling
products distributed through top-tier salons and select prestige
retailers.  We also provide business and
hair design education to the Bumble and bumble network of independent salons.



Darphin- In April 2003, we acquired Laboratoires Darphin, the Paris-based
company dedicated to the development, manufacture and marketing of prestige
skin care products which are distributed primarily through high-end independent
pharmacies and specialty stores.



BeautyBank- BeautyBank is our entrepreneurial think tank division whose mission is
to develop brands and products for consumers shopping outside of the
traditional department store channel on a worldwide basis.  Brands developed under the BeautyBank
umbrella include:



·American Beauty- Launched in 2004,
the luxurious fragrance, makeup and advanced skin care line celebrates the
beauty of American style.  These
products, which are sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, have been developed to meet the needs of the modern American woman,
with a straightforward makeup and skin care appeal.

·Flirt!-Launched
in 2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s Department Stores and
Kohls.com, this makeup line is all about experimenting with color, pop culture
and trends.

·GoodSkin Labs-Launched
initially as Good Skin™ in 2004 and sold in the United States at Kohl’s
Department Stores and Kohls.com, this line of skin care products was created
with the expertise of a dermatologist. 
Select products of this brand are now available in a number of countries
around the world.

·grassroots research labs -Introduced
in March 2008, grassroots research labs uses natural ingredients to develop
products that are “Pure, powerful and effective.”

·Daisy Fuentes- In early fiscal
2007, we launched Dianoche, the first fragrance under our license agreement
with Daisy Fuentes, which holds two scents that connect in a single
bottle.  Dianoche, as well as other
fragrances and ancillary products, are available exclusively at Kohl’s
Department Stores and at Kohls.com.



Tom Ford Beauty- In 2006, we entered into a license agreement to develop and distribute
fragrances and other beauty products under the Tom Ford brand name.  In fiscal 2007, we introduced Tom Ford Black
Orchid, his first signature fragrance. 
Tom Ford products are available in department stores, perfumeries, pharmacies
and select Tom Ford retail stores.








Table of
Contents



Ojon- In 2007, we acquired Ojon Corporation, a company based in Canada
which markets naturally-derived, wildcrafted hair and skin care beauty products
using ingredients found in the world’s rainforests.  Ojon products are sold through direct
response television and specialty stores.



Smashbox- In July 2010, we acquired Smashbox Beauty Cosmetics, a privately
held, photo studio inspired prestige cosmetics company based in Los
Angeles.  Smashbox sells its products
principally in the United States through specialty stores and the Internet, as
well as internationally through distributors and select retailers.



Our heritage brands are Estée Lauder, Aramis and
Designer Fragrances, Clinique, Prescriptives and Origins.  MžAžC
and Bobbi Brown are our makeup artist brands.



Distribution



We sell our products principally through limited
distribution channels to complement the images associated with our brands.  These channels include more than 30,000
points of sale in over 150 countries and territories and consist primarily of
upscale department stores, specialty retailers, upscale perfumeries and
pharmacies and prestige salons and spas. 
In addition, our products are sold in freestanding company-owned stores
and spas, our own and authorized retailer websites, stores on cruise ships,
DRTV, in-flight and duty-free shops and certain fragrances are sold in
self-select outlets.



We maintain a dedicated sales force which sells to our
retail accounts in North America and in the major overseas markets, such as
Western Europe and Japan.  We have
wholly-owned operations in over 40 countries, and a controlling interest in a
joint venture that operates in three countries, through which we market, sell
and distribute our products.  In certain
countries, we sell our products through selected local distributors under
contractual arrangements designed to protect the image and position of the
brands.  In addition, we sell certain
products in select domestic and international military locations.  For
information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region,
see“Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data — Note 20 — Segment Data and Related Information.”



We sell Aveda products principally to independent
salons and spas, cosmetology schools, third-party distributors and specialty
retailers and directly to consumers at our freestanding Aveda Experience
Centers and certain Aveda Institutes. 
There are currently about 7,700 points of sale, primarily in the United
States, that sell Aveda products.  Bumble
and bumble products are principally sold to about 2,300 independent salons,
primarily in the United States.  Darphin
products are principally sold through high-end independent pharmacies,
principally in Europe, representing approximately 3,000 points of sale.



As part of our strategy to diversify our distribution,
we have been selectively opening new single-brand, freestanding stores that we
operate.  The Origins, Aveda and MžAžC
brands are the primary focus for this method of distribution.  At this time, we operate over 600
single-brand, freestanding stores worldwide, the majority of which are in the
United States, and expect that number to increase moderately over the next
several years.  We also operate over 100
multi-brand stores.



We sell American Beauty, Flirt!, GoodSkin Labs,
grassroots research labs and Daisy Fuentes in approximately 1,100 Kohl’s
Department Stores in the United States.



We currently sell products from 16 of our brands
directly to consumers over the Internet through our own e-commerce sites.  Some or all of these brands are sold over the
Internet in the following countries: the United States, Canada, the United
Kingdom, France, Germany, Australia, Korea, China, and Japan.



As is customary in the cosmetics industry, our
practice is to accept returns of our products from retailers if properly
requested, authorized and approved.  In
accepting returns, we typically provide a credit to the retailer against
accounts receivable from that retailer. 
In recognition of this practice, and in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, we report revenues on a net sales basis, which
reflects the amount of actual returns received and an amount established for
anticipated returns.  As a percentage of
gross sales, returns were 4.3%, 4.4% and 4.4% in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.



Customers



Our strategy is to build strong relationships with
selected retailers globally.  Senior
management works with executives of our major retail accounts on a regular
basis and we believe we are viewed as an important supplier to these
customers.  Our largest customer, Macy’s
Inc., sells products primarily within the United States and accounted for 11%,
12% and 12% of our consolidated net sales for the years ended June 30, 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively, and 11% of our accounts receivable as of June 30,
2010 and 2009.








Table of
Contents



Marketing



ž

A

ž

C
and Bobbi Brown Makeup Artists.  At
in-store counters, demonstrators offer consumers a “High-Touch” experience with
personal demonstrations to market individual products as well as to provide
education on basic skin care and makeup application.  We conduct extensive sampling programs and we
pioneered gift with purchase as a sampling program.  We believe that the quality and perceived
benefits of sample products have been effective inducements to purchases by new
and existing consumers.



Our High-Touch approach promotes the total value we
offer, by leveraging our in-person and virtual assets, as well as merchandising
and education, to provide a customized consumer experience.  To support this initiative, we are expanding
our efforts to evolve our e-commerce-based online strategy into a multi-pronged
digital strategy encompassing e-commerce, as well as digital and social media.  We have dedicated resources to implement
coordinated, brand-enhancing strategies across all online activities.  We use the Internet to educate and inform
consumers about certain of our brands. 
Currently, 18 of our brands have marketing sites, 16 of which have
e-commerce capabilities.  In order to
continue to offer unparalleled customer service and set the standard for
prestige beauty shopping online, we partner with key “brick and mortar”
retailers to strengthen their e-commerce business and drive sales of our brands
on their sites, continue to innovate to better meet consumer online shopping
preferences (e.g., Spanish language sites in the United States and mobile phone
transactions), and support e-commerce business via digital and social marketing
activities designed to build brand equity and consumer engagement.



Most of our creative marketing work is done by
in-house creative teams.  The creative
staff designs and produces the sales materials, advertisements and packaging
for products in each brand.



Global net expenses for advertising, merchandising, sampling,
promotion and product development costs were $2,015.9 million, $1,878.8 million
and $2,034.6 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  These amounts include activities relating to
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions that are reflected in
net sales and cost of sales.



Information Systems



Information systems support business processes
including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production,
distribution and finance.  Of the many
systems currently being utilized, the most significant to our business needs
are: (i) a centralized data repository of essential attributes for each of
the products we offer, or plan to offer, which enables us to globally
manufacture and market products of consistent quality; (ii) a sales
analysis system to track weekly sales at the stock keeping unit (“SKU”) level
at most significant retail sales locations (i.e., sell-through data),
increasing our understanding of consumer preferences and enabling us to
coordinate more effectively our product development, manufacturing and
marketing strategies; (iii) an automated replenishment system with many of
our key domestic customers, allowing us to replenish inventories for individual
points of sale automatically, with minimal paperwork; and (iv) an
inventory management system to provide us with a global view of finished goods
availability relative to actual requirements.



We expect that these systems will continue to provide
pertinent inventory and sales data in the short term.  However, as part of our long-term effort to
enhance these systems and increase productivity, we are implementing our
Strategic Modernization Initiative (“SMI”), which includes an enterprise-wide
global program that we expect will deliver a single set of integrated data,
processes and technologies, which would be scalable and used to standardize
business processes across brands, operating units and sales affiliates.  As part of SMI, we anticipate the continued
migration of our operations to SAP, with the majority of our locations being
implemented through fiscal 2012.



In parallel with our SAP deployment, we are creating a
more focused global information technology organization utilizing industry
standard processes.  We are also taking
this opportunity to rebalance our information technology resources to better
align with our global business growth. 
We plan to continue to explore opportunities to create a more efficient
organization.








Table of
Contents



Research and Development



We believe that we are an industry leader in the
development of new products.  Marketing, product development and packaging
groups work with our research and development group to identify shifts in
consumer preferences, develop new products and improve, redesign or reformulate
existing products.  In addition, research and development personnel work
closely with quality assurance and manufacturing personnel on a worldwide basis
to provide ongoing technical assistance and know-how, to ensure consistent
global standards for our products and to deliver products with attributes that
fulfill consumer expectations.  The
research and development group has long-standing working relationships with
several U.S. and international medical and educational facilities, which
supplement internal capabilities.  Members of the group are also
responsible for regulatory compliance matters.



We do not conduct animal testing on our products or
ingredients, nor ask others to test on our behalf, except when required by
law.  We evaluate our finished products
in clinical tests on volunteer panels.



As of June 30, 2010, we had approximately 440
employees engaged in research and development.  Research and development
expenditures totaled $79.5 million, $81.6 million and $80.9 million in
fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  We maintain research and
development programs at certain of our principal facilities, see “Item 2. Properties.”



Manufacturing, Warehousing and Raw Materials



We manufacture our products primarily in the United
States, Belgium, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada.  We continue to streamline our manufacturing
processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase
efficiencies and reduce costs.  Our major
manufacturing facilities operate as “focus” plants that primarily manufacture
one type of product (e.g., lipsticks) for all of the principal brands.  Our plants are modern and our manufacturing
processes are substantially automated. 
While we believe that our manufacturing facilities are sufficient to
meet current and reasonably anticipated manufacturing requirements, we continue
to identify opportunities to make significant improvements in capacity and
productivity.  To capitalize on
innovation and other supply chain benefits, we continue to utilize third
parties on a global basis for finished goods production, including an increased
percentage of volume in Asia/Pacific to support our growth.



We have established a global distribution network
designed to meet the changing demands of our customers while maintaining
service levels.  We are continuously
evaluating and restructuring this physical distribution network.  We have begun to establish regional
distribution centers strategically positioned throughout the world in order to
facilitate efficient delivery of our products to our customers.



The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of
our products are essential oils, alcohol and specialty chemicals.  We also purchase packaging components that
are manufactured to our design specifications. 
Procurement of materials for all manufacturing facilities is generally made
on a global basis through our Global Supplier Relations department.  We are making a concentrated effort in
supplier rationalization with the specific objective of reducing costs,
increasing innovation and speed to market and improving quality.  In addition, we continue to focus on supply
sourcing within the region of manufacture to allow for improved supply chain
efficiencies.  As a result of sourcing
initiatives, there is increased dependency on certain suppliers, but we believe
that our portfolio of these suppliers has adequate resources and facilities to
overcome any unforeseen interruption of supply. 
In the past, we have been able to obtain an adequate supply of essential
raw materials and currently believe we have adequate sources of supply for
virtually all components of our products.



We are continually benchmarking the performance of the
supply chain and will change suppliers, and adjust our distribution networks
and manufacturing footprint based upon the changing needs of the business.  As we integrate acquired brands, we continually
seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities to improve
our overall supply chain performance.



Competition



The skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care
businesses are characterized by vigorous competition throughout the world.  Brand recognition, quality, performance and
price have a significant impact on consumers’ choices among competing products
and brands.  Advertising, promotion,
merchandising, the pace and timing of new product introductions, line
extensions and the quality of in-store demonstrations also have a significant
impact on consumers’ buying decisions. 
With our numerous brands, sold in various channels, we are one of the
world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and
hair care products.  We compete against a
number of companies, some of which have substantially greater resources than we
do.



Our principal competitors consist of large,
well-known, multinational manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup,
fragrance and hair care products, most of which market and sell their products
under multiple brand names.  They
include, among others, L’Oreal S.A.; Shiseido Company, Ltd.; LVMH Moët
Hennessey Louis Vuitton; Coty, Inc.; The Procter & Gamble
Company; and Avon Products, Inc.  We
also face competition from a number of independent brands, as well as some
retailers that have developed their own beauty brands.  Certain of our competitors also have
ownership interests in retailers that are customers of ours.








Table of
Contents



Trademarks, Patents and Copyrights



The trademarks used in our business include the brand
names Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, Tommy
Hilfiger, Donna Karan, DKNY, MžAžC,
Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Michael
Kors, American Beauty, Flirt!, Good Skin Labs, grassroots research labs, Ojon,
Smashbox and the names of many of the products sold under these brands.  We own the material trademark rights used in
connection with the manufacturing, marketing and distribution of most of our
major products both in the United States and in the other principal countries
where such products are sold.  We are the
exclusive worldwide licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and/or related products
for Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Kiton, Michael Kors, Sean John,
Missoni, Daisy Fuentes, Tom Ford and Coach. 
Origins sells products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil.  For further discussion on license
arrangements, including their duration, see“Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data — Note 2 — Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies — License Arrangments.” 
We protect our trademarks for our principal products in the United
States and significant markets worldwide. 
We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our
business.



A number of our products incorporate patented,
patent-pending or proprietary technology in formulations or packaging.  In addition, several products are covered by
design patents, patent applications or copyrights.  While we consider these patents and
copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be important, no single patent or
copyright, or group of patents or copyrights, is considered material to the
conduct of our business.



Employees



At June 30, 2010, we had approximately 31,200
full-time employees worldwide (including certain demonstrators at points of
sale who are employed by us), of whom approximately 11,900 are employed in the
United States and Canada.  None of our
employees in the United States is covered by a collective bargaining
agreement.  In certain other countries, a
limited number of employees are covered by a works council agreement or other
syndicate arrangements.  We believe that
relations with our employees are good. 
We have never encountered a material strike or work stoppage in the
United States or in any other country where we have a significant number of
employees.



Government Regulation



We and our products are subject to regulation by the
Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission in the United
States, as well as by various other Federal, state, local and international
regulatory authorities and the regulatory authorities in the countries in which
our products are produced or sold.  Such
regulations principally relate to the ingredients, labeling, packaging and
marketing of our products.  We believe
that we are in substantial compliance with such regulations, as well as with
applicable Federal, state, local and international and other countries’ rules and
regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment
or that relate to climate change.  There
are no significant capital expenditures for environmental control or climate
change matters either planned in the current year or expected in the near
future.



Seasonality



Our results of operations in total, by region and by
product category, are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with net sales in the
first half of the fiscal year typically being slightly higher than in the
second half of the fiscal year.  The
higher net sales in the first half of the fiscal year are attributable to the
increased levels of purchasing by retailers for the holiday selling season and
for fall fashion makeup introductions. 
Many of our customers that are retailers follow a 4-4-5 retail calendar
which may influence the amount and timing of their order placement and receipt
of goods in any fiscal quarter.  In a
traditional 4-4-5 retail calendar, each fiscal quarter is comprised of two
4-week periods and one 5-week period, with one extra week in one quarter every
seven years.  As a result, the retail
quarter-end and the fiscal quarter-end may be different by up to six days.  Fluctuations in net sales and operating
income in total and by geographic region and product category in any fiscal
quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product
introductions.  Additionally, gross
margins and operating expenses are impacted on a quarter-by-quarter basis by
variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, including
purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.



Availability of Reports



We make available financial information, news releases
and other information on our website at www.elcompanies.com.  There is a direct link from the website to
our Securities and Exchange Commission filings via the EDGAR database at
www.sec.gov, where our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge as soon as reasonably
practicable after we file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to,
the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these
reports without charge.








Table of
Contents



Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct



The Board of Directors has developed corporate
governance practices to help it fulfill its responsibilities to stockholders in
providing general direction and oversight of management.  These practices
are set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines.  We also have a Code
of Conduct (“Code”) applicable to all employees, officers and directors of the
Company, including, without limitation, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief
Financial Officer and other senior financial officers.  These documents,
the charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and
Board Affairs Committee, and any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to
any senior officer or director or material amendment to the Code, if any, may
be found in the “Investors” section of our website: www.elcompanies.com
under the heading “Corporate Governance.” 
Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue,
New York, New York 10153 or call 800-308-2334 to obtain a hard copy of these
documents without charge.



Executive Officers



The following table sets forth certain information
with respect to our executive officers:



NameAgePosition(s) HeldJohn Demsey54Group PresidentAmy DiGeso58Executive Vice President — Global Human ResourcesFabrizio Freda52President, Chief Executive Officer and a DirectorHarvey Gedeon67Executive Vice President — Research &
  Development and Product InnovationRichard W. Kunes57Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerEvelyn H. Lauder74Senior Corporate Vice PresidentLeonard A. Lauder77Chairman Emeritus and a DirectorRonald S. Lauder66Chairman of Clinique Laboratories, LLCWilliam P. Lauder50Executive Chairman and a DirectorSara E. Moss63Executive Vice President and General CounselGregory F. Polcer55Executive Vice President — Global Supply ChainCedric Prouvé50Group President — InternationalAlexandra C. Trower46Executive Vice President — Global Communications



John Demseywas appointed Group President in July 2006.  In this role, he
is currently responsible for the Estée Lauder, M·A·C, Prescriptives, Smashbox,
Tom Ford Beauty, Bobbi Brown, Jo Malone and La Mer brands.  In January 2005,
Mr. Demsey became Global Brand President of Estée Lauder after serving as
President and Managing Director of M×A×C since
1998.  From 1991 to 1998, he held several positions with Estée Lauder,
including Senior Vice President of Sales and Education for Estée Lauder USA and
Canada.  Before joining us, he worked in sales and marketing for Revlon,
Borghese, Alexandra de Markoff Cosmetics, and Lancaster Cosmetics.  He
also held various executive retail positions at Bloomingdale’s, Macy’s,
Benetton and Saks Fifth Avenue.  Mr. Demsey serves as Chairman of the
M×A×C AIDS Fund and is active in many other AIDS-related organizations.



Amy DiGesobecame Executive Vice President - Global Human Resources in May 2006. 
From May 2005, when she joined us, to May 2006 she was Senior Vice
President - Global Human Resources.  She was Senior Partner - Global Human
Resource in charge of the Human Resources Department at PriceWaterhouseCoopers
LLP from May 2001 through June 2003.  From April 1999
through April 2001, Ms. DiGeso was President of the Popular Club
Plan, a direct sales subsidiary of Federated Department Stores, and from May 1992
through December 1998, she served in various executive capacities at Mary
Kay, Inc., including Chief Executive Officer from November 1996
through December 1998.  Since June 2003, Ms. DiGeso has
been engaged in various philanthropic activities.



Fabrizio Fredais President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  From March 2008 through June 2009,
he was President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company where he was
instrumental in designing the Company’s long-term strategic plan and oversaw
Clinique, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Jo Malone, Aveda, Bumble and bumble and the
Aramis and Designer Fragrances Division. 
He also was responsible for the Company’s International Division, as
well as Global Operations, Research and Development, Packaging, Quality
Assurance, Merchandise Design, Corporate Store Design and Retail Store
Operations.  Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Freda served in a number of positions of increasing
responsibility at The Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”), where he
was responsible for various operating, marketing and key strategic efforts for
over 20 years.  From 2001 through 2007 Mr. Freda
was President, Global Snacks, at P&G. Mr. Freda also spent more than a
decade in the Health and Beauty Care division at P&G.  From 1986 to 1988 he directed marketing and
strategic planning for Gucci SpA.



Harvey Gedeonbecame Executive Vice President - Research and Development in July 2004
and added responsibilities for Corporate Product Innovation in 2007 and Package
Development in 2008.  From January 2000 to July 2004, he was
Senior Vice President - Research and Development.  Prior to joining us in January 2000,
Mr. Gedeon was Executive Vice President and General Manager, Research and
Development and Quality Assurance for Revlon, Inc. from 1997 through 1999.








Table of
Contents



Richard W. Kunesbecame Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2004. 
Prior thereto, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since October 2000. 
He joined us in 1986 and served in various finance-related positions until November 1993,
when he was named Vice President — Operations Finance Worldwide.  From January 1998
through September 2000, Mr. Kunes was Vice President — Financial
Administration and Corporate Controller.  Prior to joining us, he held
finance and controller positions at the Colgate-Palmolive Company.



Evelyn H. Lauderhas been Senior Corporate Vice President since 1989, and previously
served as Vice President and in other executive capacities since first joining
us in 1959 as Education Director.  She is a member of the Board of
Overseers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, a member of the Boards of
Trustees of Central Park Conservancy, Inc., The Trinity School in New York
City (Trustee Emirata), a member of the Board of Directors of New Yorkers for
Parks, an Honorary Board Member of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories and the
Founder and Chairman of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation.



Leonard A. Lauderis Chairman Emeritus and a member of the Board of Directors.  He was Chairman of the Board of Directors
from 1995 through June 2009 and served as our Chief Executive Officer from
1982 through 1999 and President from 1972 until 1995.  Mr. Lauder formally joined us in 1958
after serving as an officer in the United States Navy.  Since joining, he has held various positions,
including executive officer positions other than those described above.  He is Chairman Emeritus of the Board of
Trustees of the Whitney Museum of American Art, a Charter Trustee of the
University of Pennsylvania, a Trustee of The Aspen Institute and the co-founder
and director of the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation.  He also served as a member of the White House
Advisory Committee on Trade Policy and Negotiations under President Reagan.



Ronald S. Lauderhas served as Chairman of Clinique Laboratories, LLC since returning
from government service in 1987 and was Chairman of Estee Lauder International, Inc.
from 1987 through 2002.He was a member of the Board of Directors of
the Company from 1968 to 1986 and again from 1988 to July 2009.  Mr. Lauder joined the Company in 1964
and has served in various capacities. 
From 1983 to 1986, Mr. Lauder served as Deputy Assistant Secretary
of Defense for European and NATO Affairs. 
From 1986 to 1987, he was U.S. Ambassador to Austria.  He is non-executive Chairman of the Board of
Directors of Central European Media Enterprises Ltd.  He is also an Honorary Chairman of the Board
of Trustees of the Museum of Modern Art and President of the Neue Galerie.



William P. Lauderis Executive Chairman and, in such role, he is Chairman of the Board of
Directors.  He was Chief Executive
Officer of the Company from March 2008 through June 2009 and President
and Chief Executive Officer from July 2004 through February 2008.  From January 2003 through June 2004,
he was Chief Operating Officer.  From July 2001
through 2002, he was Group President responsible for the worldwide business of
Clinique and Origins and the Company’s retail store and on-line
operations.  From 1998 to 2001, he was
President of Clinique Laboratories, LLC. 
Prior to 1998, he was President of Origins Natural Resources Inc., and
he had been the senior officer of that division since its inception in
1990.  Prior thereto, he served in
various positions since joining the Company in 1986.  He is a member of the Boards of Trustees of
The University of Pennsylvania and The Trinity School in New York City and the
Boards of Directors of the Fresh Air Fund, the 92ndStreet Y, the Partnership for New York City,
GLG Partners Inc. (since 2006) and the Advisory Board of Zelnick Media.  He was a director of True Temper Sports Inc.
from 2004 to 2009.



Sara E. Mossis Executive Vice President and General Counsel.  She became Executive Vice President in November 2004. 
She joined us as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in September 2003. 
She was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Pitney Bowes Inc. from
1996 to February 2003, and Senior Litigation Partner for Howard, Smith &
Levin (now Covington & Burling) in New York from 1984 to 1996. 
Prior to 1984, Ms. Moss served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
the Criminal Division in the Southern District of New York, was an associate at
the law firm of Davis, Polk & Wardwell and was Law Clerk to the
Honorable Constance Baker Motley, a U.S. District Judge in the Southern
District of New York.



Gregory F. Polcerbecame Executive Vice President - Global Supply Chain in July 2008.
 He is responsible for Global Direct and Indirect Procurement,
Manufacturing, Logistics, Quality Assurance and Environmental Affairs and
Safety.  From 1988 to 2008, he worked for Unilever where he designed and
implemented global, regional and local initiatives.  Most recently, from
2006 to 2008, he served as the Senior Vice President, Supply Chain for Unilever
where he integrated the North and Latin American Supply Chains, provided senior
leadership for all global supply management and established a global outsourcing
plan.  He served as Senior Vice President, Supply Chain - North America
from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice President, Supply Chain, Home and Personal
Care — North America from 2002 to 2004.



Cedric Prouvébecame Group President - International in January 2003.  He
is responsible for sales and profits in our International Division, which
includes all markets outside of North America, our Travel Retail business
worldwide and all of the activities of our sales affiliates and distributor
relationships.  From August 2000 through December 2002 he was
the General Manager of our Japanese sales affiliate.  From January 1997
to August 2000, he was Vice President, General Manager, Travel
Retail.  He started with us in 1994 as General Manager, Travel Retailing -
Asia Pacific Region and was given the added responsibility of General Manager
of our Singapore affiliate in 1995.  Prior to joining us he worked at L’Oreal
in sales and management positions in the Americas and Asia/Pacific.








Table of
Contents



Alexandra C. Trowerbecame Executive Vice President - Global Communications in April 2008.  She directs the Company’s overall
communications strategy, oversees brand communications, corporate
communications, internal communications and consumer communications.  Before joining us, Ms. Trower was Senior
Vice President, Media Relations for Bank of America from January 2004 to March 2008.  From 1997 to 2002, she worked at JPMorgan
Chase, where she was responsible for corporate communications at JPMorgan
Fleming Asset Management.



Each executive officer serves for a one-year term
ending at the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors, subject to his or
her applicable employment agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation
or removal.



