Item 1.Business

Company Overview



Southwest Airlines Co. (the “Company”) operates Southwest Airlines (“Southwest”), a major passenger airline that provides scheduled air transportation in the United States and near-international markets. During 2014, the Company also operated AirTran Airways (“AirTran”).  AirTran’s final passenger service occurred on December 28, 2014, and the Company reached a major milestone by effectively completing the integration of AirTran into Southwest. In addition, for the42ndconsecutive year, the Company was profitable, earning$1.1 billionin net income.

Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. The Company ended2014serving93destinations in40states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, andfivenear-international countries including Mexico (Cancun, Mexico City, and Cabo San Lucas/Los Cabos), Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), Aruba (Oranjestad), and Dominican Republic (Punta Cana).  Southwest’s launch of international service occurred on July 1, 2014, with service to Montego Bay, Nassau, and Oranjestad. The Company also launched service to Cabo San Lucas/Los Cabos and Cancun on August 10, 2014, and to Mexico City and Punta Cana on November 2, 2014.  The Company has announced plans to add its first and second destinations in Central America by adding Southwest service to San Jose, Costa Rica beginning in March 2015 and to Belize City, Belize beginning in October 2015, each subject to government approval. The Company has also announced plans to commence Southwest service to Puerto Vallarta, Mexico in June 2015, subject to government approval. AtDecember 31, 2014, Southwest operated a total of665Boeing 737 aircraft.

During 2014, the Company significantly increased Southwest service at New York LaGuardia Airport and Washington Reagan National Airport as a result of the acquisition of slots divested by AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines, Inc., as part of AMR’s merger with US Airways Group, Inc. (a “slot” is the right of an air carrier, pursuant to regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), to operate a takeoff or landing at a specific time at certain airports).  Further, at Dallas Love Field, the Company began serving seven new nonstop destinations on October 13, 2014, eight new nonstop destinations on November 2, 2014, and two new nonstop destinations on January 6, 2015.  These routes were made possible by the repeal of certain federal flight restrictions at Dallas Love Field on October 13, 2014. Additional information regarding these restrictions is discussed in more detail below under “Economic and Operational Regulation - The Wright Amendment.”

Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation, as ofSeptember 30, 2014, Southwest was the largest domestic air carrier in the United States, as measured by the number of domestic originating passengers boarded.

Industry

The airline industry has historically been an extremely volatile industry subject to numerous challenges. Among other things, it has been cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. The airline industry has also been particularly susceptible to detrimental events such as acts of terrorism (for example, 9/11), poor weather, and natural disasters. In addition, in recent years the industry was significantly affected by an uncertain economy, high and volatile fuel prices, and government sequestration and shutdown. These factors contributed to unpredictable demand for air travel and related cost and pricing challenges. Reflecting the numerous industry challenges, many U.S. airlines ceased operations or reorganized through bankruptcy.

Although the U.S. economy has experienced a moderate recovery since emerging from a recession in 2009 and the U.S. airline industry has showed measurable improvement during2013and2014, slow economic growth and lingering economic uncertainty have led to continued industry restraint with respect to overall capacity (number of available seat miles). Although many U.S. air carriers, including Southwest, experienced relatively flat to modest year-over-year increases in capacity during2014, overall domestic airline industry capacity in2014remained below pre-recession levels. Leaner flight schedules over the past several years, along with industry consolidation, have contributed to improvements in industry load factors (percentage of seats filled by fare-paying passengers) and yields (revenue










production per passenger mile). With the continued recovery of the U.S. economy, the airline industry has modestly increased scheduled domestic capacity.

Company Operations

Route Structure

General

Southwest principally provides point-to-point service, rather than the “hub-and-spoke” service provided by most major U.S. airlines. The hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline’s operations at a limited number of central hub cities and serves most other destinations in the system by providing one-stop or connecting service through a hub. By not concentrating operations through one or more central transfer points, Southwest’s point-to-point route structure has allowed for more direct nonstop routing than hub-and-spoke service. For2014, approximately73percent of the Company's Customers flew nonstop, and the average aircraft trip stage length was721miles, with an average duration of approximately2.0hours. For2013, approximately72percent of the Company's Customers flew nonstop, and average aircraft trip stage length was703miles, with an average duration of approximately2.0hours.

Southwest’s point-to-point service has also enabled it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers21weekday roundtrips from Dallas Love Field to Houston Hobby,nineweekday roundtrips from Washington Reagan to Chicago Midway,11weekday roundtrips from Phoenix to Las Vegas, and14weekday roundtrips from Los Angeles International to Oakland. Southwest complements these high-frequency routes with long-haul nonstop service between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Las Vegas and Orlando, San Diego and Baltimore, and Houston and New York LaGuardia. As ofDecember 31, 2014, Southwest served581nonstop city pairs.

International Service

In2014, the Company fully converted AirTran international service into Southwest service. The Company began selling its first international itineraries to be flown by Southwest aircraft in January 2014, and Southwest’s launch of international service occurred on July 1, 2014, with service to Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), and Aruba (Oranjestad). Southwest commenced international service to Mexico (Cabo San Lucas/Los Cabos and Cancun) on August 10, 2014, and to Mexico City and Dominican Republic (Punta Cana) on November 2, 2014.  The Company has announced plans to add its first and second destinations in Central America by commencing Southwest service to San Jose, Costa Rica in March 2015 and to Belize City, Belize in October 2015, each subject to government approval. The Company has also announced plans to commence Southwest service to Puerto Vallarta, Mexico in June 2015, subject to government approval.

As part of the Company's near-international service efforts, the Company has agreed with the City of Houston (“City”) to expand the City's existing William P. Hobby airport facility. Pursuant to the agreement, the Company and the City have entered into an Airport Use and Lease Agreement to control the execution of this expansion and its financial terms. This project provides for a newfive-gateinternational terminal with international passenger processing facilities, expansion of the existing security checkpoint, and upgrades to the Southwest ticketing area. Construction began duringthird quarter 2013and is estimated to be completed during thesecond half of 2015. In December2014, the Company announced plans to commence Southwest service at the new Houston Hobby terminal facility in October 2015 to four destinations in Mexico (Cancun, Cabo San Lucas/Los Cabos, Puerto Vallarta, and Mexico City), to Belize City, Belize, and to San Jose, Costa Rica, each subject to government approval. Additional information regarding this project is provided below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note4to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company has also agreed with Broward County, Florida, which owns and operates Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, to oversee and manage the design and construction of the airport’s Terminal 1 Modernization Project. In addition to significant improvements to the existing Terminal 1, the project includes the design and construction of a new five-gate Concourse A with an international processing facility. Construction is expected to begin in mid to late 2015. Additional information regarding this project is provided below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.










The Company’s2014operating revenues attributable to foreign operations (including those attributable to both Southwest and AirTran) were approximately$226 million. The remainder of the Company’s2014operating revenues, approximately$18.4 billion, were attributable to domestic operations. The Company’s2013operating revenues attributable to foreign operations (all of which were attributable to AirTran) were approximately$212 million. The remainder of the Company’s 2013 operating revenues, approximately$17.5 billion, were attributable to domestic operations. The Company’s tangible assets primarily consist of flight equipment, the majority of which are interchangeable and are deployed systemwide, with no individual aircraft dedicated to any specific route or region; therefore, the Company’s assets are not allocated to a geographic area. For a discussion of the risks related to the Company’s foreign operations, see “Risk Factors - The Company’s future results will suffer if it does not effectively manage its expanded operations, including its international operations.”

Cost Structure

General

A key component of the Company’s business strategy has historically been its low-cost structure, which was designed to allow Southwest to profitably charge low fares. Adjusted for stage length, Southwest has lower unit costs, on average, than the vast majority of major domestic carriers. The Company’s low-cost structure has historically been facilitated by Southwest’s use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737, an operationally efficient point-to-point route structure, and highly productive Employees. Southwest’s use of a single aircraft type has allowed for simplified scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, and training activities. Southwest’s point-to-point route structure includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland, San Jose, Providence, and Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines’ hub airports, which has contributed to Southwest's ability to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they are on the ground. This, in turn, has reduced the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be required and allows for high Employee productivity (headcount per aircraft).

The Company believes that its fleet modernization initiatives, as well as the continued addition of the larger Boeing 737-800 to the Southwest fleet, will have a favorable impact on the Company’s unit costs. These strategic initiatives are discussed in more detail below under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Fleet Modernization” and “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Continued Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet.”

Impact of Fuel Costs on the Company’s Low-Cost Structure

Although2014fuel prices were lower than levels experienced in2013, and dropped significantly late in2014, Fuel and oil expense remains one of the Company's largest operating costs. The table below shows the Company’s average cost of jet fuel and oil over the past twelve years and during each quarter of2014.










YearCost(Millions)AverageCost PerGallonPercentage ofOperatingExpenses2003$920$0.8016.5%2004$1,106$0.9218.1%2005$1,470$1.1321.4%2006$2,284$1.6428.0%2007$2,690$1.8029.7%2008$3,713$2.4435.1%2009$3,044$2.1230.2%2010$3,620$2.5132.6%2011$5,644$3.1937.7%2012$6,120$3.3037.2%2013$5,763$3.1635.1%2014$5,293$2.9332.3%First Quarter 2014$1,314$3.1033.3%Second Quarter 2014$1,425$3.0333.6%Third Quarter 2014$1,386$2.9733.1%Fourth Quarter 2014$1,167$2.6329.1%

The Company enters into fuel derivative contracts to manage its risk associated with significant increases in fuel prices; however, because energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time, the Company must also continually monitor and adjust its fuel hedge portfolio and strategies to address not only fuel price increases, but also fuel price volatility and hedge collateral requirements. As evidenced by the extreme decline in jet fuel prices during the fourth quarter of 2014, jet fuel prices are  subject to significant volatility based on a variety of factors. In addition, the cost of hedging generally increases with sustained high potential for volatility in the fuel market. The Company’s fuel hedging activities are discussed in more detail below under “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note10to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fare Structure

Southwest

Southwest offers a relatively simple fare structure that features competitive, unrestricted, unlimited, everyday coach fares, as well as lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest bundles fares into three major categories: “Wanna Get Away®,” “AnytimeSM,” and “Business Select®,” with the goal of making it easier for Customers to choose the fare they prefer. All fare products include the privilege of two free checked bags. In addition, regardless of the fare product, Southwest does not charge fees for changes to flight reservations.

•“Wanna Get Away” fares are generally the lowest fares and are subject to advance purchase requirements. They are nonrefundable but, subject to compliance with Southwest’s No Show policy, funds may be applied to future travel on Southwest. As discussed below under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Ancillary Services and Fees,” Southwest has a No Show policy associated with Wanna Get Away tickets that are not canceled or changed at least ten minutes prior to a flight’s scheduled departure.

•“Anytime” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may also be applied toward future travel on Southwest. Anytime fares also include a higher frequent flyer point multiplier under Southwest’s Rapid Rewards®frequent flyer program than do Wanna Get Away fares.

•“Business Select” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may be applied toward future travel on Southwest. Business Select fares also include additional perks, when available, such as priority boarding in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group “A,” a higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest fares (including twice as many points per dollar spent as compared with Wanna Get Away fares), “Fly By®” priority security and ticket counter access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage coupon for the day of travel (for Customers of legal drinking age).










AirTran

During2014, AirTran offered a user-friendly fare structure that featured a variety of competitive fares and products. Unlike Southwest, AirTran offered a Business Class product. With the exception of Business Class fares, all AirTran fares were nonrefundable, but could be changed prior to departure, subject to payment of a service charge. AirTran Business Class fares were refundable and changeable and included additional perks such as priority boarding, oversized seats with additional leg room, bonus frequent flyer credit, no first or second bag fees, and complimentary cocktails onboard. In addition, AirTran’s Business Class product could be purchased separately or through an upgrade of a non-Business Class fare within 24 hours of travel.

Websites

The Company’s Internet website, southwest.com

®

The Internet website, airtran.com, was an integral part of AirTran’s distribution network during the majority of 2014. In November 2014, the Company completed the integration of booking functions into southwest.com, referring all Customers who visit airtran.com to southwest.com. For the year endedDecember 31, 2014, approximately80percent of the Company’s Passenger revenues came through its websites (including revenues from SWABIZ®).

Operating Strategies and Initiatives

During2014, the Company continued to focus on five strategic initiatives: (i) the integration of Southwest’s and AirTran’s network and operations, (ii) fleet modernization, (iii) the continued incorporation of the larger Boeing 737-800 aircraft into the Southwest fleet, (iv) international capabilities and new reservation system, and (v) the continued growth of Southwest's Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program. In addition to the Company’sfivestrategic initiatives, the Company has continued to design, implement, and manage other initiatives to increase revenues, improve cost controls, and attract and retain Customers.

Strategic Initiatives

Integration of Southwest’s and AirTran’s Network and Operations

During2014, the Company effectively completed the process of integrating AirTran into Southwest’s operations and accomplished the following key integration milestones:

•The Company converted AirTran international service to Southwest beginning with the launch of Southwest international service on July 1, 2014, with service to Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), and Aruba (Oranjestad). Southwest service to Mexico (Cabo San Lucas/Los Cabos and Cancun) commenced on August 10, 2014, and service to Mexico City and Dominican Republic (Punta Cana) began on November 2, 2014, establishing a Southwest presence in all cities in Southwest’s and AirTran’s combined network. AirTran’s final passenger service occurred on December 28, 2014.










•The Company continued to transfer AirTran Employees to Southwest. As ofDecember 31, 2014,allAirTran Employees had been converted to Southwest Employees.

•The Company removed the remaining66AirTran Boeing 717-200 aircraft from service, enabling the Company to once again operate an all-Boeing 737 fleet, with the expected efficiencies associated with operating a single aircraft type.

•The Company continued to convert AirTran 737-700 aircraft to the Southwest livery. As ofDecember 31, 2014,47out of a total of52AirTran 737-700 aircraft had completed the conversion process and re-entered service as Southwest aircraft. The remainingfiveAirTran 737-700 aircraft have been removed from service to begin the conversion process and are scheduled to re-enter service as Southwest aircraft in early 2015.

•The Company completed the integration of booking and frequent flyer functions into southwest.com, referring all Customers who visit airtran.com to southwest.com. The Company transferred AirTran Customers’ A+ Rewards account history and any A+ Rewards credits that had not expired as of November 1, 2014, into Southwest Rapid Rewards accounts.

Fleet Modernization

As discussed below, the Company has multiple efforts underway to replace its older aircraft with newer aircraft that are less maintenance intensive and more fuel efficient and that also have a greater range. The Company expects its long-term fleet modernization plan to provide substantial flexibility to manage its fleet needs in a variety of economic conditions. The Company’s future aircraft delivery schedule is set forth in more detail below under “Properties - Aircraft.”

The Boeing 737 MAX.The Company is scheduled to be the launch customer for the new Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, which is designed to be more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly than the Company’s current Boeing aircraft. The Company has placed firm orders for170of the Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft and expects to begin to take delivery in 2017. Additionally, in 2013 the Company placed a firm order for30of the Boeing 737 MAX 7 aircraft and expects to begin to take delivery in 2019. The Company also has options to purchase an additional191Boeing 737 MAX aircraft during the period from 2021 through 2027. The Company believes the 737 MAX will (i) have the lowest operating unit costs in the single-aisle segment and (ii) benefit the Company with an engine/airframe combination that is uniquely designed to optimize operating performance of the Company’s fleet.

The Boeing Next-Generation 737.The Company has also expanded its orders for the Boeing Next-Generation 737 aircraft. From 2012 through 2014, the Company purchased78Boeing Next-Generation 737-800 aircraft and leased, from third parties,sevenBoeing 737-800 aircraft. Additionally, during the same time period, the Company acquired24pre-owned 737-700 aircraft from third parties. Including the 737 MAX firm orders described above, the Company has overall total firm orders with Boeing of275aircraft for 2015 through 2024. Additionally, for 2015 and 2016, combined, as of December 31, 2014, the Company had agreed to acquire an additional20pre-owned 737-700 aircraft from third parties,14of which are expected to be leased aircraft. The orders from Boeing and acquisitions from third parties are intended to predominately serve as replacement aircraft for older 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft continuing to be retired from the Company’s fleet and for 717-200 aircraft that the Company has transitioned out of its fleet. The Company also has options with Boeing to purchase an additional35Boeing 737 Next-Generation aircraft during the period from 2016 through 2018.

Transition of Boeing 717 Aircraft.Pursuant to an agreement with Delta Air Lines, Inc. and Boeing Capital Corp., during2014, the Company continued transitioning AirTran’s Boeing 717-200 aircraft out of the Company’s fleet for delivery to Delta. Deliveries to Delta began in September 2013 and are expected to continue at the rate of approximatelythreeaircraft per month. As ofDecember 31, 2014, all88of AirTran’s Boeing 717-200 aircraft had been removed from service and52had been delivered to Delta. From a fleet management perspective, this transition allows the Company to minimize the impact of this transaction on operations, as the Boeing 717 capacity lost is expected to be replaced through the capacity gained as a result of (i) the Company’s extension of the retirement dates for a portion of its 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft and (ii) deliveries from Boeing of new 737 aircraft or deliveries of used 737 aircraft from other sources. Transitioning the Boeing 717 aircraft out of the Company’s fleet avoids added complexity to the Company’s operations, as the Company has historically operated an all-Boeing 737 fleet. Replacement of the Boeing










717 aircraft capacity with Boeing 737 capacity provides revenue opportunities with more seats per aircraft, while costing approximately the same amount to fly on a per-trip basis as the smaller Boeing 717 aircraft.

Continued Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet

To further support its fleet modernization efforts, during


, the Company continued to incorporate the Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest fleet. The 737-800’s all coach seating configuration of 175 offers significantly more Customer seating capacity than Southwest’s other aircraft. In addition to the 737-800’s added seating capacity, its configuration includes The Boeing Company’s Sky Interior, which features a quieter cabin, improved operational security features, and LED reading and ceiling lighting. In addition, the domestic airline industry has experienced a decline in short-haul flying since 2000, and the 737-800 allows the Company to adjust its route network to allow for more long-haul flying. The Company expects the 737-800 will continue to enable it to (i) more economically serve long-haul routes; (ii) improve scheduling flexibility and more economically serve high-demand, slot-controlled, and gate-restricted airports by adding seats to such markets without increasing the number of flights; and (iii) boost fuel efficiency to reduce overall unit costs. Additionally, the Company expects the 737-800 will enable Southwest to profitably expand to new destinations, including extended routes over water, and potentially fly to more distant markets such as Hawaii, Alaska, Canada, and other near-international locations. The Company has taken delivery of


Boeing 737-800 aircraft from 2012 through 2014 and currently expects to take delivery of an additional


Boeing 737-800s during 2015. The Company’s fleet composition and delivery schedule is discussed in more detail below under “Properties - Aircraft.”

International Capabilities and New Reservation System

In January 2014, the Company launched an international reservation system and, as discussed above under “Company Operations - International Service,”  began selling its inaugural international daily nonstop service to be flown by Southwest aircraft beginning July 1, 2014. The Company worked with Amadeus IT Group to launch Amadeus’ Altéa reservations solution to support the Company’s international service.

After the successful launch of the Amadeus Altéa international reservation system, the Company announced in May 2014 that it selected Amadeus' Altéa reservations solution as the Company's future single reservation system for both domestic and international reservations. This single reservation system is expected to be delivered over a multi-year period.

Continued Growth of Southwest’s Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program

Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program enables members to earn points for every dollar spent. The amount of points earned under the program is based on the fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g.,Wanna Get Away). Each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. Likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the fare and fare class purchased. Under the program (i) members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire so long as the Rapid Rewards Member has points-earning activity during the most recent 24 months.

Under the program, members continue to accumulate points until the time they decide to redeem them. As a result, the program provides members significant flexibility and options for earning and redeeming rewards. For example, members can earn more points (and/or achieve tiered status such as A-List and Companion Pass faster) by purchasing higher fare tickets. Members also have significant flexibility in redeeming points, such as the opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower fare (including many fare sales) ticket by redeeming fewer points or by being able to redeem more points and book at the last minute if seats are still available for sale. Rapid Rewards Members can also earn points through qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners (which include, for example, car rental agencies, hotels, restaurants, and retail locations), as well as by using Southwest’s co-branded Chase®Visa credit card. In addition, holders of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card are able to redeem their points for items other than travel on Southwest, such as international flights on other airlines, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. In addition to earning points for revenue flights and qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners, Rapid Rewards Members also have the ability to purchase points.










Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program features tier and Companion Pass programs for the most active members, including “A-List” and “A-List Preferred” status. Both A-List and A-List Preferred Members enjoy benefits such as “Fly By®” priority checkin and security lane access, where available, as well as dedicated phone lines, standby priority, and an earnings bonus on eligible revenue flights (25 percent for A-List and 100 percent for A-List Preferred). In addition, A-List Preferred Members enjoy free inflight WiFi on equipped flights. Rapid Rewards Members who attain A-List or A-List Preferred status receive priority boarding privileges for an entire year. When these Customers purchase travel at least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best boarding pass number available (generally, an “A” boarding pass). Rapid Rewards Members who fly 100 qualifying one-way flights or earn 110,000 qualifying points in a calendar year automatically receive a Companion Pass, which provides for unlimited free travel for one year to any destination available on Southwest for a designated companion of the qualifying Rapid Rewards Member. The Rapid Rewards Member and designated companion must travel together on the same flight.

Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program has been designed to drive more revenue by (i) bringing in new Customers, including new Rapid Rewards Members, as well as new holders of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card; (ii) increasing business from existing Customers; and (iii) strengthening the Company’s Rapid Rewards hotel, rental car, credit card, and retail partnerships. To date, the program has exceeded the Company’s expectations with respect to the number of frequent flyer members added, the amount spent per member on airfare, the number of flights taken by members, the number of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card holders added, the number of points sold to business partners, and the number of frequent flyer points purchased by program members.

During 2014, AirTran’s A+ Rewards frequent flyer program offered a number of ways to earn free travel, including bonus earnings for Business Class travel. A+ Rewards members could earn a credit for each one-way trip flown or 1.5 credits for one-way Business Class travel. A+ Rewards credits could also be earned for purchases made with an AirTran A+ Rewards Chase Visa credit card. The last day to earn or redeem A+Rewards credits in AirTran’s A+ Rewards frequent flyer program was on November 1, 2014.  After that time, the program ended and all remaining A+ Rewards accounts were converted to Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program, and all remaining A+Rewards credits were converted to Rapid Rewards points.

For the Company’s2014consolidated results, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately6.2 millionflight awards, accounting for approximately11.0percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For the Company’s2013consolidated results, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately5.4 millionflight awards, accounting for approximately9.5percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For the Company’s 2012 consolidated results, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately4.5 millionflight awards, accounting for approximately9.0percent of revenue passenger miles flown. The Company’s accounting policies with respect to its frequent flyer programs are discussed in more detail in Note1to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other Initiatives

Network Optimization and Revenue Management

The Company uses profitability management tools to manage capacity and route expansion though optimization of its flight schedule to, among other things, better match demand in certain markets. Using its profitability management tools, the Company continually adjusts the Company’s network through the addition of new markets and routes, the adjustment of frequencies in existing markets, and the exiting of certain unsustainable markets and redeployment of aircraft to other markets. As part of its continuing network optimization efforts, the Company ceased operations in Branson, Missouri; Key West, Florida; and Jackson, Mississippi in June 2014. The Company believes the continued optimization and alignment of its flight schedule can continue to yield significant synergies and other benefits. Over the next several years, the Company also plans to develop new systems to improve both revenue management and network optimization capabilities.

Cost Containment

Over the last several years, the Company has undertaken a number of cost-containment projects for the purpose of preserving Southwest’s low-cost advantage and low-fare brand. These have included the fleet modernization and network optimization strategies discussed above. Among other things, fleet modernization has contributed to lower maintenance and repair expenses, and network optimization is enabling Employee scheduling efficiencies.










In addition, these cost-containment projects have included various fuel conservation and carbon emission reduction initiatives such as the following:

•installation of blended winglets, which reduce drag and increase fuel efficiency, on all Boeing 737-700 and 737-800 aircraft in Southwest’s fleet and on a majority of Southwest’s 737-300 aircraft;

•upgrading of the Company’s 737-800 fleet during the 2014-2015 timeframe with newly designed, split scimitar winglets;

•periodic engine washes;

•use of electric ground power for aircraft air and power at the gate and for ground support equipment at select locations;

•deployment of auto-throttle and vertical navigation to maintain optimum cruising speeds;

•implementation of new engine start procedures to support the introduction of new single engine taxi procedures;

•adjustment of the timing of auxiliary power unit starts on originating flights to reduce auxiliary power unit usage;

•fuel planning initiatives to safely reduce loading of excess fuel;

•Evolveaircraft cabin interior retrofit featuring lighter seats;

•reduced aircraft engine idle speed while on the ground, which also increases engine life;

•galley refresh with dry goods weight reduction;

•Company Optimized Routes (flying the best wind routes to take advantage of tailwinds or to minimize headwinds);

•improved flight planning algorithms to better match aircraft Flight Management System (flying at the most efficient altitude);

•substitution of Pilot flight bags with lighter Electronic Flight Bag tablets; and

•Real Time Descent Winds (automatic uplink of up-to-date wind data to the aircraft allowing crews to time the descent to minimize thrust inputs).

The Company has also participated in Required Navigation Performance (“RNP”) operations as part of the FAA’s Performance Based Navigation program, which is intended to modernize the U.S. Air Traffic Control System by addressing limitations on air transportation capacity and making more efficient use of airspace. RNP combines the capabilities of advanced aircraft avionics, Global Positioning System ("GPS") satellite navigation (instead of less precise ground-based navigation), and new flight procedures to (i) enable aircraft to carry navigation capabilities rather than relying on airports; (ii) improve operational capabilities by opening up many new and more direct airport approach paths to produce more efficient flight patterns; and (iii) conserve fuel, improve safety, and reduce carbon emissions. Southwest began conducting GPS approach procedures during the first quarter of 2010, completed RNP training of nearly 6,000 pilots in November 2010, and commenced RNP procedures in revenue service in January 2011. By the end of


, Southwest had conducted over

18,000

RNP approaches, including approximately

4,500

in 2014. Southwest must rely on RNP approaches published by the FAA, and the rate of introduction of RNP approaches continues to be slower than expected, with fuel efficient RNP approaches currently available at only


airports. In addition, even at airports with approved RNP approaches, the clearance required from air traffic controllers to perform RNP approaches is sometimes not granted. Southwest continues to work with the FAA to develop more RNP approaches and to modify air traffic control rules to support greater utilization of RNP.

New Livery and Branding and Aggressive Promotion of the Company’s Points of Differentiation from its Competitors

In September 2014, the Company launched a new visual expression of its brand by introducing a new Heart aircraft livery, airport experience, and logo. From a financial perspective, the Company intends for this launch to remain cost-neutral by using a phased roll-out across both its fleet and its network. Aircraft already in the Company's fleet are scheduled to receive the newly painted livery within the aircraft's existing repainting schedule, while new aircraft will










be delivered in the Heart livery. In addition, many of the future airport conversions will be integrated into existing and upcoming airport improvement projects.

During 2014, the Company continued to benefit from, and aggressively market, Southwest’s points of differentiation from its competitors. For example, Southwest continues to be the only major U.S. airline that does not impose additional fees for first and second checked bags. Through both its national and local marketing campaigns, Southwest has continued to aggressively promote this point of differentiation from its competitors with its “Bags Fly Free®” message. The Company believes its decision not to charge for first and second checked bags on Southwest, as reinforced by the Company’s related marketing campaign, has driven an increase in Southwest’s market share and a resulting net increase in revenues.

Southwest is also the only major U.S. airline that does not impose a fee on any of its fares for a Customer change in flight reservations. The Company has continued to incorporate this key point of differentiation in its marketing campaigns. The campaigns highlight the importance to Southwest of Customer Service by showing that Southwest understands plans can change and therefore does not charge a change fee. While a Customer may pay a difference in airfare, the Customer will not be charged a change fee on top of any difference in airfare.

Also unlike most of its competitors, Southwest does not impose additional fees for items such as seat selection, fuel surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations. In addition, Southwest allows each ticketed Customer to check one stroller and one car seat free of charge, in addition to the two free checked bags.

The Company also continues to promote all of the many other reasons to fly Southwest such as its low fares, network size, Customer Service, free live television offerings (discussed below under “Inflight WiFi and Entertainment”), and its Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program.

Business Traveler Amenities

Southwest offers several products that have been designed to attract business/full fare travelers.

Business Select.As discussed above, Southwest’s “Business Select” fare includes perks such as priority boarding in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group “A" when available, a higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest fares (including twice as many points per dollar spent as compared with Wanna Get Away fares), “Fly By®” priority ticket counter and security checkpoint access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage coupon for the day of travel (for Customers of legal drinking age).

Fly By®Priority Lanes.Southwest provides Fly By Priority Lane access for its Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members at many of its airports. Fly By Priority Lanes are priority access lanes located at select ticket counters and security checkpoints. The lanes allow Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members direct access to the front of the line at the ticket counter and/or security checkpoint. As ofDecember 31, 2014, Fly By Priority Lane access was available at78airports served by Southwest.

SWABIZ.SWABIZ is Southwest’s business travel reservation web page. SWABIZ allows business travelers to plan, book, and purchase Ticketless Travel on Southwest and to efficiently obtain their lowest fares and maximum frequent flyer credit.

In addition, as discussed below under “Inflight WiFi and Entertainment,” Southwest has continued to install equipment on its fleet to provide access to WiFi connectivity and live television utilizing the Customer's mobile device.

Ancillary Services and Fees

During2014, the Company continued to experience revenue benefits from service offerings such as Southwest’s EarlyBird Check-In®and Pets Are Welcome on Southwest (P.A.W.S.) products. EarlyBird Check-In provides Customers with automatic checkin so Customers are checked in 12 hours before general boarding positions become available, improving Customers' seat selection options. Customers can purchase EarlyBird Check-In for an additional$12.50each way (priority boarding privileges are already a benefit of being an A-List frequent flyer - see “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Continued Growth of Southwest’s Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program” above). Southwest’s P.A.W.S. offering allows Customers to bring a small cat or dog into the aircraft cabin for a$95one-way fare. Southwest also charges an additional$50per one-way trip for unaccompanied minor travel to address the administrative costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. The Company also expects to continue to benefit from ancillary revenue opportunities created by Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program.










Southwest sells open priority boarding positions in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group “A” systemwide at the gate for a$40charge per flight based on availability (priority boarding positions in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group “A”, when available, are already included in the purchase of a Business Select fare - see “Other Initiatives - Business Traveler Amenities” above), which provides another priority boarding choice for its Customers in addition to Southwest’s “Business Select” product and EarlyBird Check-In.

Southwest has a No Show policy that applies to nonrefundable fares that are not canceled or changed by a Customer at leastten minutesprior to a flight's scheduled departure. If a Customer has booked a nonrefundable fare anywhere in his/her itinerary and that portion of the flight is not used and not canceled or changed by the Customer at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure, all unused funds on the full itinerary will be forfeited, and the remaining reservation will be canceled. This policy does not apply to military fares, senior fares, or travel during certain irregular operations, including severe weather conditions. The No Show policy does not impact Customers who simply cancel a Wanna Get Away or DING!®fare at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure; in this case, Customers may reuse their funds toward future travel on Southwest, without a change fee. Customers who are traveling on a fully refundable itinerary that does not contain a Wanna Get Away or DING! fare have the option of either requesting a refund or holding funds for future travel. Southwest's intent with its No Show policy is to promote Customer behavior that will enable Southwest to re-sell the open seat prior to departure.

During2014, AirTran charged fees for checked baggage, carriage of pets, liquor sales, advance seat assignments, call center services, priority seat selection, special services such as the transportation of unaccompanied minors, and extension or transfer of A+ Miles Rewards (in addition to fees for the purchase of A+ Miles Rewards).

Inflight WiFi and Entertainment

Southwest offers inflight satellite-based WiFi service on all of its 737-700 and 737-800 aircraft, representing approximately80percent of Southwest’s fleet. Southwest’s arrangement with its WiFi provider enables the Company to control the pricing of the WiFi service, which is currently$8a day per device, including WiFi-enabled stops and connections. Southwest’s Customers with small portable electronic devices are able to utilize the airline’s onboard WiFi from gate-to-gate when travelling on a Southwest WiFi-enabled airplane. Southwest was the first carrier to offer gate-to-gate connectivity.

Southwest has grown the onboard entertainment options on WiFi-enabled aircraft for viewing on Customers’ personal wireless devices to include free access to Southwest’s live and on-demand television product. The television product currently consists of19live channels and up to75on-demand recorded episodes from popular television series. Due to licensing restrictions, free live TV may not be available onboard WiFi-enabled international flights.

Southwest also provides movies-on-demand, which are currently priced at$5per movie and, in December 2013, became the first airline to offer a Messaging-only option for$2a day per device, including all WiFi-enabled stops and connections. The Messaging service allows access to iMessage and pre-downloaded apps for Viber and WhatsApp.

Customers do not have to purchase WiFi to access television offerings, movies-on-demand, or the Messaging-only service.

Proactive Customer Communications

The Company’s Automated Outbound Messaging (“AOM”) service enables it to (i) proactively deliver customized automated voice, text, and e-mail messages to Southwest domestic Customers when there has been a change in their flight status as a result of a cancellation or flight delay (of 30 minutes or more), as well as potential disruptions to Southwest’s scheduled service; and (ii) give Southwest domestic Customers the option to connect to a Customer Representative or rebook online in the case of cancelled flights. Southwest domestic Customers who book their travel on southwest.com have the option to receive these notifications via telephone (landline or mobile), SMS (text message), or email. In addition to providing flight information to Southwest domestic Customers using their preferred contact method, if applicable, the Company directs Southwest domestic Customers to rebook their flights online via southwest.com/rebook. The AOM strategy is designed to increase proactive Customer outreach and accommodations, reduce Customer inconvenience, uphold regulatory requirements, mitigate costs, and provide a better overall travel experience. Customers with international reservations are able to sign up for text messaging and email alerts, via Southwest’s Flight Status Notification (“FSN”) service on southwest.com, when there has been a change in their flight status as a result of cancellation or flight delay (of 30 minutes or more).  Through the Company’s coordinated technology










initiatives, it expects to combine its AOM and FSN products into one streamlined messaging platform for domestic and international flight notifications.

Mobile App and Website and Mobile Boarding Passes

In2014, Southwest released several updates to its mobile app and website, including the introduction of an updated homepage that allows Customers to quickly view information like flight status, boarding position, and gate information. Travel information is updated in the app beginning 24 hours prior to a flight allowing Customers to checkin and access their mobile boarding pass from the homepage. During2014, Southwest also completed the rollout of its mobile boarding pass to all U.S. airports that Southwest serves. In addition, Southwest refreshed the look and feel of the app to align with the new visual expression of its brand discussed above under “Other Initiatives - New Livery and Branding and Aggressive Promotion of the Company’s Points of Differentiation from its Competitors.” Additional features and updates are expected in 2015 as mobile demand continues to grow.

Management Information Systems

The Company has continued its commitment to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. The Company has invested in significant technology necessary to support several of its initiatives, including (i) the implementation of connecting capabilities between the Southwest and AirTran reservation systems, which helped enable the Company to fully complete the process of integrating Southwest’s and AirTran’s network and operations, (ii) Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program, (iii) the continued incorporation of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft into the Company’s fleet, (iv) enhancements to the southwest.com website, (v) WiFi implementation and live television connectivity, and (vi) new reservation system technology to support Southwest's international itineraries. In addition, during 2014, the Company selected Amadeus' Altéa reservations solution as the Company's future single reservation system for both domestic and international reservations. This single reservation system is expected to be delivered over a multi-year period.

The Company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources towards, among other things, (i) the development of new systems to improve both revenue management and network optimization capabilities, (ii) replacement of Southwest's existing domestic reservation system with the comprehensive Amadeus' Altéa reservations solution, and (iii) a new suite of operational tools that the Company expects will improve operational management.

Regulation

The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the federal government, and there are a significant number of governmental agencies and legislative bodies that have the ability to directly or indirectly affect the Company and/or the airline industry financially and/or operationally. Examples of regulations affecting the Company and/or the airline industry, imposed by several of these governmental agencies and legislative bodies, are discussed below.

Economic and Operational Regulation

Consumer Protection Regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation

The U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) regulates aviation safety, as well as economic operating authority and consumer protection. The DOT may impose civil penalties on air carriers for violating its regulations.

To provide passenger transportation in the United States, a domestic airline is required to hold both a Certificate of Public Convenience & Necessity from the DOT and an Air Carrier Operating Certificate from the FAA, an agency within the DOT. A Certificate of Public Convenience & Necessity is unlimited in duration, and the Company’s certificate generally permits it to operate among any points within the United States and its territories and possessions. Additional DOT authority, in the form of a certificate or exemption from certificate requirements, is required for a U.S. airline to serve foreign destinations either with its own aircraft or via codesharing with another airline. The DOT also has jurisdiction over international tariffs and pricing in certain markets. The DOT may revoke a certificate or exemption, in whole or in part, for intentional failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders, or the terms of the certificate itself.

The DOT’s consumer protection and enforcement activities relate to areas such as unfair and deceptive practices and unfair competition by air carriers, deceptive airline advertising (e.g.,fare, ontime performance, schedule, and










codesharing), and violations of rules concerning denied boarding compensation, ticket refunds, and baggage liability requirements. The DOT is also charged with prohibiting discrimination by airlines against consumers on the basis of race, religion, national origin, or sex.

Under the above-described authority, the DOT has adopted so-called “Passenger Protection Rules,” which address a wide variety of matters including flight delays on the tarmac, chronically delayed flights, denied boarding compensation, and advertising of airfares, among others. Under the Passenger Protection Rules, U.S. passenger airlines are required to adopt contingency plans that include the following: (i) assurances that no domestic flight will remain on the airport tarmac for more than three hours and that no international flight will remain on the tarmac at a U.S. airport for more than four hours, unless the pilot-in-command determines there is a safety-related or security-related impediment to deplaning passengers, or air traffic control advises the pilot-in-command that returning to the gate or permitting passengers to disembark elsewhere would significantly disrupt airport operations; (ii) an assurance that air carriers will provide adequate food and potable drinking water no later than two hours after the aircraft leaves the gate (in the case of departure) or touches down (in the case of arrival) if the aircraft remains on the tarmac, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security considerations preclude such service; and (iii) an assurance of operable lavatories, as well as adequate medical attention, if needed. Air carriers are required to publish their contingency plans on their websites.

The Passenger Protection Rules also subject airlines to potential DOT enforcement action for unfair and deceptive practices in the event of chronically delayed domestic flights (i.e.,domestic flights that operate at least ten times a month and arrive more than 30 minutes late more than 50 percent of the time during that month). In addition, airlines are required to (i) display ontime performance on their websites; (ii) adopt customer service plans, publish those plans on their website, and audit their own compliance with their plans; (iii) designate an employee to monitor the performance of their flights; (iv) provide information to passengers on how to file complaints; and (v) respond in a timely and substantive fashion to consumer complaints. Airlines that violate the Passenger Protection Rules are subject to potential fines of up to$27,500per occurrence or per passenger, the maximum allowed for violating any aviation consumer rule.

The Passenger Protection Rules also require airlines to (i) pay up to$1,300in denied boarding compensation to passengers involuntarily bumped from flights; (ii) refund any checked bag fee for permanently lost luggage; (iii) prominently disclose all potential fees for optional services on their websites; and (iv) refund passenger fees paid for ancillary services if a flight cancels or oversells and a passenger is unable to take advantage of such services.

The Passenger Protection Rules also require that (i) advertised airfares include all government-mandated taxes and fees; (ii) passengers be allowed to hold a reservation for up to 24 hours without making a payment; (iii) passengers be allowed to cancel a paid reservation without penalty for 24 hours after the reservation is made, as long as the reservation is made at least seven days in advance of travel; (iv) fares may not increase after purchase; (v) baggage fees must be disclosed to the passenger at the time of booking; (vi) the same baggage allowances and fees must apply throughout a passenger’s trip; (vii) baggage fees must be disclosed on e-ticket confirmations; and (viii) passengers must be promptly notified in the event of delays of more than 30 minutes or if there is a cancellation or diversion of their flight.

In May 2014, the DOT issued a proposed rule that would further expand the Passenger Protection Rules. The DOT’s proposed rule would, among other things, require airlines to share with ticket agents fee information for “basic ancillary services,” including fees for a first checked bag, second checked bag, carry-on items, and advance seat selection. The Company is not able to predict the impact of such a requirement on its services, although the Company is likely to be affected to a lesser degree than most other airlines, which generally offer more ancillary products and services. The DOT may issue a final rule in this proceeding in 2015. The DOT has expressed its intent to aggressively investigate alleged violations of the Passenger Protection Rules.  The DOT has also proposed rules to require airlines to report more information to the DOT on the amount and types of their ancillary fees.  These proposals may be made final in 2015.

Aviation Taxes

The statutory authority for the federal government to collect most types of aviation taxes, which are used, in part, to finance programs administered by the FAA, must be periodically reauthorized by the U.S. Congress. In 2012, Congress adopted the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, which extended most commercial aviation taxes










through September 30, 2015. Congress is expected to try to enact a new FAA reauthorization bill in 2015, which may make substantive changes with respect to aviation taxes (including, possibly, airport-assessed passenger facility charges) and/or FAA offices and programs that are financed through aviation tax revenue.  Congress must either adopt a new FAA reauthorization bill or pass a “status quo” extension by October 1, 2015; otherwise, a lapse in the statutory authority could affect the airlines’ and passengers’ respective tax burdens, as well as impact the FAA’s ability to fund airport grants and regulate the airline industry.

In addition to FAA-related taxes, there are additional federal taxes related to the Department of Homeland Security. These taxes do not need to be reauthorized periodically. However, in an effort to reduce the federal deficit and generate more government revenue, Congress approved legislation in December 2013 to generate more net federal revenue by (i) increasing the Transportation Security Fee paid by passengers from$2.50per passenger segment to$5.60per one-way passenger trip, effective July 2014; and (ii) eliminating a duplicative security fee paid by airlines directly, called the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee, effective October 2014. In December 2014, Congress capped the Transportation Security Fee at $11.20 per round-trip.

In 2015, Congress may consider comprehensive tax reform legislation, which could result in a lower corporate tax rate and the elimination of certain tax deductions and preferences, as well as separate legislation that could increase one or more of the passenger-paid fees used to support the operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”). Grants to airports and/or airport bond financing may also be affected through future legislation, which could result in higher fees, rates, and charges at many of the airports the Company serves.

The Wright Amendment

Section 29 of the International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979, as amended (commonly known as the “Wright Amendment”), prohibited the carriage of nonstop and through passengers on commercial flights between Dallas Love Field and all states outside of Texas, with the exception of the following states (the “Wright Amendment States”): Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Originally, the Wright Amendment permitted an airline to offer flights between Dallas Love Field and the Wright Amendment States only to the extent the airline did not offer or provide any through service or ticketing with another air carrier at Dallas Love Field and did not market service to or from Dallas Love Field and any point outside of a Wright Amendment State. In other words, a Customer could not purchase a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any destination other than a Wright Amendment State. These restrictions did not apply to flights operated with aircraft having 56 or fewer passenger seats. The Wright Amendment also did not restrict the Company’s intrastate Texas flights or its air service to or from points other than Dallas Love Field.

In 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with the City of Dallas, the City of Fort Worth, American Airlines, Inc., and the DFW International Airport Board, pursuant to which the five parties sought enactment of legislation to amend the Wright Amendment. Congress responded by passing the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006, which immediately repealed the original through service and ticketing restrictions by allowing the purchase of a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any destination (while still requiring the Customer to make a stop in a Wright Amendment State), and reduced the maximum number of gates available for commercial air service at Dallas Love Field from 32 to 20. The Wright Amendment Reform Act also provided for the repeal, on October 13, 2014, of the Wright Amendment federal flight restrictions at Dallas Love Field, for travel to destinations within the 50 States and to the District of Columbia. Accordingly, the Company became, and remains, authorized to fly to any U.S. destination from Dallas Love Field unless such destination is restricted or otherwise limited by law. Nonstop international service to or from Dallas Love Field will continue to be prohibited. The Company currently operates out of


gates it leases at Dallas Love Field. As discussed further in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," in January 2015, the Company announced a long-term sublease agreement that will transfer usage of two additional gates, giving the Company 18 gates at Dallas Love Field.

Operational, Safety, and Health Regulation

The FAA has the authority to regulate safety aspects of civil aviation operations. Specifically, the Company and its third-party service providers are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, flight training personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. The FAA, acting through its own powers or through the appropriate U.S. Attorney, has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition and collection of fines for violation of the FAA regulations.










To address compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain an Air Carrier Operating Certificate and other certificates, approvals, and authorities. These certificates, approvals, and authorities are subject to suspension or revocation for cause.

In January 2014, a new FAA rule went into effect amending the FAA’s flight, duty, and rest regulations. Among other things, the rule requires a ten hour minimum rest period prior to a pilot’s flight duty period; mandates that a pilot must have an opportunity for eight hours of uninterrupted sleep within the rest period; and imposes pilot “flight time” and “duty time” limitations based upon report times, the number of scheduled flight segments, and other operational factors. The rule may reduce the Company’s staffing flexibility, which could impact the Company’s operational performance, costs, and Customer Experience.

The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to occupational safety and health, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Food and Drug Administration regulations.

Security Regulation

Since November 2013, the Company, in conjunction with the TSA and CBP, has participated in TSA PreCheck™, a pre-screening initiative that allows a select group of low risk passengers the ability to move through security checkpoints with greater efficiency and ease when traveling. Eligible passengers may use dedicated screening lanes at certain airports that the Company serves for screening benefits, which include leaving on shoes, light outerwear, and belts, as well as leaving laptops and compliant liquids in carryon bags.

The Company also participates in the TSA Known Crewmember®program, which is a risk-based screening system that enables TSA security officers to positively verify the identity and employment status of flight-crew members. The program expedites flight crew member access to sterile areas of airports.

The Company has made significant investments to address the effect of security regulations, including investments in facilities, equipment, and technology to process Customers, checked baggage, and cargo efficiently and restore the airport experience; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various security measures or the lack of TSA resources at certain airports will have on Passenger revenues and the Company’s costs, either in the short-term or the long-term.

Environmental Regulation

The Company is subject to various federal laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking










Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern aircraft drinking water, emissions from operations, and the discharge or disposal of materials such as jet fuel, chemicals, hazardous waste, and aircraft deicing fluid. Additionally, in conjunction with airport authorities, other airlines, and state and local environmental regulatory agencies, the Company, as a normal course of business, undertakes voluntary investigation or remediation of soil or groundwater contamination at several airport sites. The Company does not believe that any environmental liability associated with these airport sites will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, costs, or profitability, nor has it experienced any such liability in the past that has had a material adverse effect on its operations, costs, or profitability. Further regulatory developments pertaining to the control of engine exhaust emissions from ground support equipment could increase operating costs in the airline industry. The Company does not believe, however, that pending environmental regulatory developments in this area will have a material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures or otherwise materially adversely affect its operations, operating costs, or competitive position.

The federal government, as well as several state and local governments, the governments of other countries, and the United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization (the “ICAO”) are considering legislative and regulatory proposals and voluntary measures to address climate change by reducing green-house gas emissions. At the federal level, the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) announced in September 2014 that it will propose an endangerment finding for greenhouse gas emissions from aircraft sometime in 2015.  The EPA would be required under the Clean Air Act to regulate greenhouse gases from aircraft if it determines the emissions endanger public health or the environment.  In addition, along with its proposed endangerment finding, the EPA said that it will also issue an advance notice of proposed rulemaking summarizing international efforts to regulate aircraft emissions.  The ICAO could adopt a carbon dioxide standard for aircraft by 2016 and possibly a larger international framework for aviation emissions as world governments continue to negotiate a new global climate accord. Regardless of the method of regulation, policy changes with regards to climate change are possible, which could significantly increase operating costs in the airline industry and, as a result, adversely affect operations.

The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 gives airport operators the right, under certain circumstances, to implement local noise abatement programs, so long as they do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Some airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of operations. These types of restrictions can cause curtailments in service or increases in operating costs and could limit the ability of air carriers to expand operations at the affected airports.

As part of its commitment to corporate sustainability, the Company has published the Southwest One ReportTMdescribing the Company’s sustainability strategies, which include efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address other environmental matters such as energy and water conservation, waste minimization, and recycling. As discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Cost Containment,” the Company has also committed significant resources towards implementation of RNP procedures, which are designed to conserve fuel and reduce carbon emissions. In addition, the Company’s “Green Team” targets areas of environmental improvement in all aspects of the Company’s business, while at the same time remaining true to the Company’s low-cost philosophy.

International Regulation

All international air service is subject to certain federal requirements and approvals, as well as the regulatory requirements of the appropriate authorities of the foreign countries involved. The Company has obtained the necessary economic authority from the DOT, as well as FAA approvals, to conduct operations, under certain circumstances, to points outside of the continental United States. To the extent the Company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, it will be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT and approvals from the FAA, as well as any applicable foreign government or other authority.

Moreover, CBP is the federal agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security charged with facilitating international trade, collecting import duties, and enforcing U.S. regulations with respect to trade, customs, and immigration. As the Company expands its international flight offerings, CBP requirements and resources will become increasingly important considerations to the Company. For instance, with the exception of flights from a small number of foreign “preclearance” locations, arriving international flights may only land at CBP-designated airports, and CBP officers must be present and in sufficient quantities at those airports to effectively process and inspect arriving international passengers and cargo. Thus, CBP personnel and CBP-mandated procedures can affect the Company’s










operations, costs, and Customer experience. The Company will make significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the Customer experience and to assist CBP with its inspection and processing duties; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various CBP measures or the lack of CBP resources will have on Company revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term.

Insurance

The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and in amounts deemed adequate to protect the Company and its property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain of the Company’s credit and lease agreements. The policies principally provide coverage for public and passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or damage to aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers’ compensation. In addition, the Company currently carries a cyber-security insurance policy with regards to data protection and business interruption associated with both security breaches from malicious parties or from certain system failures.

Through the 2003 Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the “Wartime Act”), the federal government has in the past provided war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers, including for losses from terrorism, for passengers, third parties (ground damage), and the aircraft hull. However, since the government-provided supplemental coverage from the Wartime Act was set to expire on September 30, 2014, the Company proactively canceled its government provided war-risk insurance coverage on May 15, 2014, and effective the same date, purchased comparable coverage via the commercial insurance marketplace. Although the Company was able to purchase comparable coverage via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance in the future could be more expensive and/or have material differences in coverage than is currently provided and may not be adequate to protect the Company's risk of loss from future acts of terrorism.

Competition

Competition within the airline industry is intense and highly unpredictable, and Southwest currently competes with other airlines on virtually all of Southwest's scheduled routes. As a result of improved economic conditions and an increased focus by airlines on costs, the airline industry has become increasingly competitive in recent years with healthier financial condition and improved profitability.

Key competitive factors within the airline industry include (i) pricing and cost structure; (ii) routes, frequent flyer programs, and schedules; and (iii) customer service, comfort, and amenities. Southwest also competes for customers with other forms of transportation, as well as alternatives to travel. In recent years, the majority of domestic airline service has been provided by Southwest and the other largest major U.S. airlines, including American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, United Airlines, and US Airways. In 2013, the parent company of American Airlines emerged from bankruptcy and merged with US Airways Group, Inc. The merged entity is the parent company of the following operating carriers: American Airlines, American Eagle Airlines (branded as Envoy beginning in 2014), US Airways, US Airways Shuttle, and US Airways Express. The DOT defines the major U.S. airlines as those airlines with annual revenues of at least$1 billion; there are currently15passenger airlines offering scheduled service, including Southwest, meeting this standard.

Pricing and Cost Structure

Pricing is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the availability of fare information on the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. Pricing can be driven by a variety of factors. For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors and/or cash flow. In addition, multiple airlines have been able to reduce fares because they have been able to lower their operating costs as a result of reorganization within and outside of bankruptcy. Further, some of the Company’s competitors have continued to grow and modernize their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one mile), which in turn may enable them to lower their fares. These factors can reduce the pricing power of the Company and the airline industry as a whole.

The Company believes its low-cost operating structure continues to provide it with an advantage over many of its airline competitors by enabling Southwest to continue to charge low fares. The Company also believes it has gained a competitive advantage by differentiating Southwest from all of its major competitors by not charging additional fees










for items such as first and second checked bags, flight changes, seat selection, fuel surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations.

Routes, Frequent Flyer Programs, and Schedules

The Company also competes with other airlines based on markets served, frequent flyer opportunities, and flight schedules. Some major airlines have more extensive route structures than Southwest, including more extensive international networks. In addition, many competitors have entered into significant commercial relationships with other airlines, such as global alliances, codesharing, and capacity purchase agreements, which increase the airlines’ opportunities to expand their route offerings. For example, an alliance or codesharing agreement enables an airline to offer flights that are operated by another airline and also allows the airline’s customers to book travel that includes segments on different airlines through a single reservation or ticket. As a result, depending on the nature of the specific alliance or codesharing arrangement, a participating airline may be able to (i) offer its customers access to more destinations than it would be able to serve on its own, (ii) gain exposure in markets it does not otherwise serve, or (iii) increase the perceived frequency of its flights on certain routes. Alliance and codesharing arrangements not only provide additional route flexibility for participating airlines, they can also allow these airlines to offer their customers more opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles or points. A capacity purchase agreement enables an airline to expand its route structure by paying another airline (

e.g.,

a regional airline with smaller aircraft) to operate flights on its behalf in markets that it does not, or cannot, serve itself. The Company continues to evaluate and implement initiatives to better enable Southwest to offer additional itineraries. In addition, the Company’s acquisition of AirTran enabled the Company to (i) expand its presence in key markets Southwest already served, (ii) grow the Company’s presence in key markets Southwest did not previously serve, (iii) extend service to smaller domestic cities Southwest did not previously serve, and (iv) provide access to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and key near-international markets in the Caribbean and Mexico.

Customer Service, Comfort, and Amenities

Southwest also competes with other airlines in areas of Customer Service such as ontime performance, passenger amenities, flight equipment type, and comfort. According to statistics published by the DOT, Southwest consistently ranks at or near the top among domestic carriers in Customer Satisfaction for having the lowest Customer complaint ratio. Some airlines have more seating options and associated passenger amenities than does Southwest, including first-class, business class, and other premium seating and related amenities. Additionally, some major U.S. airlines have announced plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets. Such efforts could provide cost benefits to these airlines through fleet simplification, improved fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. Additionally, such new aircraft could have newer and different passenger amenities than those contained in the Company’s existing fleet. The Company is addressing this competitive factor with its fleet modernization initiatives, which are discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Fleet Modernization” and “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Continued Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet.”

Other Forms of Competition

The airline industry is subject to varying degrees of competition from surface transportation by automobiles, buses, and trains. Inconveniences and delays associated with air travel security measures can increase surface competition. In addition, surface competition can be significant during economic downturns when consumers cut back on discretionary spending and fewer choose to fly, or when gasoline prices are lower, making surface transportation a less expensive option. Because of therelatively highpercentage of short-haul travel provided by Southwest, it is particularly exposed to competition from surface transportation in these instances. The airline industry is also subject to competition from alternatives to travel such as videoconferencing and the Internet, which can increase in the event of travel inconveniences and economic downturns. The Company is subject to the risk that air travel inconveniences and economic downturns may, in some cases, result in permanent changes to consumer behavior in favor of surface transportation and electronic communications.

Seasonality

The Company’s business is seasonal. Generally, in most markets the Company serves, demand for air travel is greater during the summer months, and therefore, revenues in the airline industry tend to be stronger in the second (April 1 - June 30) and third (July 1 - September 30) quarters of the year than in the first (January 1 - March 31) and










fourth (October 1 - December 31) quarters of the year. As a result, in many cases, the Company’s results of operations reflect this seasonality. Factors that could alter this seasonality include, among others, the price of fuel, general economic conditions, extreme or severe weather, fears of terrorism or war, or changes in the competitive environment. Therefore, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.

Employees

At

December 31, 2014

, the Company had

46,278

active fulltime equivalent Employees, consisting of

20,013

flight,

2,632

maintenance,

15,739

ground, Customer, and fleet service, and

7,894

management, technology, finance, marketing, and clerical personnel (associated with non-operational departments). Approximately



different collective-bargaining agreements (“CBAs”). AirTran Employees in certain labor groups have fully transitioned to Southwest Employees under a single contract. The following table sets forth the Company’s Employee groups and the status of the respective CBAs as of

December 31, 2014

:
















Employee GroupApproximate Number of EmployeesRepresentativesStatus of Agreement

Southwest Pilots7,500Southwest Airlines Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”)In negotiations

Southwest Flight Attendants11,850Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 556 (“TWU 556”)In negotiations

Southwest Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, Freight Agents10,000Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 555 (“TWU 555”)In negotiations

Southwest Customer Service Agents, Customer Representatives5,800International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO (“IAM 142”)Amendable December 2018

Southwest Material Specialists (formerly known as Stock Clerks)250International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 19 (“IBT 19”)In negotiations

Southwest Mechanics2,100Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (“AMFA”)In negotiations

Southwest Aircraft Appearance Technicians200AMFAAmendable February 2017

Southwest Facilities Maintenance Technicians40AMFAIn negotiations

Southwest Dispatchers250Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 550 (“TWU 550”)Amendable November 2015

Southwest Flight Simulator Technicians30International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“IBT”)Amendable October 2015

Southwest Flight Crew Training Instructors70Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 557 (“TWU 557”)Amendable December 2015

Southwest Meteorologists6TWU 550In November 2014, the Southwest Meteorologists voted in favor of union representation.

AirTran Flight Attendants350Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (“AFA”)The parties have negotiated an interim collective bargaining agreement to be effective until affected former AirTran Employees complete Southwest training and become Southwest Flight Attendants.



Additional Information About the Company

The Company was incorporated in Texas in 1967. The following documents are available free of charge through the Company’s website, www.southwest.com: the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These materials are made available through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition to its reports filed or furnished with the SEC, the Company publicly discloses material information from time to time in its press releases, at annual meetings of Shareholders, in publicly accessible conferences and investor presentations, and through its website (principally in its Press Room and Investor Relations pages).














DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the Company’s forward-looking statements, which represent the Company’s views only as of the date this report is filed. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.



