Item 1. Business

Company Overview

Southwest Airlines Co. (the “Company” or “Southwest”) is a major passenger airline that provides scheduled air
transportation in the United States. The Company commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. The Company ended 2010 with 548 Boeing 737 aircraft
serving 69 cities in 35 states throughout the United States, and has announced its plans to begin service in March 2011 to two new states and three new cities: Charleston, South Carolina; Greenville-Spartanburg, South Carolina; and Newark, New
Jersey. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation, as of September 30, 2010, the Company was the largest domestic air carrier in the United States, as measured by the number of originating
passengers boarded.

The Company principally provides point-to-point, rather than hub-and-spoke, service. This allows the
Company to maximize the use of key assets, including aircraft, gates, and Employees, and also facilitates the Company’s ability to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. The Company’s point-to-point
service is discussed in more detail below under “Company Operations — Route Structure.”

For the 38thconsecutive year, the Company was profitable, earning $459 million.

Proposed Acquisition of AirTran

On September 26, 2010, the Company entered into a merger agreement providing for the Company’s acquisition of AirTran Holdings, Inc. (“AirTran”). Closing of the transaction is subject
to the approval of AirTran stockholders, receipt of Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and certain other regulatory clearances, and fulfillment of customary closing conditions. If the merger is completed, each outstanding share of AirTran
common stock will be converted into the right to receive 0.321 shares of Southwest common stock and $3.75 in cash, without interest. The number of shares of Southwest common stock and, under some circumstances, the cash consideration to be
received is subject to adjustment based on the Company’s share price prior to closing. This adjustment mechanism will provide at least $7.25 in value and up to $7.75 in value (based on the Company’s share price prior to closing) per share
of AirTran common stock. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the merger, the merger agreement, and the exchange ratio adjustment mechanism.

AirTran will hold a special meeting of its stockholders to vote on the proposal to approve the merger agreement. If the merger agreement
is approved and other required clearances are obtained, the Company anticipates closing of the transaction will occur in the second quarter of 2011. As discussed further under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations,” the acquisition would allow the Company to immediately and significantly expand and diversify its network and thereby provide a near-term growth opportunity not otherwise available to the Company.

Industry

The airline
industry is a volatile industry and is subject to various challenges. Among other things, it is cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, heavily regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. It is
also particularly susceptible to detrimental events such as acts of terrorism, poor weather, and natural disasters. In recent years, the industry has been particularly negatively affected by high and volatile fuel prices. In addition, during 2008
and most of 2009, the industry was significantly challenged by a worldwide credit crisis and a difficult U.S. economic environment. This led to a tightening of corporate travel policies, which in turn resulted in a reduction in business travel
demand and a decrease in the percentage of full-fare purchases. This also led to a decrease in discretionary spending by leisure travelers. The U.S. airline industry generally responded to these challenges by reducing capacity (number of available
seats) in 2008 and 2009. Although the U.S. economic environment experienced moderate recovery




during 2010, (i) the economy, as well as consumer behavior patterns, remained uncertain; (ii) fuel prices increased significantly over 2009; and (iii) the U.S. airline industry
generally continued to exercise capacity restraint. The resulting leaner flight schedules, along with improving demand and fares, have led to significant improvements in industry load factors (percentage of seats filled by fare-paying passengers).

Company Operations

Route Structure

The Company’s point-to-point service also enables it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights. Examples of markets offering frequent daily flights are: Dallas Love Field to
Houston Hobby, 25 weekday roundtrips; Phoenix to Las Vegas, 14 weekday roundtrips; and Los Angeles International to Oakland, 14 weekday roundtrips. The Company complements these high-frequency short-haul routes with long-haul, nonstop service
between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Las Vegas and Orlando, and San Diego and Baltimore. As of December 31, 2010, the Company served 460 non-stop city pairs.

Cost Structure

A key component of the Company’s business strategy is its low cost structure, which is designed to allow it to profitably charge low fares. Adjusted for stage length, the Company has lower unit
costs, on average, than most major carriers. The Company’s low cost structure is currently facilitated by the Company’s reliance upon a single aircraft type, its operationally efficient point-to-point route structure, and
its highly productive Employees. The Company’s current use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737, enables it to simplify scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, and training activities. The Company’s point-to-point route structure
includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland, San Jose, Providence, Ft. Lauderdale/Hollywood,
and Long Island Islip airports. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines’ hub airports, which enables the Company to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the
amount of time they are on the ground. This in turn reduces the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be required and allows for high Employee productivity (headcount per aircraft).







Impact of Fuel Costs

For the sixth consecutive year, Fuel and oil expense represented the Company’s largest or second largest cost. The table below shows
the Company’s average cost of jet fuel and oil over the past six years and during each quarter of 2010:



YearCost(Millions)AverageCostPerGallonPercent ofOperatingExpenses2005$1,470$1.1321.4%2006$2,284$1.6428.0%2007$2,690$1.8029.7%2008$3,713$2.4435.1%2009$3,044$2.1230.2%2010$3,620$2.5132.6%First Quarter 2010$821$2.4931.9%Second Quarter 2010$933$2.5033.3%Third Quarter 2010$926$2.4732.6%Fourth Quarter 2010$940$2.5932.4%





Operating Strategies and Initiatives

As discussed above under
“Industry,” going into 2010, the Company’s operations reflected the impact during 2008 and most of 2009 of a worldwide credit crisis and significant economic recession, which had severely depressed the demand for air travel,
especially from higher yield customers. In response, the Company developed short-term and long-term initiatives designed to increase unit revenues, improve the Customer experience, and control costs. During 2010, despite a moderate improvement in
the U.S. economic environment, the Company continued to focus on these areas. The Company’s actions led to an improvement in its operating results during 2010 despite a significant increase in fuel prices compared to 2009.







Network Optimization; Revenue Management

During 2010, the Company continued to approach route expansion through optimization of its flight schedule. The Company’s
implementation during 2009 of an enhanced profitability analysis tool has provided the Company with visibility into profitability and network contribution by flight. This has enabled the Company to manage capacity by trimming unprofitable and less
popular flights in certain markets and then reallocating the capacity to new markets, as well as existing markets with higher demand. It has also enabled the Company to manage capacity through more seasonal flying in specific markets and to publish
additional itineraries with enhanced connecting opportunities. During 2010, network optimization allowed the Company to redeploy capacity, open new cities, and add frequencies in key cities despite an increase in capacity of less than one percent
over 2009. The efforts contributed to record annual and monthly load factors for 2010. The Company continues to evaluate opportunities to improve its revenue and pricing technology.

Aggressive Promotion of the Company’s Low Fare Brand and Points of Differentiation from its Competitors

During 2010, the Company continued to benefit from, and aggressively market, its points of differentiation from its competitors.

The Company’s Fare Structure.The Company employs a relatively simple fare
structure, featuring low, unrestricted, unlimited, everyday coach fares, as well as even lower fares available on a restricted basis. The Company bundles fares into three major categories: “Wanna Get Away®,” “AnytimeSM,” and “Business Select®,” with the goal of making it easier for Customers to choose the fare they prefer.



•“Wanna Get Away” fares are generally the lowest fares and are subject to advance purchase requirements. They are also non-refundable, but may
be applied to future travel on Southwest Airlines.



•“Anytime” fares are refundable and changeable and may also be applied toward future travel on Southwest Airlines.



•“Business Select” fares are refundable and changeable and may be applied toward future travel on Southwest Airlines. Business Select fares
also include additional perks such as priority boarding, bonus frequent flyer credit, priority security access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage (for Customers of legal drinking age).

Aggressive Marketing Campaign.The Company is the only major U.S. airline that does not
impose additional fees for first or second checked bags. During 2010, through its “Bags Fly Free®”
marketing campaign, the Company continued to aggressively promote this point of differentiation from its competitors. The Company believes its decision not to charge for first and second checked bags, as reinforced by the Company’s related
marketing campaign, has driven an increase in the Company’s market share and a resulting significant increase in revenues.

The Company is also the only major U.S. airline that does not impose a fee for a Customer’s change in flight plans. In January 2011,
the Company introduced a marketing campaign to promote this point of differentiation from its competitors. The campaign highlights the importance to the Company of Customer Service by showing that the Company understands plans can change and
therefore does not charge a change fee. While a Customer may pay a difference in airfare, the Customer will not be charged a change fee on top of any difference in airfare.

Also unlike most of its competitors, the Company does not impose additional fees for items such as seat selection, fuel surcharges,
snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations. During 2010, the Company also changed its stroller/car seat policy to allow each ticketed Customer to check one stroller and one car seat free of charge, in addition to the two free checked
bags.







Enhancements to Southwest.com

In 2010, the Company completed a comprehensive rebuild of its southwest.com website for the purpose of, among other things, providing
more product options, driving better booking rates, and improving ancillary revenues. The 2010 enhancements include improved navigation capabilities that make it easier for Customers to locate what they need. Any part of a trip can now be planned
directly from the home page, and the website can now recognize a Customer’s home airport and provide offers relevant to the Customer. The website can also remember a Customer’s most recent searches to make it easier for the Customer to
shop for flights, cars, and hotels, and includes a shopping cart functionality that allows a customer to purchase air, hotel, and car all at once. Customers can now also book unaccompanied minor travel online. The website also highlights points of
differentiation between the Company and other air carriers, as well as the fact that southwest.com is the only place where Customers can purchase Southwest fares online.

During 2010, southwest.com accounted for approximately 79 percent of all Southwest Airlines bookings. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2010, nearly 84 percent of the Company’s
Passenger revenues came through its website (including revenues from SWABIZ, the Company’s business travel reservation web page).

Increased Targeting of Business Travelers

The Company offers
several products that have been designed to attract additional business/full fare travelers.

Business
Select.As discussed above, the Company’s “Business Select” product includes perks such as priority boarding, bonus frequent flyer credit, priority security access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage. The
Company’s “Business Select” program contributed approximately $88 million in revenue premiums during 2010, up from $72 million in revenues during 2009.

“Fly By®” Priority Lanes.The Company has introduced Fly By Priority Lane access for its Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members at many of its
airports. Fly By Priority lanes are priority access lanes located at ticket counters and security checkpoints. The lanes allow Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members direct access to the front of the line at the ticket counter
and/or security checkpoint.

Enhanced Rapid Rewards®Frequent Flyer Program.As discussed further below under “Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program,” the
Company has announced enhancements to its frequent flyer program that will better reward the Company’s most loyal customers.

SWABIZ®.SWABIZ is the Company’s business travel
reservation web page. SWABIZ allows business travelers to plan, book, and purchase Ticketless Travel on Southwest Airlines and to efficiently obtain their lowest fares and maximum frequent flyer credit.

In addition, as discussed below under “Inflight Internet Connectivity,” the Company has begun installing its fleet with
equipment to provide WiFi connectivity.

Ancillary Services and Fees

During 2010, the Company experienced revenue benefits from its addition in 2009 of new service offerings such as the Company’s
EarlyBird Check-in™ and Pets Are Welcome on Southwest (PAWS) products. EarlyBird Check-in allows Customers to obtain an early boarding position directly behind Business Select and A-List Customers by adding an additional $10 to the price of a
one-way fare (priority boarding privileges are already included in the purchase of a Business Select fare and are a benefit of being an A-List frequent flyer – see “Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program” below). The Company’s PAWS
offering allows Customers to bring small cats







and dogs into the aircraft cabin for a $75 one-way fare. During 2010, the Company also increased its service charge for Customers who travel as an unaccompanied minor from $25 to $50 one-way to
address the costs to the Company related to the administrative work and extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. The Company’s 2010 revenues from EarlyBird Check-in, PAWS, and unaccompanied minor services charges were
$119 million, an increase of $95 million from 2009.

The Company also expects to benefit from new ancillary revenue
opportunities created by its scheduled launch in March 2011 of a new and improved Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program, which is discussed in detail below under “Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program.”

International Connect

During 2010, the Company continued its work towards implementing international marketing alliances and codesharing relationships. Although the Company terminated its agreement with WestJet to offer
connecting service between the United States and Canada, in November 2010, the Company launched a new service that allows its Customers to book international flights by connecting with Volaris, Mexico’s second largest airline. Southwest
Customers can book travel from 20 Southwest cities to five Volaris Mexican destinations (Cancun, Guadalajara, Morelia, Toluca/Mexico City, and Zacatecas). The new service connects through Los Angeles International Airport, Oakland International
Airport, and San Jose International Airport and currently creates up to 85 additional flight itineraries. Behind the scenes, the Company’s international connect portal conducts two separate transactions – one with the Company’s
reservation system and one with Volaris’s reservation system. Tying the two systems together provides Customers with an easy booking experience, one low fare, allows for thru-checking of luggage, and blends the airlines’ flight schedules.

Inflight Internet Connectivity

In 2010, the Company entered into an equipment purchase contract with Row 44 to allow for an inflight satellite (broadband) WiFi offering, rather than the air-to-ground service used by several of the
Company’s competitors. As of January 31, 2011, WiFi connectivity was available on more than 60 aircraft, and the Company expects these installations to continue on its remaining 737-700 fleet. The Company’s arrangement with
Row 44 enables the Company to control the pricing of the service, which has initially been set at an introductory flat rate of $5.00 per flight for any device or flight length.

Proactive Customer Communications

During 2010, the Company enhanced the capabilities of its Automated Outbound Messaging (“AOM”) service. The Company’s AOM capability, which was originally launched in August 2008, enables
it to (i) proactively deliver customized automated telephone messages to Customers when there has been a significant change (or potential disruption) to their flight such as a cancellation, gate change, or flight delay; and (ii) give
Customers the option to connect to a Customer Representative in the case of cancelled flights. In 2010, for Customers who book their travel on southwest.com, the Company began providing Customers with the option to receive these alerts via SMS
texting. The new SMS strategy is designed to increase proactive Passenger outreach, reduce inbound calls, improve contact center management, and save costs. In addition to providing flight information to Customers using their preferred method, if
applicable, the Company also directs Customers to southwest.com/rebook.

Ongoing Revenue Initiatives

In 2010, the Company announced its plans to implement a new reservations system to better enable international operations either via a
codeshare arrangement or with the Company’s own aircraft. In addition, the







Company announced that it will be introducing the Boeing 737-800 to its fleet in 2012, which would enable the Company to (i) more economically serve longhaul routes, including extended
routes over water; (ii) more economically serve capacity constrained airports; and (iii) boost fuel efficiency.

Cost Controls

During 2010, the Company continued its efforts to contain costs and preserve its low cost advantage and low-fare brand. The Company has addressed costs through the network optimization discussed above, as
well as through other cost reduction and process improvement initiatives such as the following:



•Installation of blended winglets, which reduce draft and increase fuel efficiency, on 454 of its aircraft;



•Engine washes, which conserve fuel;



•Use of electric ground power for aircraft air and power at the gate;



•Deployment of auto-throttle and vertical navigation to maintain optimum cruising speeds, which contributes to fuel savings and reduced carbon
emissions; and



•Continued control of capital spending, which was reduced to under $500 million for 2010.

In addition, during 2010, the Company took significant steps towards Required Navigation Performance (“RNP”) operations. RNP is
one of the cornerstones of the Federal Aviation Administration’s (“FAA”) strategy to modernize the U.S. Air Traffic Control System by addressing limitations on air transportation capacity and making more efficient use of airspace. RNP
combines the capabilities of advanced aircraft avionics, GPS (Global Positioning System) satellite navigation (instead of less-precise ground-based navigation), and new flight procedures to (i) enable aircraft to carry navigation capabilities
rather than relying on airports; (ii) improve operational capabilities by opening up many new and more direct approach paths to produce more efficient flight patterns; and (iii) conserve fuel, improve safety, and reduce carbon emissions.
The Company began developing GPS approach procedures during the first quarter of 2010, completed RNP training of its nearly 6,000 pilots in November 2010, and commenced RNP procedures in revenue service at 11 airports on January 11, 2011. In
the first week of RNP activation, over 600 fuel efficient RNP approaches were safely executed.

Rapid Rewards Frequent
Flyer Program

Current Program.The Company offers a frequent flyer program, Rapid Rewards,
which currently allows Customers to earn credits towards free flights based on trips flown. Rapid Rewards Members currently can earn a credit for each one-way trip flown or two credits for each roundtrip flown. They can also currently earn credits
by using the services of non-airline “Preferred Partners,” which include, for example, car rental agencies, hotels, restaurants, and retail locations, as well as by using the Southwest Airlines Rapid Rewards Visa Signature Card. As
discussed further below under “New Program,” in March 2011, the Company plans to launch a new Rapid Rewards program.

The Company’s current Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program offers three different types of travel awards (“Awards”): the
Standard Award, the Freedom Award, and the Companion Pass. Rapid Rewards Members also have the opportunity to become “A-List” Customers and receive priority boarding privileges.

Standard Awards.Rapid Rewards Members who accumulate 16 credits within 24 consecutive months
automatically receive a Standard Award in their account. Standard Awards are valid for one free roundtrip to any destination available on Southwest Airlines. Standard Awards are valid for 12 months after issuance and are subject to seat
restrictions.

Freedom Awards.Rapid Rewards Members who have earned two Standard Awards may
convert those Awards into a Freedom Award, which is free of seat restrictions except for a limited number of “Black-out” dates around major holidays. Freedom Awards are valid for 12 months from the date of the Standard Award with the
earliest expiration date (or, for a $50 fee, 12 months from the date the Standard Awards are converted) and are subject to seat restrictions.







Companion Passes.Rapid Rewards Members who earn 100
credits within a consecutive 12-month period automatically receive a Companion Pass, which provides for unlimited free roundtrip travel to any destination available on Southwest Airlines for a designated companion of the qualifying Rapid Rewards
Member. The Rapid Rewards Member and designated companion must travel together on the same flight. Companion Passes are valid for 12 months after issuance, but are not subject to seat restrictions or blackout dates.

Priority Boarding Privileges.Rapid Rewards Members who fly at least 32 qualifying one-way flights
within a 12-month period receive priority boarding privileges for an entire year. When these Customers purchase travel at least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best boarding pass number available (generally, an “A”
boarding pass). Customers on this “A-List” are automatically checked in for their flight in advance of departure. These Customers also gain access to “Fly By” priority check-in and security lanes where available.

The Company’s Customers redeemed approximately 3.2 million, 3.0 million, and 2.8 million Awards during 2010, 2009,
and 2008, respectively. The amount of free travel Award usage as a percentage of total Company revenue passenger miles flown was 7.9 percent in 2010, 7.7 percent in 2009, and 8.3 percent in 2008. The number of fully earned Awards and partially
earned Awards outstanding at December 31, 2010, was approximately 13.9 million, of which approximately 79 percent were partially earned Awards. The number of fully earned Awards and partially earned Awards outstanding at December 31,
2009, was approximately 10.3 million, of which approximately 77 percent were partially earned Awards. However, due to the expected expiration of a portion of credits making up partial Awards, not all of them will eventually turn into useable
Awards. In addition, not all Awards will be redeemed for future travel. Since the inception of Rapid Rewards in 1987, approximately 17 percent of all fully earned Awards have expired without being used. The number of Companion Passes outstanding at
December 31, 2010 and 2009 was approximately 76,000 and 65,000, respectively. The Company currently estimates that an average of three to four trips will be redeemed per outstanding Companion Pass.

The Company currently accounts for its Rapid Rewards program obligations by recording a liability for the estimated incremental cost of
the use of flight credits the Company expects to turn into Awards and be redeemed. The estimated incremental cost of these liabilities includes direct Passenger costs such as fuel, food, and other operational costs, but does not include any
contribution to overhead or profit. Revenue from the sale of flight credits to business partners and associated with future travel is deferred and recognized when the ultimate free travel Award is flown or the credits expire unused. The liability
for free travel Awards earned but not used at December 31, 2010 and 2009, including those sold to business partners, was $246 million and $206 million, respectively.

New Program.



e.g.,

e.g.,

however,







opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower fare (including a fare sale) ticket by redeeming fewer points or by being able to redeem more points and book at the last minute if
seats are still available for sale. Rapid Rewards members will also be able to earn points through qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners. In addition, Rapid Rewards Credit Cardmembers will be able to redeem their points for items other
than travel on Southwest Airlines, such as international flights, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. In addition to earning points for revenue flights, Rapid Rewards Members will have the ability to purchase
points.

The new frequent flyer program also features enhanced A-List and Companion Pass programs for the most active members,
and adds a new level of status, “A-List Preferred.” Both A-List and A-List Preferred Members will enjoy benefits such as priority checkin and security lane and ticket counter access, dedicated phone lines, standby priority, and an earnings
bonus on eligible revenue flights (25% for A-List and 100% for A-List Preferred). In addition, A-List Preferred Members will enjoy free Inflight WiFi on equipped flights.

The new program has been designed to drive more revenue by (i) bringing in new Customers; (ii) increasing business from existing Customers; and (iii) strengthening the Company’s Rapid
Rewards hotel, rental car, credit card, and retail partnerships.

Management Information Systems

The Company has continued its commitment to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. During 2010, the
Company completed the integration of a new SAP Enterprise Resource Planning application, which replaced the Company’s general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, benefits, cash management, and fixed asset systems. The
conversion was designed to improve the Company’s key business processes by implementing an integrated tool to increase efficiency, consistency, data accuracy, and cost effectiveness. In addition, the Company has invested in significant
technology necessary to support its new Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program, enhanced southwest.com website, and WiFi implementation. The Company has also made the decision to embark on a project that will result in the replacement of its
reservations system over the next several years.

Regulation

The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the federal government. Examples of regulations affecting the Company and/or the industry are discussed below.

Economic and Operational Regulation

The U.S. Department of Transportation. The U.S. Department of Transportation (the
“DOT”) regulates aviation safety, as well as economic, consumer protection, and civil rights matters. The DOT may impose civil penalties on air carriers for violating its regulations.

To provide passenger transportation in the United States, a domestic airline is required to hold a Certificate of Public
Convenience and Necessity issued by the DOT. A certificate is unlimited in duration, and the Company’s certificate generally permits it to operate among any points within the United States and its territories and possessions. Additional DOT
authority, in the form of a certificate or exemption from certificate requirements, is required for a U.S. airline to serve foreign destinations either with its own aircraft or via codesharing with another airline. The DOT may revoke a certificate
or exemption, in whole or in part, for intentional failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders, or the terms of the certificate itself.

The DOT’s consumer protection and enforcement activities relate to areas such as unfair and deceptive practices and
unfair competition by air carriers, deceptive airline advertising (e.g.,fare, on-time performance, schedule, and codesharing), and violations of rules concerning denied boarding compensation, ticket refunds,







and baggage liability requirements. The DOT is also charged with prohibiting discrimination by airlines and focuses on ensuring that individuals with disabilities obtain nondiscriminatory access
to the air transportation system and that the public is not subjected to unlawful discrimination by airlines on the basis of race, religion, national origin, or sex during the course of their air transportation.

Most recently, in 2010, a new DOT consumer protection rule (the “Passenger Protection Rule”) went into effect
to address, among other matters, tarmac delays and chronically delayed flights (i.e.,flights that operate at least 10 times a month and arrive more than 30 minutes late more than 50 percent of the time during that month). Under the Passenger
Protection Rule, U.S. passenger airlines are required to adopt contingency plans that include the following: (i) the assurance that no domestic flight will remain on the airport tarmac for more than three hours unless the pilot-in-command
determines there is a safety-related or security-related impediment to deplaning passengers or air traffic control advises the pilot-in-command that returning to the gate or permitting passengers to disembark elsewhere would significantly disrupt
airport operations; (ii) the assurance that carriers will provide adequate food and potable drinking water no later than two hours after the aircraft leaves the gate (in the case of departure) or touches down (in the case of arrival) if the
aircraft remains on the tarmac, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security considerations preclude such service; and (iii) the assurance of operable lavatories, as well as adequate medical attention, if needed. Air carriers
are required to publish their contingency plans on their websites.

The Passenger Protection Rule also
subjects airlines to potential DOT enforcement action for unfair and deceptive practices in the event of chronically delayed flights. Airlines are required to (i) display ontime performance on their websites; (ii) adopt customer service
plans, publish those plans on their website, and audit their own compliance with their plans; (iii) designate an employee to monitor the performance of their flights; and (iv) provide information to passengers on how to file complaints and
respond in a timely and substantive fashion to consumer complaints. Airlines that violate the Passenger Protection Rule are subject to potential fines of up to $27,500 per passenger, the maximum allowed for violating any aviation consumer rule. The
DOT has expressed its intent to aggressively investigate alleged violations of the Passenger Protection Rule. In June 2010, the DOT proposed a new rule that would expand the Passenger Protection Rule by, among other things, (i) increasing the
maximum denied boarding compensation airlines must pay to passengers bumped from flights from $800 to $1,300; (ii) allowing passengers to make and cancel reservations within 24 hours without penalty; and (iii) strengthening the DOT’s
enforcement policies concerning air transportation price advertising practices.

Aviation
Taxes. The statutory authority for the federal government to collect aviation taxes, which are used, in part, to finance the nation’s airport and air traffic control systems, and the authority of the FAA to expend those funds must
be periodically reauthorized by the U.S. Congress. This authority was originally scheduled to expire on September 30, 2007, but Congress has approved a series of extensions of this authority, with the most recent extension set to expire on
March 31, 2011. Congress is currently expected to adopt FAA reauthorization legislation sometime in 2011. Other proposals that could be considered by Congress in connection with the FAA reauthorization legislation include: (i) the
imposition of new, or changes to, aviation-specific taxes; (ii) an increase in the amount of airport passenger facility charges; and (iii) the adoption of new unfunded mandates on commercial airlines such as new environmental, consumer,
and labor standards, any of which could have an impact on the Company’s operations.

The Wright
Amendment. Section 29 of the International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979, as amended (commonly known as the “Wright Amendment”), prohibited the carriage of nonstop and through passengers on commercial flights
between Dallas Love Field and all states outside of Texas, with the exception of the following states (the “Wright Amendment States”): Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Originally, the
Wright Amendment permitted an airline to offer flights between Dallas Love Field and the Wright Amendment States only to the extent the airline did not offer or provide any through service or ticketing with another air carrier at Dallas Love Field
and did not market service to or from Dallas Love Field and any point outside of a Wright Amendment State. In other words, a Customer could not purchase a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any destination other than a







Wright Amendment State. The Wright Amendment did not restrict flights operated with aircraft having 56 or fewer passenger seats, nor did it restrict the Company’s intrastate Texas flights or
its air service to or from points other than Dallas Love Field. In 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with the City of Dallas, the City of Fort Worth, American Airlines, Inc., and the DFW International Airport Board, pursuant to which
the five parties sought enactment of legislation to amend the Wright Amendment. Congress responded by passing the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006, which immediately repealed the original through service and ticketing restrictions by allowing the
purchase of a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any U.S. destination (while still requiring the Customer to make a stop in a Wright Amendment State), and reduced the maximum number of gates available for commercial air service at
Dallas Love Field from 32 to 20. The Company currently has access to 16 gates at Dallas Love Field. Pursuant to the Wright Amendment Reform Act and local agreements with the City of Dallas with respect to gates, the Company can expand scheduled
service from Dallas Love Field and currently intends to do so. The Wright Amendment Reform Act also provides for substantial repeal of the remainder of the Wright Amendment in 2014.

Operational, Safety and Health Regulation

The Company and its third-party maintenance providers are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to the Company’s aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground
facilities, dispatch, communications, flight training personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain, and the Company has obtained, operating, airworthiness, and
other certificates. These certificates are subject to suspension or revocation for cause. In addition, pursuant to FAA regulations, the Company has established, and the FAA has approved, the Company’s operations specifications and a maintenance
program for the Company’s aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls. The FAA, acting through its own powers or through the appropriate U.S. Attorney, also has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition
and collection of fines for violation of the Federal Aviation Regulations.

In September 2010, the FAA issued a Notice of
Proposed Rulemaking (“NPRM”) proposing certain changes to flight and duty time limitations and rest requirements for pilots. The FAA’s proposed amendments would (i) increase to nine hours the minimum opportunity for rest prior to
the duty period; (ii) establish a new method for measuring a pilot’s rest period, so that the pilot would be assured the opportunity to receive at least eight hours of sleep during that rest period; (iii) place weekly and 28-day
limits on the amount of time a pilot may be assigned any type of duty; and (iv) require pilots to be given at least 30 consecutive hours free from duty on a weekly basis, a 25 percent increase over the current rules. Moreover, in January 2010,
the DOT issued an NPRM with regards to lithium batteries carried on commercial aircraft. If adopted, the DOT proposal could significantly impact the Company’s cargo operations.

The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to occupational safety and health,
including Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Food and Drug Administration regulations.

Security
Regulation

Pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (“ATSA”), the Transportation Security
Administration (the “TSA”), a division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, is responsible for certain civil aviation security matters. ATSA and subsequent TSA regulations and procedures implementing ATSA address, among other
things, (i) flight deck security; (ii) the use of federal air marshals onboard flights; (iii) airport perimeter access security; (iv) airline crew security training; (v) security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo,
mail, employees, and vendors; (vi) training and qualifications of security screening personnel, (vii) provision of passenger data to U.S. Customs and Border Protection; and (viii) background checks. Under ATSA, substantially all
security screeners at airports are federal employees, and significant other elements of airline and airport security are overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal
air marshals. TSA-mandated security procedures can affect the Company’s operations, costs, and Customer experience. For example, in 2006, the TSA implemented







security measures regulating the types of liquid items that can be carried onboard aircraft. In 2009, the TSA introduced its Secure Flight program. Secure Flight requires airlines to collect a
passenger’s full name (as it appears on a government-issued ID), date of birth, gender, and Redress Number (if applicable). Airlines must transmit this information to Secure Flight, which uses the information to perform matching against
terrorist watch lists. After matching passenger information against the watch lists, Secure Flight transmits the matching results back to airlines. This serves to identify individuals for enhanced security screening and to prevent individuals on
watch lists from boarding an aircraft. It also helps prevent the misidentification of passengers who have names similar to individuals on watch lists. In 2010, the TSA also implemented enhanced security procedures as part of its enhanced,
multi-layer approach to airport security by employing advanced imaging technology (full body scans), as well as new physical pat down procedures, at security checkpoints. Such enhanced security procedures have raised privacy concerns by some air
travelers.

Enhanced security measures have also impacted the Company’s business through the imposition of security fees
on the Company’s Customers and on the Company. Under ATSA, funding for passenger security is provided in part by a $2.50 per enplanement security fee (the “9/11 Fee”), subject to a maximum of $5.00 per one-way trip. Congress may
consider an increase in the 9/11 Fee, as well as other changes to ATSA, as part of future security-related legislation. ATSA also allows the TSA to assess an Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee (“ASIF”) on each airline. The Company’s
ASIF liability was originally set at $26 million per year. Effective for calendar year 2005, the TSA unilaterally increased the amount by an additional $24 million to a total of $50 million annually. The Company and 22 other airlines joined in
litigation against the TSA to challenge the agency’s increase to their respective ASIF fees. In February 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the increased fees were excessive and remanded the matter
to the TSA to determine the amount of the excess. In June 2010, the TSA made a partial refund of $18 million to the Company and reduced its fees going forward by $3.5 million annually. The Company and other airlines have petitioned the Court of
Appeals to invalidate the TSA’s action and require it to make larger refunds and reductions.

The Company has made
significant investments to address the effect of security regulations, including investments in facilities, equipment, and technology to process Customers efficiently and restore the airport experience; however, the Company is not able to predict
the ongoing impact, if any, that various security measures will have on Passenger revenues and the Company’s costs, both in the short-term and the long-term.

Environmental Regulation

The federal government, as well as several state and local governments,
are considering legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change by reducing green house gas emissions. At the federal level, the Environmental Protection Agency’s Endangerment Finding in January 2010 regarding greenhouse gas
emissions set the stage for possible legislative or regulatory action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from various







segments of the economy, including from aviation. The airline industry could be affected directly through new unfunded mandates or indirectly through higher fuel costs as fuel providers pass on
any additional costs to fuel consumers. Regardless of the method of regulation, policy changes with regards to climate change are possible, which could significantly increase operating costs in the airline industry and, as a result, adversely affect
operations.

The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 gives airport operators the right, under certain circumstances, to
implement local noise abatement programs, so long as they do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Some airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including
restrictions on aircraft types to be used, and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of operations. These types of restrictions can cause curtailments in service or increases in operating costs and could limit the ability of
the Company to expand its operations at the affected airports.

As part of its commitment to corporate
sustainability, the Company has published the Southwest One ReportTMdescribing the Company’s sustainability strategies, which include efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address other environmental matters such as energy and water conservation, waste
minimization, and recycling. As discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Cost Controls,” the Company has also committed significant resources towards implementation of RNP procedures, which are designed to conserve
fuel and reduce carbon emissions. In addition, the Company’s “Green Team” targets areas of environmental improvement in all aspects of the Company’s business, while at the same time remaining true to the Company’s low cost
philosophy.

Insurance

The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and at amounts deemed adequate to protect the Company and its property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain of
the Company’s credit and lease agreements. The policies principally provide coverage for public and passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or damage to aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers’
compensation.

Through the 2003 Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the “Wartime Act”), the federal
government has provided renewable, supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates and for levels of coverage not available in the commercial market. The
government-provided supplemental coverage from the Wartime Act is currently set to expire on September 30, 2011. Although another extension beyond this date is expected, if such coverage is not extended by the government, the Company could
incur substantially higher insurance costs or unavailability of adequate coverage in future periods.

Competition

Competition within the airline industry is intense and highly unpredictable, and the Company currently competes with other airlines on a
majority of its routes. Key competitive factors within the domestic airline industry include pricing, routes, scheduling, Customer Service, comfort, and cost structure. The Company also competes for customers with other forms of transportation, as
well as alternatives to travel.

Pricing in the airline industry can be driven by a variety of factors. For example, airlines
often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors and cash flow. In addition, some airlines have been able to lower their operating costs (and thereby have been able to reduce fares)
as a result of reorganization within and outside of bankruptcy. These factors can reduce the pricing power of the airline industry as a whole. In addition, the increased availability of fare information on the Internet allows travelers to easily
compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. The Company believes its low cost operating structure provides it with a significant competitive advantage over other airlines because it







enables the Company to continue to profitably charge competitive fares. In addition, the Company does not tack on additional fees for items such as first and second checked bags, flight changes,
seat selection, fuel surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations.

e.g.,

The Company also competes with other airlines in areas of Customer Service such as ontime performance, passenger amenities, equipment
type, and comfort. According to statistics published by the DOT, the Company consistently ranks at or near the top for Customer Satisfaction for having the lowest Customer complaint ratio.

The airline industry is subject to varying degrees of competition from surface transportation by automobiles, buses, and trains.
Inconveniences and delays associated with air travel security measures can increase such surface competition. In addition, surface competition can be significant during economic downturns when consumers cut back on discretionary spending. Because of
the relatively high percentage of shorthaul travel provided by the Company, it is particularly exposed to competition from such surface transportation in these instances. The airline industry is also subject to competition from alternatives to
travel such as videoconferencing and the Internet, which can also increase in the event of travel inconveniences and economic downturns. The Company is subject to the risk that air travel inconveniences and economic downturns may, in some cases,
result in permanent changes to consumer behavior in favor of surface transportation and electronic communications.

Seasonality

The Company’s business is somewhat seasonal. Generally, in most markets the Company serves, demand for air
travel is greater during the summer months, and therefore, revenues in the airline industry tend to be stronger in the second (April 1 – June 30) and third (July 1 – September 30) quarters of the year than in the first (January 1
– March 31) and fourth (October 1 – December 31) quarters of the year. As a result, in many cases, the Company’s results of operations reflect this seasonality. Factors that could alter this seasonality include,
among others, the price of fuel, general economic conditions, extreme or severe weather, fears of terrorism or war, or changes in the competitive environment. Therefore, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily
indicative of operating results for the entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.







Employees

At December 31, 2010, the Company had 34,901 active fulltime equivalent Employees, consisting of 15,069 flight, 2,464 maintenance, 15,205 ground, Customer, and fleet service, and 2,163 management,
accounting, marketing, and clerical personnel.



Employee GroupRepresentativesStatus of AgreementPilotsSouthwest Airlines Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”)Amendable August 2012Flight AttendantsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO (“TWU 556”)Amendable May 2013Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, Freight AgentsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 555 (“TWU 555”)Amendable June 2011Customer Service Agents, Customer RepresentativesInternational Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO (“IAM”)Amendable October 2012Stock ClerksInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 19 (“IBT Local 19”)Currently in negotiationsMechanicsAircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (“AMFA”)Amendable August 2012Aircraft Appearance TechniciansAMFACurrently in negotiationsDispatchersTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 550 (“TWU 550”)Currently in negotiationsFlight Simulator TechniciansInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (“IBT”)Amendable October 2013Flight Crew Training InstructorsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 557 (“TWU 557”)Amendable December 2012







Additional Information About the Company

The Company was incorporated in Texas in 1967. The following documents are available free of charge through the Company’s website,
www.southwest.com: the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These materials are made available through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.







DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the
Company’s forward-looking statements, which represent the Company’s views only as of the date this report is filed. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new
information, future events, or otherwise.



