Item 1.Business

Company Overview

Southwest Airlines Co. (the “Company”) operates Southwest Airlines (“Southwest”) and AirTran Airways (“AirTran”), major passenger airlines that provide scheduled air transportation in the United States and near-international markets. For the41stconsecutive year, the Company was profitable, earning$754 millionin net income.

Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. Including the operations of both Southwest and AirTran, the Company ended 2013 serving96destinations in41states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, andfivenear-international countries including Mexico (Cancun, Mexico City, and Cabo San Lucas), Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), Aruba (Oranjestad), and Dominican Republic (Punta Cana). AtDecember 31, 2013, Southwest’s and AirTran’s combined active fleet consisted of680aircraft, including614Boeing 737s and66Boeing 717s. The Company reached a major milestone in 2013 by completing the connection of the Southwest and AirTran networks. Customers can now fly between any of the combined96Southwest and AirTran destinations on a single itinerary.

In 2013, Southwest added service to two new states (Maine and Kansas) and ten new U.S. cities: Branson, Missouri; Charlotte, North Carolina; Flint, Michigan; Rochester, New York; Portland, Maine; Wichita, Kansas; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Memphis, Tennessee; Pensacola, Florida; and Richmond, Virginia. The addition of the new Southwest service establishes a Southwest presence in all domestic cities in Southwest’s and AirTran’s combined network. In 2013, Southwest also commenced service to San Juan, Puerto Rico, Southwest’s first scheduled service outside of the continental United States. As part of its network optimization efforts, the Company has announced its plans to cease Southwest operations in Branson, Missouri; Key West, Florida; and Jackson, Mississippi beginning in June 2014. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation, as of September 30, 2013, Southwest was the largest domestic air carrier in the United States, as measured by the number of domestic originating passengers boarded.

During fourth quarter 2013 the Company took steps to supplement its existing service at New York LaGuardia Airport by acquiring 12 takeoff and landing slots (for six roundtrip flights) at LaGuardia (a “slot” is the right of an air carrier, pursuant to regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), to operate a takeoff or landing at a specific time at certain airports). The acquired slots were divested by AMR Corporation, the parent company of American Airlines, Inc., as part of its merger with US Airways Group, Inc. Also in connection with the divestiture, the Company gained ownership through the purchase of ten takeoff and landing slots (for five roundtrip flights) at LaGuardia that it previously operated under a lease from American. The Company plans to supplement its existing Southwest service utilizing these newly acquired slots at LaGuardia beginning in May 2014. In January 2014, the Company was notified of its winning bid to acquire 54 takeoff and landing slots (for 27 roundtrip flights) at Washington Reagan National Airport, which must be divested in connection with the merger between American and US Airways. The acquisition of these slots, which is subject to final approval of the Department of Justice and customary written agreements, will supplement the Company's existing service at Washington Reagan.

While AirTran continues to service certain domestic cities and all of the Company’s international markets, the Company has announced plans to convert AirTran’s remaining domestic and international service into Southwest service by the end of 2014.










Southwest principally provides point-to-point, rather than hub-and-spoke, service. This has enabled it to maximize the use of key assets, including aircraft, gates, and Employees, and has also facilitated its ability to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. Point-to-point service is discussed in more detail below under “Company Operations - Route Structure.”  AirTran has historically provided hub-and-spoke, rather than point-to-point, service, with approximately half of AirTran’s flights historically originating or terminating in Atlanta, Georgia. As part of its integration efforts, the Company has begun optimizing its operations in many AirTran cities, primarily by transitioning Atlanta to a point-to-point operation, which is enabling efficiencies related to the scheduling of aircraft, flight crews, and ground staff.

Industry

The airline industry has historically been an extremely volatile industry subject to numerous challenges. Among other things, it has been cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. The airline industry has also been particularly susceptible to detrimental events such as acts of terrorism (for example, 9/11), poor weather, and natural disasters. In addition, in recent years the industry has been significantly affected by an uncertain economy, high and volatile fuel prices, and government sequestration and shutdown. These factors have contributed to unpredictable demand for air travel and related cost and pricing challenges. Reflecting the numerous industry challenges, from 2001 through 2012 total financial losses for the U.S. airline industry exceeded$50 billion. As a result, many U.S. airlines have ceased operations or reorganized through bankruptcy.

Although the U.S. economy has experienced a moderate recovery since emerging from a recession in 2009 and the U.S. airline industry has showed measurable improvement during2013, slow economic growth and lingering economic uncertainty have led to continued industry restraint with respect to overall capacity (number of available seats). Although some U.S. air carriers, including Southwest, experienced modest year-over-year increases in capacity during2013, overall domestic airline industry capacity in2013remained below pre-recession levels. Leaner flight schedules over the past several years, along with industry consolidation, have contributed to improvements in industry load factors (percentage of seats filled by fare-paying passengers) and yields (revenue production per passenger mile).

Company Operations

Route Structure

General

Southwest principally provides point-to-point service, rather than the “hub-and-spoke” service provided by most major U.S. airlines. The hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline’s operations at a limited number of central hub cities and serves most other destinations in the system by providing one-stop or connecting service through a hub. By not concentrating operations through one or more central transfer points, Southwest’s point-to-point route structure has allowed for more direct non-stop routing than hub-and-spoke service. For2013, approximately72percent of Southwest’s Customers flew non-stop, and Southwest’s average aircraft trip stage length was693miles, with an average duration of approximately1.9hours. For2012, approximately72percent of Southwest’s Customers flew non-stop, and Southwest’s average aircraft trip stage length was678miles, with an average duration of approximately1.9hours.

Southwest’s point-to-point service has also enabled it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers25weekday roundtrips from Dallas Love Field to Houston Hobby,11weekday roundtrips from Phoenix to Las Vegas,12weekday roundtrips from Burbank to Oakland, and12weekday roundtrips from Los Angeles International to Oakland. Southwest complements these high-frequency shorthaul routes with longhaul non-stop service between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Las Vegas and Orlando, San Diego and Baltimore, and Houston and New York LaGuardia. As ofDecember 31, 2013, Southwest served524non-stop city pairs.

Unlike Southwest, AirTran has historically operated largely through a hub-and-spoke network system, with approximately half of its flights historically originating or terminating at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. As part of its integration efforts, the Company has begun optimizing its operations in many AirTran cities, primarily by transitioning Atlanta to a point-to-point operation, which is enabling efficiencies related to the scheduling of aircraft, flight crews, and ground staff.










International Service

Southwest does not currently provide international service; however, in April 2013, the Company began converting AirTran service to San Juan, Puerto Rico, into Southwest service, Southwest’s first scheduled service outside of the continental United States. In connection with launching this service, Southwest obtained the necessary FAA approvals to conduct operations, under certain circumstances, outside of the continental United States.

In addition to service to San Juan, Puerto Rico, AirTran also currently provides service tosevendestinations in five near-international countries including Mexico (Cancun, Mexico City, and Cabo San Lucas), Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), Aruba (Oranjestad), and Dominican Republic (Punta Cana). The Company expects to convert AirTran’s service to thoseseveninternational markets into Southwest service by the end of 2014.

In January 2014, the Company began selling its first international itineraries to be flown by Southwest aircraft and announced plans to begin Southwest service to Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), and Aruba (Oranjestad) beginning July 1, 2014. The Company expects to launch Southwest international service to Mexico (Cancun, Mexico City, and Cabo San Lucas) and Dominican Republic (Punta Cana) by the end of 2014.

As part of the Company's near-international service efforts, the Company has agreed with the City of Houston (“City”) to expand the City's existing William P. Hobby airport facility. Pursuant to the agreement, the Company and the City have entered into an Airport Use and Lease Agreement to control the execution of this expansion and its financial terms. This project provides for a new five-gate international terminal with international passenger processing facilities, expansion of the existing security checkpoint, and upgrades to the Southwest ticketing counter area. Construction began during third quarter 2013 and is estimated to be completed during the second half of 2015. Additional information regarding this project is provided below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In December 2013, the Company entered into an agreement with Broward County, Florida, which owns and operates Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, to oversee and manage the design and construction of the airport’s Terminal 1 Modernization Project. In addition to significant improvements to the existing Terminal 1, the project includes the design and construction of a new five-gate Concourse A with an international processing facility. Construction is expected to begin in 2014. Additional information regarding this project is provided below under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company’s2013operating revenues attributable to foreign operations (all of which were attributable to AirTran) were approximately$212 million. The remainder of the Company’s2013operating revenues, approximately$17.5 billion, were attributable to domestic operations. The Company’s2012operating revenues attributable to foreign operations (all of which were attributable to AirTran) were approximately$159 million. The remainder of the Company’s2012operating revenues, approximately$16.9 billion, were attributable to domestic operations. The Company’s tangible assets primarily consist of flight equipment, the majority of which are interchangeable and are deployed systemwide, with no individual aircraft dedicated to any specific route or region; therefore, the Company’s assets are not allocated to a geographic area. For a discussion of the risks related to the Company’s foreign operations, see “Risk Factors - The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by its expansion into non-U.S. jurisdictions and the related increase in laws to which it is subject.”

Cost Structure

General

A key component of the Company’s business strategy has historically been its low-cost structure, which was designed to allow Southwest to profitably charge low fares. Adjusted for stage length, Southwest has lower unit costs, on average, than the vast majority of major domestic carriers. The Company’s low-cost structure has historically been facilitated by Southwest’s use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737, an operationally efficient point-to-point route structure, and highly productive Employees. Southwest’s use of a single aircraft type has allowed for simplified scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, and training activities. Southwest’s point-to-point route structure includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland, San Jose, Providence, and Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines’ hub airports, which










has enabled Southwest to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they are on the ground. This, in turn, has reduced the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be required and allows for high Employee productivity (headcount per aircraft).

The Company believes that its fleet modernization initiatives, as well as the continued addition of the larger Boeing 737-800 to the Southwest fleet, will have a favorable impact on the Company’s unit costs. These strategic initiatives are discussed in more detail below under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Fleet Modernization” and “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Continued Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet.”

Impact of Fuel Costs on the Company’s Low-Cost Structure

In2013, the Company again experienced significant Fuel and oil expense as fuel prices, although lower than levels reached in2012, remained at high levels. In addition, for theninthconsecutive year, Fuel and oil expense represented the Company’s largest or second largest cost and was the Company’s largest cost for thethirdconsecutive year. The table below shows the Company’s average cost of jet fuel and oil over the pastelevenyears and during each quarter of2013.

YearCost(Millions)AverageCost PerGallonPercentage ofOperatingExpenses2003$920$0.8016.5%2004$1,106$0.9218.1%2005$1,470$1.1321.4%2006$2,284$1.6428.0%2007$2,690$1.8029.7%2008$3,713$2.4435.1%2009$3,044$2.1230.2%2010$3,620$2.5132.6%2011$5,644$3.1937.7%2012$6,120$3.3037.2%2013$5,763$3.1635.1%First Quarter 2013$1,457$3.3636.3%Second Quarter 2013$1,489$3.1135.4%Third Quarter 2013$1,450$3.1034.9%Fourth Quarter 2013$1,367$3.0833.8%

The Company enters into fuel derivative contracts to manage its risk associated with significant increases in fuel prices; however, because energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time, the Company must also continually monitor and adjust its fuel hedge portfolio and strategies to address not only fuel price increases, but also fuel price volatility and hedge collateral requirements. Although jet fuel prices were less volatile in2013than in some previous years, they remain at high levels and continue to be subject to extreme volatility based on a variety of factors. In addition, the cost of hedging has increased in recent years with current sustained high jet fuel prices and the potential for volatility in the fuel market. The Company’s fuel hedging activities are discussed in more detail below under “Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fare Structure

Southwest

Southwest offers a relatively simple fare structure that features competitive, unrestricted, unlimited, everyday coach fares, as well as lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest bundles fares into three major categories: “Wanna Get Away®,” “AnytimeSM,” and “Business Select®,” with the goal of making it easier for Customers to choose the fare they prefer.

•“Wanna Get Away” fares are generally the lowest fares and are subject to advance purchase requirements. They are nonrefundable but, subject to compliance with Southwest’s No Show policy, funds may be










applied to future travel on Southwest. As discussed below under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Ancillary Services and Fees,” during 2013, Southwest implemented a No Show policy associated with Wanna Get Away tickets that are not canceled or changed at least ten minutes prior to a flight’s scheduled departure.

•“Anytime” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may also be applied toward future travel on Southwest. Anytime fares also include a higher frequent flyer point multiplier under Southwest’s Rapid Rewards®frequent flyer program than do Wanna Get Away fares.

•“Business Select” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may be applied toward future travel on Southwest. Business Select fares also include additional perks such as priority boarding, a higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest fares (including twice as many points per dollar spent as compared to Wanna Get Away fares), priority security and ticket counter access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage coupon for the day of travel (for Customers of legal drinking age).

AirTran

AirTran also offers a user-friendly fare structure that features a variety of competitive fares and products. Unlike Southwest, AirTran currently offers a Business Class product. With the exception of Business Class fares, all AirTran fares are nonrefundable, but can be changed prior to departure, subject to payment of a service charge. AirTran Business Class fares are refundable and changeable and include additional perks such as priority boarding, oversized seats with additional leg room, bonus frequent flyer credit, no first or second bag fees, and complimentary cocktails onboard. In addition, AirTran’s Business Class product can be purchased separately or through an upgrade of a non-Business Class fare within 24 hours of travel.

Websites

Southwest.com and AirTran.com

The Company’s Internet website, southwest.com®, is the only avenue for Southwest Customers to purchase and manage travel online. Any part of a Customer’s trip can be planned directly from the southwest.com home page. Southwest.com is designed to help make the Customer's experience personal and intuitive with features such as recognizing the Customer's location to provide relevant deals, remembering recent searches to make it easy to get to trips of interest, and shopping cart functionality allowing Customers to purchase air, hotel, and car all at once.  Southwest.com highlights points of differentiation between Southwest and other air carriers, as well as the fact that southwest.com is the only place where Customers can purchase Southwest fares online. In addition, southwest.com and swabiz.com (the Company’s business travel reservation web page) are available in a translated Spanish version, which provides Customers who prefer to transact in Spanish the same level of Customer Service provided by the English versions of the websites. Additionally, as discussed further below under "Other Initiatives - Mobile Website and Mobile Boarding Passes," Southwest offers Customers a mobile website and apps to provide Customers the ability to transact with Southwest anytime they have access to their mobile device.

The Internet is also an integral part of AirTran’s distribution network. In addition to being user-friendly and simple, AirTran’s website is designed to sell tickets efficiently. AirTran.com allows Customers to easily book and manage their travel, including the ability to retrieve and change future flight reservations, make seat selections, and check in online. As part of the Company's network connectivity efforts, Customers can now book AirTran flights on southwest.com, including itineraries that include both an AirTran and Southwest flight.

During2013, southwest.com and airtran.com together accounted for approximately80percent of all of the Company’s bookings. In addition, for the year endedDecember 31, 2013, approximately84percent of the Company’s Passenger revenues came through its websites (including revenues from SWABIZ®).

Operating Strategies and Initiatives

During2013, the Company continued to focus on five strategic initiatives: (i) the integration of Southwest’s and AirTran’s network and operations, (ii) fleet modernization, (iii) the continued incorporation of the larger Boeing 737-800 aircraft into the Southwest fleet, (iv) international capabilities and new reservation system, and (v) the continued growth of Southwest's Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program. In addition to the Company’s five strategic










initiatives, the Company has continued to design, implement, and manage other initiatives to increase revenues, improve cost controls, and attract and retain Customers.

Strategic Initiatives

Integration of Southwest’s and AirTran’s Network and Operations

The Company remains on track with its plan to fully integrate Southwest’s and AirTran’s network and operations by the end of 2014. During2013, the Company continued the process of integrating AirTran into its operations and accomplished the following key integration milestones:

•The Company fully deployed connecting capabilities between the Southwest and AirTran networks allowing Customers of both Southwest and AirTran to book connecting itineraries between the two carriers. Customers can now fly between any of the combined96Southwest and AirTran destinations on a single itinerary.

•The Company continued to transfer AirTran Employees to Southwest. As ofDecember 31, 2013, approximately65 percentof AirTran Employees had been converted to Southwest Employees. The transfer of all remaining AirTran Employees, including flight crews and dispatchers whose transition is aligned with aircraft conversion, is scheduled for 2014.

•The Company continued to further optimize its route network by, among other things, transitioning AirTran’s operations at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport to a point-to-point operation, which is expected to enable efficiencies related to the scheduling of aircraft, flight crews, and ground staff.

•The Company continued to convert AirTran 737-700 aircraft to the Southwest livery. As ofDecember 31, 2013,17out of a total of52AirTran 737-700 aircraft had completed the conversion process and re-entered service as Southwest aircraft. The Company expects to convert the remaining35AirTran 737-700 aircraft during 2014 in conjunction with the expected conversion of AirTran’s seven international markets.

•The Company continued its schedule optimization efforts by further coordinating Southwest and AirTran flight schedules.

•The Company significantly grew the Southwest network by converting AirTran service to Southwest service in several new markets. The Company has established a Southwest presence in all domestic cities in Southwest’s and AirTran’s combined network.

•The Company continued its progress towards integrating Southwest’s and AirTran’s unionized workforce. AirTran’s Flight Attendants, represented by the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (“AFA”), voted to ratify a new collective-bargaining agreement with the Company. The collective-bargaining agreement became amendable in May 2013. This new agreement will apply to the AirTran Flight Attendants until they transition to Southwest. All AirTran Flight Attendants are expected to be moved to Southwest by the end of 2014.

Fleet Modernization

As discussed below, the Company has multiple efforts underway to replace its older aircraft with newer aircraft that are less maintenance intensive and more fuel efficient and that also have a greater range. The Company expects its longterm fleet modernization plan to provide substantial flexibility to manage its fleet needs in a variety of economic conditions. The Company’s future aircraft delivery schedule is set forth in more detail under “Properties - Aircraft.”

The Boeing 737 MAX.The Company is scheduled to be the launch customer for the new Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, which is designed to be more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly than the Company’s current Boeing aircraft. The Company has placed firm orders for170of the Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft and expects to begin to take delivery in2017. Additionally, in 2013 the Company placed a firm order for30of the Boeing 737 MAX 7 aircraft and expects to begin to take delivery in2019. The Company also has options to purchase an additional191Boeing 737 MAX aircraft during the period from 2021 through 2027. The Company believes the 737 MAX will (i) have the lowest operating unit costs in the single-aisle segment and (ii) benefit the Company with an engine/airframe combination that is uniquely designed to optimize operating performance of the Company’s fleet.










The Boeing Next-Generation 737.The Company has also expanded its orders for the Boeing Next-Generation 737 aircraft. From 2012 through 2013, the Company purchased45Boeing Next-Generation 737-800 aircraft and leased, from third parties,sevenBoeing 737-800 aircraft andtwoBoeing 737-700 aircraft. Including the 737 MAX firm orders described above, the Company has overall total firm orders with Boeing of308aircraft for 2014 through 2024. Additionally, for 2014 and 2015, combined, the Company has agreed to purchase, as of January 22, 2014,15pre-owned 737-700 aircraft from third parties and has agreed to leasetwo737-700 aircraft from a third party. The orders and leases are intended to predominately serve as replacement aircraft in the Company’s fleet as it retires older 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft and transitions the 717-200 aircraft out of the Company’s fleet. The Company also has options with Boeing to purchase an additional36Boeing 737 Next-Generation aircraft during the period from 2016 through 2018.

Southwest Cabin Refresh.During 2013 the Company completed the retrofit of Southwest’s 737-700 fleet with an updated cabin interior.Evolve: The New Southwest Experienceis intended to enhance Customer comfort, personal space, and the overall travel experience, while improving fleet efficiency and being environmentally responsible. The cabin refresh features recyclable carpet, a brighter color-scheme, and more durable, eco-friendly, and comfortable seats that weigh less than the prior seats. By maximizing the space inside the plane,Evolveallows for the added benefit of six additional seats on each retrofitted aircraft, along with more climate-friendly and cost-effective materials. The Company also retrofitted 78 of its 737-300 aircraft withEvolvein 2013. In addition to the 737-700 and 737-300 retrofits, the 737-800 aircraft entering the Company’s fleet also feature theEvolveinterior. The17AirTran 737-700 aircraft that had been converted to Southwest livery as ofDecember 31, 2013, have received the newEvolveinterior, and the remaining35AirTran 737-700 aircraft are scheduled to receive the newEvolveinterior at the time of conversion to the Southwest fleet.

Transition of Boeing 717 Aircraft.Pursuant to an agreement with Delta Air Lines, Inc. and Boeing Capital Corp., during 2013 the Company began leasing or subleasing AirTran’s 88 Boeing 717-200 aircraft to Delta. Deliveries to Delta began in September 2013 and are expected to continue at the rate of approximatelythreeaircraft per month. As ofDecember 31, 2013,22of AirTran’s Boeing 717-200 aircraft had been removed from service and13had been delivered to Delta. From a fleet management perspective, this transition allows the Company to minimize the impact of this transaction on operations, as the Boeing 717 capacity lost is expected to be replaced through the capacity gained as a result of (i) the Company’s extension of the retirement dates for a portion of its 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft and (ii) deliveries from Boeing of new 737 aircraft or deliveries of used 737 aircraft from other sources. Transitioning the Boeing 717 fleet to Delta avoids added complexity to the Company’s operations, as the Company has historically operated an all-Boeing 737 fleet. Replacement of the Boeing 717 aircraft capacity with Boeing 737 capacity provides revenue opportunities with more seats per aircraft, while costing approximately the same amount to fly on a per-trip basis as the smaller Boeing 717 aircraft.

Continued Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet

To further support its fleet modernization efforts, during


, the Company continued to incorporate the Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest fleet. The 737-800’s all coach seating configuration of 175 offers significantly more Customer seating capacity than Southwest’s other aircraft. In addition to the 737-800’s added seating capacity, its configuration includes The Boeing Company’s Sky Interior, which features a quieter cabin, improved operational security features, and LED reading and ceiling lighting. In addition, the domestic airline industry has experienced a decline in shorthaul flying since 2000, and the 737-800 allows the Company to adjust its route network to allow for more longhaul flying. The Company expects the 737-800 will continue to enable it to (i) more economically serve longhaul routes; (ii) improve scheduling flexibility and more economically serve high-demand, slot-controlled, and gate-restricted airports by adding seats to such markets without increasing the number of flights; and (iii) boost fuel efficiency to reduce overall unit costs. Additionally, the Company expects the 737-800 will enable Southwest to profitably expand to new destinations, including extended routes over water, and potentially fly to more distant markets such as Hawaii, Alaska, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and other near-international locations. The Company has taken delivery of


Boeing 737-800 aircraft from 2012 through 2013 and currently expects to take delivery of an additional


and


Boeing 737-800s during 2014 and 2015, respectively. The Company’s fleet composition and delivery schedule is discussed in more detail below under “Properties - Aircraft.”










International Capabilities and New Reservation System

In January 2014, the Company launched an international reservation system and began selling its inaugural international daily nonstop service to be flown by Southwest aircraft beginning July 1, 2014, to Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), and Aruba (Oranjestad). In this first phase of the Company’s international conversion plan, AirTran will continue service between Atlanta and Nassau and between Chicago Midway and Montego Bay, as well as flights to/from Cancun, Mexico City, and Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. The Company expects to complete the launch of Southwest service to Mexico (Cancun, Mexico City, and Cabo San Lucas) and Dominican Republic (Punta Cana), AirTran’s remaining four international destinations, by the end of 2014. The Company worked with Amadeus IT Group to implement Amadeus’ Altea reservations solution to support the Company’s international service.

The Company also intends to replace Southwest’s existing domestic reservation system with a comprehensive system that would provide Southwest with the ability to serve both domestic and international markets. The Company is currently in the planning stages of this multi-year project, and intends to select the vendor in the first half of 2014.

Continued Growth of Southwest’s Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program

In March 2011, Southwest launched its current Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program, under which members earn points for every dollar spent. The amount of points earned under the program is based on the fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g.,Wanna Get Away). Each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. Likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the fare and fare class purchased. Under the program (i) members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire so long as the Rapid Rewards Member has points-earning activity during the most recent 24 months.

Under the program, members continue to accumulate points until the time they decide to redeem them. As a result, the program provides members significant flexibility and options for earning and redeeming rewards. For example, members can earn more points (and/or achieve tiered status such as A-List and Companion Pass faster) by purchasing higher fare tickets. Members also have significant flexibility in redeeming points, such as the opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower fare (including many fare sales) ticket by redeeming fewer points or by being able to redeem more points and book at the last minute if seats are still available for sale. Rapid Rewards Members can also earn points through qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners (which include, for example, car rental agencies, hotels, restaurants, and retail locations), as well as by using Southwest’s co-branded Chase®Visa credit card. In addition, holders of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card are able to redeem their points for items other than travel on Southwest, such as international flights on other airlines, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. In addition to earning points for revenue flights and qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners, Rapid Rewards Members also have the ability to purchase points.

Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program also features enhanced A-List and Companion Pass programs for the most active members and includes “A-List Preferred” status. Both A-List and A-List Preferred Members enjoy benefits such as “Fly By®” priority checkin and security lane access, where available, as well as dedicated phone lines, standby priority, and an earnings bonus on eligible revenue flights (25 percent for A-List and 100 percent for A-List Preferred). In addition, A-List Preferred Members enjoy free inflight WiFi on equipped flights. Rapid Rewards Members who attain A-List or A-List Preferred status receive priority boarding privileges for an entire year. When these Customers purchase travel at least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best boarding pass number available (generally, an “A” boarding pass). “A-List” or “A-List Preferred” Customers are automatically checked in for their flight in advance of departure. Rapid Rewards Members who fly 100 qualifying one-way flights or earn 110,000 qualifying points in a calendar year automatically receive a Companion Pass, which provides for unlimited free roundtrip travel for one year to any destination available on Southwest for a designated companion of the qualifying Rapid Rewards Member. The Rapid Rewards Member and designated companion must travel together on the same flight.

Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program has been designed to drive more revenue by (i) bringing in new Customers, including new Rapid Rewards Members, as well as new holders of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card; (ii) increasing business from existing Customers; and (iii) strengthening the Company’s Rapid Rewards hotel, rental car, credit card, and retail partnerships. To date, the program has exceeded the Company’s










expectations with respect to the number of frequent flyer members added,the amount spent per member on airfare, the number of flights taken by members, the number of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card holders added, the number of points sold to business partners, and the number of frequent flyer points purchased by program members.

AirTran’s A+ Rewards frequent flyer program currently offers a number of ways to earn free travel, including bonus earnings for Business Class travel. A+ Rewards members currently can earn a credit for each one-way trip flown or 1.5 credits for one-way Business Class travel. A+ Rewards credits currently can also be earned for purchases made with an AirTran Airways A+ Visa card or an AirTran A+ Rewards Chase Visa credit card, qualifying car rentals from Hertz, for purchases from other A+ Rewards partners, and in conjunction with marketing promotions that AirTran may run from time to time. A+ Rewards members currently may purchase A+ Rewards credits, extend the expiration of A+ credits, or give A+ credits to another member to help earn a free flight faster.

The Company has enabled Customers to transfer their loyalty rewards between the Southwest and AirTran frequent flyer programs. As a result, members have the benefit of the entire combined network for redemption.

For the Company’s2013consolidated results, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately5.4 millionflight awards, accounting for approximately9.5percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For the Company’s2012consolidated results, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately4.5 millionflight awards, accounting for approximately9.0percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For the Company’s 2011 consolidated results, which include AirTran results from May 2, 2011, through December 31, 2011, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately3.7 millionflight awards, accounting for approximately8.6percent of revenue passenger miles flown. The Company’s accounting policies with respect to its frequent flyer programs are discussed in more detail in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other Initiatives

Network Optimization and Revenue Management



Cost Containment

Over the last several years, the Company has undertaken a number of cost-containment projects for the purpose of preserving Southwest’s low-cost advantage and low-fare brand. These have included the fleet modernization and network optimization strategies discussed above. Among other things, fleet modernization has contributed to lower maintenance and repair expenses, and network optimization is enabling Employee scheduling efficiencies.

In addition, these cost-containment projects have included various fuel conservation and carbon emission reduction initiatives such as the following:

•installation of blended winglets, which reduce drag and increase fuel efficiency, on all Boeing 737-700 and 737-800 aircraft in Southwest’s fleet and on a majority of Southwest’s 737-300 aircraft;

•commitment to upgrade the Company’s 737-800 fleet during the 2014-2015 timeframe with newly designed, split scimitar winglets;










•periodic engine washes;

•use of electric ground power for aircraft air and power at the gate and for ground support equipment at select locations;

•deployment of auto-throttle and vertical navigation to maintain optimum cruising speeds;

•implementation of new engine start procedures to support the introduction of new single engine taxi procedures;

•adjustment of the timing of auxiliary power unit starts on originating flights to reduce auxiliary power unit usage;

•fuel planning initiatives to safely reduce loading of excess fuel;

•Evolvecabin refresh as discussed in "Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Fleet Modernization;"

•reduced aircraft engine idle speed while on the ground, which also increases engine life; and

•galley refresh with dry goods weight reduction.

The Company has also taken significant steps towards Required Navigation Performance (“RNP”) operations which are intended to modernize the U.S. Air Traffic Control System by addressing limitations on air transportation capacity and making more efficient use of airspace. RNP combines the capabilities of advanced aircraft avionics, GPS (Global Positioning System) satellite navigation (instead of less precise ground-based navigation), and new flight procedures to (i) enable aircraft to carry navigation capabilities rather than relying on airports; (ii) improve operational capabilities by opening up many new and more direct airport approach paths to produce more efficient flight patterns; and (iii) conserve fuel, improve safety, and reduce carbon emissions. Southwest began conducting GPS approach procedures during the first quarter of 2010, completed RNP training of nearly 6,000 pilots in November 2010, and commenced RNP procedures in revenue service in January 2011. By the end of


, Southwest had conducted close to

14,000

RNP approaches, including over

4,000

in


. Southwest must rely on RNP approaches published by the FAA, and the rate of introduction of RNP approaches has been slower than expected, with fuel efficient RNP approaches currently available at only


airports. In addition, even at airports with approved RNP approaches, the clearance required from air traffic controllers to perform RNP approaches is sometimes not granted. Southwest continues to work with the FAA to develop more RNP approaches and to modify air traffic control rules to support greater utilization of RNP. As a result of the FAA’s recent lack of emphasis on continuing to implement this technology and the Company’s continued retirement of its older Classic (737-300/500) aircraft, the Company has decided not to equip its Classic aircraft with RNP capabilities.

Aggressive Promotion of the Company’s Points of Differentiation from its Competitors

During2013, the Company continued to benefit from, and aggressively market, Southwest’s points of differentiation from its competitors. For example, Southwest continues to be the only major U.S. airline that does not impose additional fees for first and second checked bags. Through both its national and local marketing campaigns, Southwest has continued to aggressively promote this point of differentiation from its competitors with its “Bags Fly Free®” message. The Company believes its decision not to charge for first and second checked bags on Southwest, as reinforced by the Company’s related marketing campaign, has driven an increase in Southwest’s market share and a resulting net increase in revenues.

Southwest is also the only major U.S. airline that does not impose a fee on any of its fares for a Customer change in flight plans. The Company has continued to incorporate this key point of differentiation in its marketing campaigns. The campaigns highlight the importance to Southwest of Customer Service by showing that Southwest understands plans can change and therefore does not charge a change fee. While a Customer may pay a difference in airfare, the Customer will not be charged a change fee on top of any difference in airfare.

Also unlike most of its competitors, Southwest does not impose additional fees for items such as seat selection, fuel surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations. In addition, Southwest allows each ticketed Customer to check one stroller and one car seat free of charge, in addition to the two free checked bags.

The Company also continues to promote all of the many other reasons to fly Southwest such as its low fares, network size, Customer Service, free live television offerings (discussed below under “Inflight WiFi and Entertainment”), and its Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program.










Business Traveler Amenities

Southwest offers several products that have been designed to attract business/full fare travelers.

Business Select.As discussed above, Southwest’s “Business Select” product includes perks such as priority boarding, a higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest fares (including twice as many points per dollar spent as compared to Wanna Get Away fares), priority ticket counter and security checkpoint access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage coupon for the day of travel (for Customers of legal drinking age).

Fly By®Priority Lanes.Southwest provides Fly By Priority Lane access for its Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members at many of its airports. Fly By Priority Lanes are priority access lanes located at select ticket counters and security checkpoints. The lanes allow Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members direct access to the front of the line at the ticket counter and/or security checkpoint. As ofDecember 31, 2013, Fly By Priority Lane access was available at68airports.

SWABIZ.SWABIZ is Southwest’s business travel reservation web page. SWABIZ allows business travelers to plan, book, and purchase Ticketless Travel on Southwest and to efficiently obtain their lowest fares and maximum frequent flyer credit.

In addition, as discussed below under “Inflight WiFi and Entertainment,” Southwest has continued to install equipment on its fleet to provide access to WiFi connectivity and live television utilizing the Customer's mobile device.

AirTran currently offers Business Class on every flight; however the Company has stated it intends, upon full integration of AirTran, to have a consistent all-coach product offering.

Ancillary Services and Fees

During2013, the Company continued to experience revenue benefits from service offerings such as Southwest’s EarlyBird Check-in®and Pets Are Welcome on Southwest (P.A.W.S.) products. EarlyBird Check-in provides Customers with automatic checkin so Customers are checked in 12 hours before general boarding positions become available, improving Customers' seat selection options. Customers can purchase EarlyBird Check-in for an additional $12.50each way (priority boarding privileges are already included in the purchase of a Business Select fare and are a benefit of being an A-List frequent flyer - see “Southwest’s Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program” above). Southwest’s P.A.W.S. offering allows Customers to bring a small cat or dog into the aircraft cabin for a $95one-way fare. In 2013, as part of the Company’s network connectivity efforts, it began enabling Customers to book a small cat or dog into the aircraft cabin on domestic shared itineraries with AirTran. Southwest also charges an additional $50per one-way trip for unaccompanied minor travel to address the administrative costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. The Company also expects to continue to benefit from ancillary revenue opportunities created by Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program.

During January 2013, Southwest began selling open premium boarding positions systemwide at the gate for a $40charge per flight. Southwest’s sale of open premium boarding positions at the gate provides another early boarding choice for its Customers in addition to Southwest’s “Business Select” product and EarlyBird Check-in. Also in 2013, as part of the Company’s network connectivity efforts, it began enabling Customers booking shared itineraries through AirTran channels to purchase these open premium boarding positions at the gate on Southwest-operated flights.

During second quarter 2013, Southwest announced its implementation of a No Show policy that applies to nonrefundable fares that are not canceled or changed by a Customer at least ten minutes prior to a flight's scheduled departure. If a Customer has booked a nonrefundable fare anywhere in his/her itinerary and that portion of the flight is not used and not canceled or changed by the Customer at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure, all unused funds on the full itinerary will be forfeited, and the remaining reservation will be canceled. This policy does not apply to military fares, senior fares, or travel during certain irregular operations, including severe weather conditions. The No Show policy will not impact Customers who simply cancel a Wanna Get Away or DING!®fare at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure; in this case, Customers may reuse their funds toward future travel on Southwest, without a change fee, as they have always done. Customers who are traveling on a fully refundable itinerary that does not contain a Wanna Get Away or DING! fare will continue to have the option of either requesting a refund or holding funds for future travel. Southwest expects that the No Show policy will promote Customer behavior that will enable Southwest to re-sell the open seat prior to departure.










AirTran currently charges fees for checked baggage, carriage of pets, liquor sales, advance seat assignments, call center services, priority seat selection, special services such as the transportation of unaccompanied minors, and extension or transfer of A+ Miles Rewards (in addition to fees for the purchase of A+ Miles Rewards). The Company intends, upon full integration of AirTran, to have a consistent product offering.

Inflight WiFi and Entertainment

Southwest offers inflight satellite-based WiFi service on all of its 737-700 and 737-800 aircraft, representing over75 percentof Southwest’s fleet. Southwest’s arrangement with its WiFi provider enables the Company to control the pricing of the WiFi service, which is currently $8a day per device, including stops and connections. As discussed below in “Economic and Operational Regulation - Operational, Safety, and Health Regulation,” Southwest’s Customers are now able to use small portable electronic devices to utilize the airline’s onboard WiFi from gate-to-gate when travelling on a Southwest WiFi-equipped airplane. Southwest is currently the only carrier to offer gate-to-gate connectivity.

AirTran currently offers GoGo’s inflight internet connectivity on every Air Tran flight. Gogo establishes the charges for the service, which are based on flight length.

In 2013, Southwest continued to grow the onboard entertainment options on WiFi-equipped aircraft for viewing on Customers’ personal wireless devices. In July 2013, the Company joined with DISH Network to give Customers on WiFi-equipped aircraftfreeaccess to Southwest’s live and on-demand television product. In January 2014, the Company and DISH Network agreed to extend this promotion through the end of 2014. The television product currently consists of17live channels and up to75on-demand recorded episodes from popular television series.

Southwest also added movies-on-demand, which are currently priced at $5per movie and, in December 2013, became the first airline to offer a Messaging-only option for $2a day per device, including all stops and connections. Messaging is currently only available for Apple’s iMessage service, but is expected to expand in early 2014 to other messaging platforms.

Customers do not have to purchase WiFi to access television offerings, movies-on-demand, or the Messaging-only service.

Proactive Customer Communications

The Company’s Automated Outbound Messaging (“AOM”) service enables it to (i) proactively deliver customized automated voice, text, and e-mail messages to Southwest Customers when there has been a change in their flight status as a result of a cancellation or flight delay (of 30 minutes or more), as well as potential disruptions to Southwest’s scheduled service; and (ii) give Southwest Customers the option to connect to a Customer Representative or rebook online in the case of cancelled flights. Southwest Customers who book their travel on southwest.com have the option to receive these notifications via telephone (landline or mobile), SMS texting, or email. In addition to providing flight information to Southwest Customers using their preferred contact method, if applicable, the Company directs Southwest Customers to rebook their flights online via southwest.com/rebook. The AOM strategy is designed to increase proactive Customer outreach and accommodations, reduce inbound calls, improve contact center management, save costs, and provide a better overall experience.

Mobile Website and Mobile Boarding Passes

In 2013, Southwest introduced a new completely redesigned Southwest mobile website and app for iPhone and Android. Southwest added new features and functionality, and also updated the design and navigation to provide a more contextual and personalized online experience than the prior mobile website. With the redesigned mobile experience, Southwest began the rollout of its mobile boarding pass pilot launched during November 2013. The rollout began with single Passengers on nonstop and direct flights originating from Austin, Texas, and Southwest expects to continue the rollout of mobile boarding pass to other cities across its network throughout 2014.

Management Information Systems

The Company has continued its commitment to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. The Company has continued to invest in significant technology necessary to support several of its initiatives, including the implementation of connecting capabilities between the Southwest and AirTran reservation










systems, Southwest’s Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program, enhanced southwest.com website, WiFi implementation, live television connectivity, and its introduction of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft into the Southwest fleet. In addition, the Company has added new reservation system technology to support Southwest's international itineraries and, in January 2014, began selling its first international itineraries to be flown by Southwest aircraft.

The Company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources towards, among other things, (i) continued improvement of its revenue management technical capabilities, (ii) replacement of Southwest's existing domestic reservation system with a comprehensive system that would provide Southwest with the ability to serve both domestic and international markets, and (iii) a new suite of operational tools that the Company expects will improve operational management.

Regulation

The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the federal government. Examples of regulations affecting the Company and/or the industry are discussed below.

Economic and Operational Regulation

Consumer Protection Regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation

The U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) regulates aviation safety, as well as economic operating authority and consumer protection. The DOT may impose civil penalties on air carriers for violating its regulations.

To provide passenger transportation in the United States, a domestic airline is required to hold a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity issued by the DOT. A certificate is unlimited in duration, and the Company’s certificate generally permits it to operate among any points within the United States and its territories and possessions. Additional DOT authority, in the form of a certificate or exemption from certificate requirements, is required for a U.S. airline to serve foreign destinations either with its own aircraft or via codesharing with another airline. The DOT also has jurisdiction over international tariffs and pricing in certain markets. The DOT may revoke a certificate or exemption, in whole or in part, for intentional failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders, or the terms of the certificate itself.

The DOT’s consumer protection and enforcement activities relate to areas such as unfair and deceptive practices and unfair competition by air carriers, deceptive airline advertising (e.g.,fare, ontime performance, schedule, and codesharing), and violations of rules concerning denied boarding compensation, ticket refunds, and baggage liability requirements. The DOT is also charged with prohibiting discrimination by airlines against consumers on the basis of race, religion, national origin, or sex.

Under the above-described authority, the DOT has adopted so-called “Passenger Protection Rules,” which address a wide variety of matters including tarmac delays, chronically delayed flights, denied boarding compensation, and advertising of airfares, among others. Under the Passenger Protection Rules, U.S. passenger airlines are required to adopt contingency plans that include the following: (i) the assurance that no domestic flight will remain on the airport tarmac for more than three hours unless the pilot-in-command determines there is a safety-related or security-related impediment to deplaning passengers or air traffic control advises the pilot-in-command that returning to the gate or permitting passengers to disembark elsewhere would significantly disrupt airport operations; (ii) the assurance that air carriers will provide adequate food and potable drinking water no later than two hours after the aircraft leaves the gate (in the case of departure) or touches down (in the case of arrival) if the aircraft remains on the tarmac, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security considerations preclude such service; and (iii) the assurance of operable lavatories, as well as adequate medical attention, if needed. Air carriers are required to publish their contingency plans on their websites.

The Passenger Protection Rules also subject airlines to potential DOT enforcement action for unfair and deceptive practices in the event of chronically delayed flights (i.e.,flights that operate at least 10 times a month and arrive more than 30 minutes late more than 50 percent of the time during that month). In addition, airlines are required to (i) display ontime performance on their websites; (ii) adopt customer service plans, publish those plans on their website, and audit their own compliance with their plans; (iii) designate an employee to monitor the performance of their flights; (iv) provide information to passengers on how to file complaints; and (v) respond in a timely and substantive fashion










to consumer complaints. Airlines that violate the Passenger Protection Rules are subject to potential fines of up to $27,500per passenger, the maximum allowed for violating any aviation consumer rule.

The Passenger Protection Rules also require airlines to (i) pay up to $1,300in denied boarding compensation to passengers bumped from flights; (ii) refund any checked bag fee for permanently lost luggage; (iii) prominently disclose all potential fees for optional services on their websites; and (iv) refund passenger fees paid for ancillary services if a flight cancels or oversells and a passenger is unable to take advantage of such services.

The Passenger Protection Rules also require that (i)  advertised airfares include all government-mandated taxes and fees; (ii) passengers be allowed to hold a reservation for up to 24 hours without making a payment; (iii) passengers be allowed to cancel a paid reservation without penalty for 24 hours after the reservation is made, as long as the reservation is made at least seven days in advance of travel; (iv) fares may not increase after purchase; (v) baggage fees must be disclosed to the passenger at the time of booking; (vi) the same baggage allowances and fees must apply throughout a passenger’s trip; (vii) baggage fees must be disclosed on e-ticket confirmations; and (viii) passengers must be promptly notified in the event of delays of more than 30 minutes or if there is a cancellation or diversion of their flight.

The DOT has announced its intention to further expand the Passenger Protection Rules, with particular focus on the public disclosure of airline-imposed ancillary fees for the sale of optional products and services. The DOT is reportedly considering, among other things, whether to require airlines to disclose and make such optional products and services available for purchase through all sales channels, including “global distributions systems,” that an airline uses to sell its flights rather than only through proprietary airline websites. The DOT’s proposed expansion of the Passenger Protection Rules is expected to be released in the first half of 2014. The Company is not able to predict the impact of such a requirement on its services, although the Company is likely to be affected to a lesser degree than most other airlines, which generally offer more ancillary products and services. The DOT has expressed its intent to aggressively investigate alleged violations of the Passenger Protection Rules.

The DOT has also proposed new rules that would require airlines to report more information to the DOT on the amount and types of ancillary fees collected from passengers, as well as the number of checked bags and mishandled wheelchairs. The proposal would revise current reporting requirements to increase data collection on the amount airlines receive from different, specific types of fees. The proposed rule would require airlines to report 18 categories of fee revenue. The DOT is expected to issue a final rule in this proceeding in 2014.

Aviation Taxes

The statutory authority for the federal government to collect most types of aviation taxes, which are used, in part, to finance the nation’s airport and air traffic control systems, and the authority of the FAA to expend those funds must be periodically reauthorized by the U.S. Congress. In 2012, Congress adopted the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, which extends most commercial aviation taxes through September 30, 2015. In addition to FAA-related taxes, there are additional federal taxes related to the Department of Homeland Security. These taxes do not need to be reauthorized periodically. However, in an effort to reduce the federal deficit and generate more government revenue, Congress approved legislation in December 2013 that will generate more net federal revenue by (i) increasing the Transportation Security Fee paid by passengers from $

2.50

per passenger segment to $

5.60

per one-way passenger trip, effective July 2014; and (ii) eliminating a duplicative security fee paid by airlines directly, called the Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee, effective October 2014. In 2014, Congress may consider comprehensive tax reform legislation, which could result in a lower corporate tax rate and the elimination of certain tax deductions and preferences, as well as separate legislation that could increase one or more of the passenger-paid fees used to support the operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”). Grants to airports and/or airport bond financing may also be affected through future deficit reduction legislation, which could result in higher fees, rates, and charges at many of the airports the Company serves.

The Wright Amendment

Section 29 of the International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979, as amended (commonly known as the “Wright Amendment”), prohibited the carriage of non-stop and through passengers on commercial flights between Dallas Love Field and all states outside of Texas, with the exception of the following states (the “Wright Amendment States”): Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Originally, the










Wright Amendment permitted an airline to offer flights between Dallas Love Field and the Wright Amendment States only to the extent the airline did not offer or provide any through service or ticketing with another air carrier at Dallas Love Field and did not market service to or from Dallas Love Field and any point outside of a Wright Amendment State. In other words, a Customer could not purchase a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any destination other than a Wright Amendment State. These restrictions did not apply to flights operated with aircraft having 56 or fewer passenger seats. The Wright Amendment also did not restrict Southwest’s intrastate Texas flights or its air service to or from points other than Dallas Love Field.

In 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with the City of Dallas, the City of Fort Worth, American Airlines, Inc., and the DFW International Airport Board, pursuant to which the five parties sought enactment of legislation to amend the Wright Amendment. Congress responded by passing the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006, which immediately repealed the original through service and ticketing restrictions by allowing the purchase of a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any destination (while still requiring the Customer to make a stop in a Wright Amendment State), and reduced the maximum number of gates available for commercial air service at Dallas Love Field from 32 to 20. Pursuant to the Wright Amendment Reform Act and local agreements with the City of Dallas with respect to gates, the Company can expand scheduled service from Dallas Love Field. The Wright Amendment Reform Act also provides for substantial repeal of the remainder of the Wright Amendment in October 2014. At such time Southwest will be able to fly to any U.S. destination from Dallas Love Field unless such destination is restricted or otherwise limited by law. Nonstop international service from Dallas Love Field will continue to be prohibited. The Company currently leases16gates at Dallas Love Field and expects to lease at least16gates at the airport following substantial repeal of the remainder of the Wright Amendment in October 2014.

Operational, Safety, and Health Regulation

The FAA has the authority to regulate safety aspects of civil aviation operations. Specifically, Southwest, AirTran, and their third-party service providers are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, flight training personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. The FAA, acting through its own powers or through the appropriate U.S. Attorney, has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition and collection of fines for violation of the FAA regulations.

To address compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain an air carrier operating certificate and other certificates, approvals, and authorities. Pursuant to FAA regulations, the Company has received a single air carrier operating certificate, in addition to other necessary certificates, approvals, and authorities from the FAA, that allows the Company to operate aircraft and perform maintenance operations for both Southwest and AirTran aircraft, subject to some restrictions. These certificates, approvals, and authorities are subject to suspension or revocation for cause.

In December 2011, the FAA issued a rule to amend the FAA’s flight, duty, and rest regulations. Among other things, the new rule, which went into effect in January 2014, requires a ten hour minimum rest period prior to a pilot’s flight duty period; mandates that a pilot must have an opportunity for eight hours of uninterrupted sleep within the rest period; and imposes new pilot “flight time” and “duty time” limitations based upon report times, the number of scheduled flight segments, and other operational factors. The new rule may reduce the Company’s staffing flexibility, which could impact the Company’s operational performance, costs, and Customer Experience.

In October 2013, the FAA issued guidance that allows airlines to expand passenger use of portable electronic devices (PEDs) during all phases of flight. After conducting appropriate testing and developing necessary operational procedures, the Company received confirmation from the FAA that the Company’s PED program meets the requirements of, and is consistent with, the guidance established by the FAA. As a result, the Company’s Customers are now able to use small PEDs and connect to onboard wireless communications systems, in certain circumstances, from gate to gate. This includes the use of onboard WiFi when travelling on a Southwest WiFi-equipped airplane. Customers travelling on AirTran flights are unable to use GoGo WiFi below 10,000 feet due to GoGo transmission restrictions. Customers may use small PEDs such as smartphones, e-readers, tablets, or MP3 players to read a book, play a built-in game, or listen to their personal music during all phases of flight. However, once the main cabin door is closed, cell phones must be turned off or placed in the device’s airplane/game mode for the duration of the flight. The new FAA policy considers laptops and any device larger than a tablet (generally more than two pounds) as posing a hazard due










to the physical size and weight of the device. Such devices must be stowed in an approved stowage location during taxi, takeoff, and landing.

The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to occupational safety and health, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Food and Drug Administration regulations.

Security Regulation

Beginning in November 2013, Southwest, in conjunction with the TSA and CBP, is participating in TSA PreCheck™, a pre-screening initiative that allows a select group of low risk passengers the ability to move through security checkpoints with greater efficiency and ease when traveling. Eligible passengers may use dedicated screening lanes at certain airports that Southwest serves for screening benefits, which include leaving on shoes, light outerwear and belts, as well as leaving laptops and compliant liquids in carryon bags.

Southwest also participates in the TSA Known Crewmember® program, which is a risk-based screening system that enables TSA security officers to positively verify the identity and employment status of flight-crew members. The program expedites flight crew member access to sterile areas of airports.

The Company has made significant investments to address the effect of security regulations, including investments in facilities, equipment, and technology to process Customers, checked baggage, and cargo efficiently and restore the airport experience; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various security measures or the lack of TSA resources at certain airports will have on Passenger revenues and the Company’s costs, either in the shortterm or the longterm.

Environmental Regulation

The Company is subject to various federal laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern aircraft drinking water, emissions from operations, and the discharge or disposal of materials such as jet fuel, chemicals, hazardous waste, and aircraft deicing fluid. Additionally, in conjunction with airport authorities, other airlines, and state and local environmental regulatory agencies, the Company, as a normal course of business, undertakes voluntary investigation or remediation of soil or










groundwater contamination at several airport sites. The Company does not believe that any environmental liability associated with these airport sites will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, costs, or profitability, nor has it experienced any such liability in the past that has had a material adverse effect on its operations, costs, or profitability. Further regulatory developments pertaining to the control of engine exhaust emissions from ground support equipment could increase operating costs in the airline industry. The Company does not believe, however, that pending environmental regulatory developments in this area will have a material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures or otherwise materially adversely affect its operations, operating costs, or competitive position.

The federal government, as well as several state and local governments, the governments of other countries, and the International Civil Aviation Organization are considering legislative and regulatory proposals and voluntary measures to address climate change by reducing green-house gas emissions. At the federal level, the Environmental Protection Agency’s Endangerment Finding in January 2010 regarding greenhouse gas emissions set the stage for possible legislative or regulatory action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from various segments of the economy, including from aviation. The airline industry could be affected directly through new unfunded mandates or indirectly through higher fuel costs as fuel providers pass on any additional costs to fuel consumers. Regardless of the method of regulation, policy changes with regards to climate change are possible, which could significantly increase operating costs in the airline industry and, as a result, adversely affect operations.

The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 gives airport operators the right, under certain circumstances, to implement local noise abatement programs, so long as they do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Some airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of operations. These types of restrictions can cause curtailments in service or increases in operating costs and could limit the ability of air carriers to expand operations at the affected airports.

As part of its commitment to corporate sustainability, the Company has published the Southwest One ReportTMdescribing the Company’s sustainability strategies, which include efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address other environmental matters such as energy and water conservation, waste minimization, and recycling. As discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Cost Containment,” the Company has also committed significant resources towards implementation of RNP procedures, which are designed to conserve fuel and reduce carbon emissions. In addition, the Company’s “Green Team” targets areas of environmental improvement in all aspects of the Company’s business, while at the same time remaining true to the Company’s low-cost philosophy.

International Regulation

All international service is subject to certain federal requirements and approvals, as well as the regulatory requirements of the appropriate authorities of the foreign countries involved. Southwest and AirTran have obtained the necessary economic authority from the DOT, as well as FAA approvals, to conduct operations, under certain circumstances, outside of the continental United States. To the extent the Company seeks to serve additional international routes in the future, it will be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT and approvals from the FAA, as well as any applicable foreign government or other authority.

Moreover, CBP is the federal enforcement agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security charged with facilitating international trade, collecting import duties, and enforcing U.S. regulations with respect to trade, customs, and immigration. As the Company expands its international flight offerings, CBP will become an increasingly important federal presence. For instance, arriving international flights may only land at CBP-designated airports, and CBP officers must be present and in sufficient quantities to effectively process and inspect arriving international passengers and cargo. Thus, CBP personnel and CBP-mandated procedures can affect the Company’s operations, costs, and Customer experience. The Company will make significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the Customer experience and to assist CBP with the inspection and processing duties; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various CBP measures or the lack of CBP resources will have on Company revenues and costs, either in the short term or the long term.

Insurance

The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and in amounts deemed adequate to protect the Company and its property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain of the Company’s credit










and lease agreements. The policies principally provide coverage for public and passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or damage to aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers’ compensation.

Through the 2003 Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the “Wartime Act”), the federal government has provided war-risk insurance coverage to commercial carriers, including for losses from terrorism, for passengers, third parties (ground damage), and the aircraft hull. The government-provided supplemental coverage from the Wartime Act is currently set to expire on September 30, 2014. It is uncertain whether further extensions will be granted. The withdrawal of government support of airline war-risk insurance would require the Company to obtain war-risk insurance coverage commercially. Such commercial insurance could have material differences in coverage than currently provided by the U.S. government and may not be adequate to protect the Company's risk of loss from future acts of terrorism.

Competition

Competition within the airline industry is intense and highly unpredictable, and Southwest and AirTran currently compete with other airlines on a majority of the Company's scheduled routes. Key competitive factors within the airline industry include (i) pricing and cost structure; (ii) routes, frequent flyer programs, and schedules; and (iii) customer service, comfort, and amenities. Southwest and AirTran also compete for customers with other forms of transportation, as well as alternatives to travel. In recent years, the majority of domestic airline service has been provided by Southwest and the other largest major U.S. airlines, including American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, United Airlines, and US Airways. In 2013, the parent company of American Airlines emerged from bankruptcy and merged with US Airways Group, Inc. The newly merged entity is the parent company of the following operating carriers: American Airlines, American Eagle Airlines (expected to be branded as Envoy beginning in early 2014), US Airways, US Airways Shuttle, and US Airways Express. The DOT defines the major U.S. airlines as those airlines with annual revenues of at least $1 billion; there are currently 14 passenger airlines offering scheduled service, including Southwest, meeting this standard.

Pricing and Cost Structure

Pricing is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the increased availability of fare information on the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. Pricing can be driven by a variety of factors. For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors and/or cash flow. In addition, multiple airlines have been able to reduce fares because they have been able to lower their operating costs as a result of reorganization within and outside of bankruptcy. Further, some of the Company’s competitors have continued to grow and modernize their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one mile), which in turn may enable them to lower their fares. These factors can reduce the pricing power of the Company and the airline industry as a whole.

The Company believes its low-cost operating structure continues to provide it with an advantage over many of its airline competitors by enabling Southwest and AirTran to continue to charge low fares. The Company also believes it has gained a competitive advantage by differentiating Southwest from all of its major competitors by not charging additional fees for items such as first and second checked bags, flight changes, seat selection, fuel surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations.

Routes, Frequent Flyer Programs, and Schedules

The Company also competes with other airlines based on markets served, frequent flyer opportunities, and flight schedules. Some major airlines have more extensive route structures than Southwest and AirTran, including more extensive international networks. In addition, many competitors have entered into significant commercial relationships with other airlines, such as global alliances, codesharing, and capacity purchase agreements, which increase the airlines’ opportunities to expand their route offerings. For example, an alliance or codesharing agreement enables an airline to offer flights that are operated by another airline and also allows the airline’s customers to book travel that includes segments on different airlines through a single reservation or ticket. As a result, depending on the nature of the specific alliance or codesharing arrangement, a participating airline may be able to (i) offer its customers access to more destinations than it would be able to serve on its own, (ii) gain exposure in markets it does not otherwise serve, or (iii) increase the perceived frequency of its flights on certain routes. Alliance and codesharing arrangements not only provide additional route flexibility for participating airlines, they can also allow these airlines to offer their customers










more opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles. A capacity purchase agreement enables an airline to expand its route structure by paying another airline (e.g.,a regional airline with smaller aircraft) to operate flights on its behalf in markets that it does not, or cannot, serve itself. The Company continues to evaluate and implement initiatives to better enable Southwest and AirTran to offer additional itineraries. In addition, the Company’s acquisition of AirTran enabled the Company to (i) expand its presence in key markets Southwest already served, (ii) grow the Company’s presence in key markets Southwest did not previously serve, (iii) extend service to smaller domestic cities Southwest did not previously serve, and (iv) provide access to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and key near-international markets in the Caribbean and Mexico.

Customer Service, Comfort, and Amenities

Southwest and AirTran also compete with other airlines in areas of Customer Service such as ontime performance, passenger amenities, flight equipment type, and comfort. According to statistics published by the DOT, Southwest consistently ranks at or near the top among domestic carriers in Customer Satisfaction for having the lowest Customer complaint ratio. Some airlines, including AirTran, have more seating options and associated passenger amenities than does Southwest, including first-class, business class, and other premium seating and related amenities. Additionally, some major U.S. airlines have announced plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets. Such efforts could provide cost benefits to these airlines through fleet simplification, improved fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. Additionally, such new aircraft could have newer and different passenger amenities than those contained in the Company’s existing fleet. The Company is addressing this competitive factor with its fleet modernization initiatives, which are discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Fleet Modernization” and “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Continued Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet.”

Other Forms of Competition

The airline industry is subject to varying degrees of competition from surface transportation by automobiles, buses, and trains. Inconveniences and delays associated with air travel security measures can increase surface competition. In addition, surface competition can be significant during economic downturns when consumers cut back on discretionary spending and fewer choose to fly. Because of the relatively high percentage of shorthaul travel provided by Southwest, it is particularly exposed to competition from surface transportation in these instances. The airline industry is also subject to competition from alternatives to travel such as videoconferencing and the Internet, which can increase in the event of travel inconveniences and economic downturns. The Company is subject to the risk that air travel inconveniences and economic downturns may, in some cases, result in permanent changes to consumer behavior in favor of surface transportation and electronic communications.

Seasonality

The Company’s business is somewhat seasonal. Generally, in most markets the Company serves, demand for air travel is greater during the summer months, and therefore, revenues in the airline industry tend to be stronger in the second (April 1 - June 30) and third (July 1 - September 30) quarters of the year than in the first (January 1 - March 31) and fourth (October 1 - December 31) quarters of the year. As a result, in many cases, the Company’s results of operations reflect this seasonality. Factors that could alter this seasonality include, among others, the price of fuel, general economic conditions, extreme or severe weather, fears of terrorism or war, or changes in the competitive environment. Therefore, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.

Employees

AtDecember 31, 2013, the Company had44,831active fulltime equivalent Employees, consisting of19,003flight,2,689maintenance,15,464ground, Customer, and fleet service, and7,675management, finance, marketing, and clerical personnel (associated with non-operational departments). Approximately83percent of these Employees were represented by labor unions. The Railway Labor Act establishes the right of airline employees to organize and bargain collectively. Under the Railway Labor Act, collective-bargaining agreements between an airline and a labor union generally do not expire, but instead become amendable as of an agreed date. By the amendable date, if either party wishes to modify the terms of the agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner required by the Railway










Labor Act and/or described in the agreement. After receipt of the notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations. If no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board to appoint a federal mediator. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the National Mediation Board may determine an impasse exists and offer binding arbitration to the parties. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day “cooling off” period begins. At the end of this 30-day period, the parties may engage in “self-help,” unless a Presidential Emergency Board is established to investigate and report on the dispute. The appointment of a Presidential Emergency Board maintains the “status quo” for an additional 60 days. If the parties do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in “self-help.”  “Self-help” includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the airline’s imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers. Following the AirTran acquisition, the various Company labor groups were covered by18different collective-bargaining agreements (“CBAs”). As noted in the table below, AirTran Employees in certain labor groups have transitioned to Southwest Employees under a single contract. The following table sets forth the Company’s Employee groups and the status of the respective CBAs:




















Employee GroupRepresentativesStatus of Agreement

Southwest PilotsSouthwest Airlines Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”)Currently in negotiations

Southwest Flight AttendantsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 556 (“TWU 556”)Currently in negotiations

Southwest Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, Freight AgentsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 555 (“TWU 555”)Currently in negotiations

Southwest Customer Service Agents, Customer RepresentativesInternational Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO (“IAM 142”)Currently in negotiations

Southwest Material Specialists (formerly known as Stock Clerks)International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 19 (“IBT 19”)Currently in negotiations

Southwest MechanicsAircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (“AMFA”)Currently in negotiations

Southwest Aircraft Appearance TechniciansAMFAAmendable February 2017

Southwest Facilities Maintenance TechniciansAMFACurrently in negotiations

Southwest DispatchersTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 550 (“TWU 550”)Amendable November 2014

Southwest Flight Simulator TechniciansInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (“IBT”)Currently in negotiations

Southwest Flight Crew Training InstructorsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 557 (“TWU 557”)Amendable December 2015

AirTran PilotsAir Line Pilots Association (“ALPA”)Amendable December 2015. Per seniority list integration agreement, transition to Southwest to be completed no later than January 2015.

AirTran Flight AttendantsAssociation of Flight Attendants-CWA (“AFA”)The parties have negotiated an interim collective bargaining agreement to be effective until affected AirTran Employees are transitioned to Southwest.

AirTran Mechanics and InspectorsInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 528 (“IBT 528”)Transitioned under the Southwest Mechanics Agreement (represented by AMFA) effective October 2012, as agreed upon as part of the applicable seniority integration and transition agreement.

AirTran Technical Trainers/Ground InstructorsIBT 528Transitioned under the Southwest Mechanics Agreement (represented by AMFA) effective October 2012, as agreed upon as part of the applicable seniority integration and transition agreement.

AirTran Stores/Stock ClerksIBT 528Transitioned under the Southwest Material Specialists Agreement (represented by IBT 19) effective January 2013, as agreed upon as part of the applicable seniority integration and transition agreement.

AirTran Ground Service Mechanics/EmployeesIBT 528Transitioned under the Southwest Mechanics Agreement (represented by AMFA) effective October 2012, as agreed upon as part of the applicable seniority integration and transition agreement.

AirTran DispatchersTransportation Workers Union of America, Local 540 (“TWU 540”)Amendable March 2014. The parties have agreed that effective March 2014, the AirTran Dispatchers will be transitioned to the Southwest Dispatchers Agreement (represented by TWU 550).

AirTran Fleet & Passenger Service Employees (customer service, ramp, reservations)IAM 142The parties have negotiated an interim collective bargaining agreement to be effective until affected AirTran Employees are transitioned to Southwest. As of December 31, 2013, (i) all AirTran ramp and freight agents had transitioned to the Southwest TWU 555 CBA; (ii) all AirTran customer service agents had transitioned to the Southwest IAM 142 CBA; and (iii) the majority of AirTran reservations agents had transitioned to the Southwest IAM 142 CBA.

Pending completion of operational integration of AirTran with the Company, it will be necessary to maintain a “fence” between Southwest and AirTran Employee groups subject to CBAs, during which time the Company and AirTran will continue to keep these Employee groups separate, each applying the terms of its own existing CBAs, unless other terms have been negotiated.

Seniority list integration methodologies have been resolved for all Southwest and AirTran workgroups.










Additional Information About the Company

The Company was incorporated in Texas in 1967. The following documents are available free of charge through the Company’s website, www.southwest.com: the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These materials are made available through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition to its reports filed or furnished with the SEC, the Company publicly discloses material information from time to time in its press releases, at annual meetings of Shareholders, in publicly accessible conferences and investor presentations, and through its website (principally in its Press Room and Investor Relations pages).














DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the Company’s forward-looking statements, which represent the Company’s views only as of the date this report is filed. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.



