Item 1.Business

Company Overview

Southwest Airlines Co. (the “Company”) operates Southwest Airlines, a major
passenger airline that provides scheduled air transportation in the United States. Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. Southwest
ended 2011 serving 72 cities in 37 states throughout the United States, which included the addition of service in 2011 to two new states and three new cities: Charleston, South Carolina; Greenville-Spartanburg, South Carolina; and Newark, New
Jersey. The Company has also announced its plan to expand Southwest service to its 38thstate and
73rdcity in February 2012, with the commencement of
service to Atlanta, Georgia. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation, as of June 30, 2011, Southwest was the largest domestic air carrier in the United States, as measured by the number of
originating passengers boarded.

Southwest principally provides point-to-point, rather than hub-and-spoke, service. This has
enabled it to maximize the use of key assets, including aircraft, gates, and Employees, and has also facilitated its ability to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. Point-to-point service is discussed in more
detail below under “Company Operations — Route Structure.”

On May 2, 2011, the Company acquired all of the
outstanding equity of AirTran Holdings, Inc. in exchange for common stock of the Company and cash. Each outstanding share of common stock of AirTran Holdings, Inc. was converted into the right to receive 0.321 shares of the Company’s common
stock and $3.75 in cash, without interest. In connection with the acquisition, the Company also acquired AirTran Airways, Inc., which operates the passenger airline AirTran Airways. In addition to providing scheduled air transportation in the
United States, AirTran provides service to selected international locations. The acquisition of AirTran allowed the Company to immediately and significantly expand and diversify its overall route network and thereby provide a near-term growth
opportunity not otherwise available to the Company. These and other benefits of the acquisition are discussed further below under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives – Integration of AirTran” and “Operating Strategies and
Initiatives — Network Optimization and Revenue Management.”

AirTran’s route system provides primarily
hub-and-spoke, rather than point-to-point, service, with approximately half of AirTran’s flights currently originating or terminating at its largest hub in Atlanta, Georgia. AirTran also serves a number of markets with non-stop service from
smaller bases of operation in Baltimore, Maryland; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and Orlando, Florida. Hub-and-spoke service is discussed in more detail below under “Company Operations — Route Structure.” AirTran ended 2011 serving 68 U.S.
and near-international destinations, including San Juan, Puerto Rico; Cancun, Mexico; Montego Bay, Jamaica; Nassau, The Bahamas; Oranjestad, Aruba; Punta Cana, Dominican Republic; and Bermuda. The Company has announced that, subject to required
government and other approvals, AirTran expects to add service to Mexico City, Mexico and Austin, Texas beginning in May 2012 and to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico and Orange County, California beginning in June 2012. As part of its network optimization
efforts, the Company has also decided to discontinue AirTran service to certain markets. As of January 31, 2012, AirTran served 65 destinations.

For the 39thconsecutive year, the Company was profitable, earning $178 million. The Company’s consolidated financial results include the results, from and after May 2, 2011, of AirTran Holdings, LLC (the successor to AirTran Holdings, Inc.) and its
subsidiaries, including, among others, AirTran Airways, Inc. At December 31, 2011, the total fleet operated by Southwest or AirTran consisted of 698 aircraft, including 610 Boeing 737s and 88 Boeing 717s.

Industry

The airline
industry is extremely volatile and is subject to various challenges. Among other things, it is cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive, with
generally low barriers to entry. The airline industry is also particularly




susceptible to detrimental events such as acts of terrorism, poor weather, and natural disasters. Over the last decade, total financial losses for the U.S. airline industry have exceeded $50
billion. These losses were driven by factors such as 9/11, the worst economic recession in aviation history, and a worldwide credit crisis. In addition, in recent years the industry has been particularly negatively affected by high and volatile fuel
prices. These factors have contributed to volatile and unpredictable demand for air travel and related cost and pricing challenges. Fuel costs alone have risen over 300 percent from 2000 levels. As a result, several U.S. airlines have ceased
operations or reorganized through bankruptcy.

The U.S. economy has experienced a moderate recovery since emerging from
recession in 2009; however, economic uncertainty continued to impact the airline industry in 2011, which resulted in continued industry restraint with respect to overall capacity (number of available seats). Although some air carriers, including
Southwest, experienced modest year-over-year increases in capacity during most of 201l, overall domestic airline industry capacity remained below pre-recession levels. The leaner flight schedules have led to improvements in industry load factors
(percentage of seats filled by fare-paying passengers) and yields (revenue production per passenger mile).

Company Operations

Route Structure

General

Southwest’s point-to-point service has also enabled it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers 25 weekday roundtrips
from Dallas Love Field to Houston Hobby, 13 weekday roundtrips from Phoenix to Las Vegas, 13 weekday roundtrips from Burbank to Oakland, and 12 weekday roundtrips from Los Angeles International to Oakland. Southwest complements these high-frequency
short-haul routes with long-haul non-stop service between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Las Vegas and Orlando, and San Diego and Baltimore. As of December 31, 2011, Southwest served 479 non-stop city pairs.

Unlike Southwest, AirTran currently operates largely through a hub-and-spoke network system, with approximately half of its flights
originating or terminating at its largest hub at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. AirTran also serves a number of markets with non-stop service from smaller bases of operation in Baltimore, Maryland; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and
Orlando, Florida.

International Service

Southwest does not currently provide international service; however, Southwest Customers are able to book international flights with
connecting service by Volaris, Mexico’s second largest airline. Southwest offers







connecting service opportunities from over 60 Southwest cities to different Volaris airports in Mexico including: Aguascalientes, Guadalajara, Mexico City (MEX), Mexico City-Toluca (TLC),
Morelia, and Zacatecas. Behind the scenes, the Company’s International Connect portal conducts two separate transactions – one with Southwest’s reservation system and one with Volaris’s reservation system. Tying the two systems
together provides Southwest Customers with an easy booking experience, one low fare, and thru-checking of luggage, and also blends the airlines’ flight schedules.

AirTran provides scheduled international service in San Juan, Puerto Rico; Cancun, Mexico; Montego Bay, Jamaica; Nassau, The Bahamas; Oranjestad, Aruba; Punta Cana, Dominican Republic; and Bermuda. The
Company has also announced that, subject to required government and other approvals, it plans to add AirTran service to Mexico City, Mexico in May 2012 and to Cabo San Lucas, Mexico in June 2012. The Company’s 2011 operating revenues
attributable to foreign operations (all of which were attributable to AirTran) were approximately $74 million. The remainder of the Company’s 2011 operating revenues, $15.6 billion, were attributable to domestic operations. The Company’s
tangible assets primarily consist of flight equipment, which is deployed systemwide, with no individual aircraft dedicated to any specific route or region; therefore the Company’s assets are not allocated to a geographic area.

Cost Structure

General







Impact of Fuel Costs on the Company’s Low-Cost Structure

In 2011, the Company experienced a significant increase in its Fuel and oil expense as a result of higher market prices. In addition, for
the seventh consecutive year Fuel and oil expense represented the Company’s largest or second largest cost. The table below shows the Company’s average cost of jet fuel and oil over the past seven years and during each quarter of 2011.



YearCost(Millions)AverageCost PerGallonPercent ofOperatingExpenses2005$1,470$1.1321.4%2006$2,284$1.6428.0%2007$2,690$1.8029.7%2008$3,713$2.4435.1%2009$3,044$2.1230.2%2010$3,620$2.5132.6%2011$5,644$3.1937.7%First Quarter 2011$1,038$2.9134.7%Second Quarter 2011$1,527$3.3038.9%Third Quarter 2011$1,586$3.2338.8%Fourth Quarter 2011$1,494$3.2537.7%

Fare Structure

Southwest

Southwest offers a relatively simple fare structure that features low, unrestricted, unlimited, everyday coach fares,
as well as even lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest bundles fares into three major categories: “Wanna Get Away,” “AnytimeSM,” and “Business Select®,” with the goal of making it easier for Customers to choose the fare they prefer.



•“Wanna Get Away” fares are generally the lowest fares and are subject to advance purchase requirements. They are nonrefundable, but funds may
be applied to future travel on Southwest.



•“Anytime” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may also be applied toward future travel on Southwest.



•“Business Select” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may be applied toward future travel on Southwest. Business Select fares also
include additional perks such as priority boarding, a







higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest fares, priority security and ticket counter access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage coupon for the day of
travel (for Customers of legal drinking age).

AirTran

AirTran also offers a user-friendly fare structure that features a variety of fares based on the length of the Customer’s advance
purchase. In addition, AirTran currently offers a Business Class product. With the exception of Business Class fares, all AirTran fares are nonrefundable, but can be changed prior to departure, subject to payment of a service charge. AirTran
Business Class fares are refundable and changeable and include additional perks such as priority boarding, oversized seats with additional leg room, bonus frequent flyer credit, no first or second bag fees, and complimentary cocktails onboard. In
addition, AirTran’s Business Class product can be purchased separately or through an upgrade of a non-Business Class fare within 24 hours of travel.

Websites

Southwest.com

The Company’s Internet website, southwest.com, is the only avenue for Southwest Customers to purchase tickets
online. During 2011, southwest.com accounted for approximately 78 percent of all Southwest bookings. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 84 percent of Southwest’s Passenger revenues came through its website
(including revenues from SWABIZ®, the Company’s business travel reservation web page). During 2010, the
Company added functionality to southwest.com for the purpose of, among other things, providing more product options, driving better booking rates, and improving ancillary revenues. The 2010 enhancements also included improved navigation capabilities
to make it easier for Customers to locate what they need. Any part of a trip can be planned directly from the southwest.com home page. In addition, southwest.com can recognize a Customer’s home airport and provide offers relevant to the
Customer. Southwest.com can also remember a Customer’s most recent searches to make it easier for the Customer to shop for flights, cars, and hotels, and includes a shopping cart functionality that allows a Customer to purchase air, hotel, and
car all at once. Customers can also book unaccompanied minor travel online. Southwest.com also highlights points of differentiation between Southwest and other air carriers, as well as the fact that southwest.com is the only place where Customers
can purchase Southwest fares online.

AirTran.com

The Internet is also an integral part of AirTran’s distribution network. Sales booked directly on airtran.com represent
AirTran’s largest and most cost-effective form of distribution. In addition to being user-friendly and simple, AirTran’s website is designed to sell tickets efficiently. AirTran has added functionality to airtran.com that allows Customers
to easily book and manage their travel, including the ability to retrieve and change future flight reservations, make seat selections, and checkin online. Sales through airtran.com produced approximately 53 percent of AirTran’s revenues during
2011 and approximately 57 percent of total bookings in 2011.

Operating Strategies and Initiatives

Major Strategic Initiatives

During 2011, the Company continued to address high jet fuel prices and economic uncertainty through its strategic initiatives. In particular, the Company focused on four major strategic initiatives:
(i) integration of AirTran, (ii) implementation of Southwest’s All-New Rapid Rewards®frequent
flyer program, (iii) incorporation of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft into the Southwest fleet and other fleet renewal and modernization strategies, and (iv) replacement of Southwest’s reservation system.







Integration of AirTran

During 2011, the Company began integrating AirTran into its operations. Although the Company anticipates full integration may take several
years, it accomplished the following key integration milestones during 2011:



•The Company moved the vast majority of AirTran’s headquarters functions from Orlando to Dallas.



•The Company began optimizing AirTran’s network and released the first coordinated Southwest and AirTran flight schedules.



•The Company took initial steps towards integrating the frequent flyer programs of Southwest and AirTran.



•The Southwest Airlines Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”), the union representing Southwest Pilots, the Air Line Pilots Association
(“ALPA”), the union representing the Pilots of AirTran, and the Company reached an agreement to integrate the two Pilot groups’ seniority lists. The agreement was approved by SWAPA’s Board of Directors and ALPA’s Master
Executive Council and was ratified by the membership of each union.



•The Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 556 (“TWU 556”), the union that represents Southwest Flight Attendants, the Association
of Flight Attendants (“AFA”), the union that represents AirTran Flight Attendants, and the Company reached an agreement to integrate the two Flight Attendant groups’ seniority lists. The agreement was approved by TWU 556’s
Executive Board and AFA’s Master Executive Council and, in January 2012, was ratified by the membership of each union.



•The Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (“AMFA”), the union representing Southwest Aircraft Mechanics, the International Brotherhood of
Teamsters, Local 528 (“IBT 528”), the union representing the AirTran Mechanics, and the Company reached a tentative agreement subject to a ratification vote by the unions’ respective memberships. The agreement would integrate the two
groups’ seniority lists and also create a single labor agreement.



•The Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO Local 557 (“TWU 557”), the union representing Southwest Flight Instructors, an Employee
Committee representing the Flight Instructors of AirTran, and the Company reached an agreement to integrate the two groups’ seniority lists. TWU 557’s Executive Committee and the Employee Committee representing the AirTran Flight
Instructors voted to pass the agreement forward to their respective members. The agreement was ratified by the respective memberships in January 2012.

During 2012, the Company expects to:



•receive approval from the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”) of a single operating certificate, which is significant from an
operational policies and procedures perspective and, subject to satisfactory resolution and integration of applicable union contracts, will allow the Company to operate aircraft and perform maintenance operations for both Southwest and AirTran
aircraft;



•begin conversion of AirTran’s fleet to the Southwest livery and continue to convert AirTran products, gates, and services to Southwest’s
look;



•launch travel booking tools to allow Customers of both Southwest and AirTran to book flights on either carrier using either southwest.com or
airtan.com;



•further integrate the Southwest and AirTran frequent flyer programs; and



•continue to further optimize and align the Southwest and AirTran networks, which is expected to be a multi-year undertaking.







The Company believes the acquisition of AirTran has positioned it to better respond to the
economic and competitive challenges of the industry because:



•it grows the Company’s presence in key markets Southwest did not previously serve and represents a significant step toward positioning the Company
for future growth;



•it allows the Company to offer more low-fare destinations by extending its network and diversifying into new markets, including significant
opportunities to and from Atlanta, the largest domestic market Southwest has not served;



•it expands the Company’s presence in slot-controlled markets where Southwest previously had little (New York LaGuardia) or no (Ronald Reagan
Washington National Airport) service;



•it expands the Company’s service in other key domestic markets, including Boston and Baltimore, and adds destinations to its route system;



•it increases the Company’s share of current domestic market share capacity (as measured by available seat miles or passengers); and



•it provides access to near-international leisure markets in the Caribbean and Mexico, as well as smaller cities, and provides firsthand and meaningful
insight into these new expansion opportunities.

Implementation of Southwest’s All-New Rapid
Rewards Frequent Flyer Program

In March 2011, the Company launched its All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer
program. Under the Company’s new frequent flyer program, members earn points for every dollar spent instead of credits for flight segments flown. The amount of points earned is based on the fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare
products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g.,Wanna Get Away). Each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare
for the flight by the fare class multiplier. Likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the fare and fare class purchased. However,unlike the Company’s previous program, under the new program
(i) members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire so long as the Rapid Rewards Member has points-earning activity during a 24-month time
period.

Rapid Rewards points earned for each fare type are as follows:



•Business Select: 12 points per dollar spent



•Anytime: 10 points per dollar spent



•Wanna Get Away: 6 points per dollar spent

Rapid Rewards points required for redemption for each fare type are as follows:



•Business Select: 120 points times the fare



•Anytime: 100 points times the fare



•Wanna Get Away: 60 points times the fare

Under the new program, flight awards are not automatically issued when a member’s account reaches a certain threshold. Instead, members can decide when to redeem points for travel on any Southwest
flight. As a result, the new program provides its members more flexibility and options for earning and redeeming their rewards. For example, members can earn more points (and/or achieve tiered status such as A-List and Companion Pass faster) by
purchasing higher fare tickets. Members also have more flexibility in redeeming







points, such as the opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower fare (including a fare sale) ticket by redeeming fewer points or by being able to redeem more points and book at
the last minute if seats are still available for sale. Rapid Rewards Members can also earn points through qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners (which include, for example, car rental agencies, hotels, restaurants, and retail locations),
as well as by using Southwest’s co-branded Chase®Visa credit card. In addition, holders of
Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card are able to redeem their points for items other than travel on Southwest, such as international flights on other airlines, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. In
addition to earning points for revenue flights and qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners, Rapid Rewards Members also have the ability to purchase points.

The All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program also features enhanced A-List and Companion Pass programs for the
most active members and adds a new level of status, “A-List Preferred.” Both A-List and A-List Preferred Members enjoy benefits such as “Fly By®” priority checkin and security lane access, where available, as well as dedicated phone lines, standby priority, and an earnings bonus on eligible revenue
flights (25% for A-List and 100% for A-List Preferred). In addition, A-List Preferred Members enjoy free inflight WiFi on equipped flights. Rapid Rewards Members who attain A-List or A-List Preferred status receive priority boarding privileges
for an entire year. When these Customers purchase travel at least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best boarding pass number available (generally, an “A” boarding pass). “A-List” or “A-List
Preferred” Customers are automatically checked in for their flight in advance of departure. Rapid Rewards Members who fly 100 qualifying one-way flights or earn 110,000 qualifying points in a calendar year automatically receive a Companion
Pass, which provides for unlimited free roundtrip travel for one year to any destination available on Southwest for a designated companion of the qualifying Rapid Rewards Member. The Rapid Rewards Member and designated companion must travel together
on the same flight, and the Rapid Rewards Member must purchase a ticket for the flight or use a travel award.

The All-New
Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program has been designed to drive more revenue by (i) bringing in new Customers, including new Rapid Rewards Members, as well as new holders of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card;
(ii) increasing business from existing Customers; and (iii) strengthening the Company’s Rapid Rewards hotel, rental car, credit card, and retail partnerships. To date, the new program has exceeded the Company’s expectations with
respect to the number of frequent flyer members added, the number of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card holders added, the number of flights taken by members, incremental revenues associated with members booking flights, and the
number of frequent flyer points purchased by program members.

During 2011, the Company began the process of integrating the
frequent flyer programs of Southwest and AirTran by offering top-tier status members of both airlines’ frequent flyer programs some limited reciprocal benefits. For example, AirTran A+ Rewards members who book on Southwest are eligible for
“A-List” benefits on Southwest flights. In addition, Southwest “A-List” and “A-List Preferred” Rapid Rewards Members booking on AirTran are eligible for free Business Class upgrades, no baggage fees, and all other
benefits that AirTran’s A+ Rewards members enjoy.

AirTran’s A+ Rewards frequent flyer program offers a number of
ways to earn free travel including bonus earnings for Business Class travel. AirTran Customers may earn either free travel or Business Class upgrades or, under certain circumstances, free travel on other airlines. A+ Rewards members can earn a
credit for each one-way trip flown or 1.5 credits for one-way Business Class travel. A+ Rewards credits may be redeemed as follows:



•One-way Business Class upgrade: 4 credits



•One-way Coach ticket: 8 credits



•One-way Business Class ticket: 16 credits

A+ Rewards credits can also be earned for purchases made with an AirTran Airways A+ Visa card, when renting from Hertz, for purchases from other A+ Rewards partners, and in conjunction with marketing







promotions that AirTran may run from time to time. A+ Rewards members may purchase A+ Rewards credits, extend the expiration of A+ credits, or give A+ credits to another member to help earn a
free flight faster. A+ Rewards credits earned by holders of AirTran’s Visa card and elite A+ Rewards members have a two-year expiration date, as opposed to a one-year expiration date for general members.

For the Company’s 2011 consolidated results, which include AirTran results from May 2, 2011 through December 31, 2011,
Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately 3.7 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 8.3 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. Southwest Customers redeemed approximately 3.2 million and 3.0 million
flight awards during 2010 and 2009, respectively, accounting for approximately 7.9 percent and 7.7 percent of Southwest revenue passenger miles flown in those years. Although under Southwest’s new frequent flyer program travel awards are no
longer automatically generated, awards and credits earned under Southwest’s previous frequent flyer program may still be redeemed until their original expiration date. As of December 31, 2011, there were approximately 1.3 million
previously issued flight awards still outstanding under the previous program and approximately 2.6 million partially earned awards outstanding. However, the Company believes a significant portion of these flight awards and partially earned
awards will expire without being used, as they are not transferable to the Company’s new frequent flyer program. Award travel available to members of AirTran’s A+ program as of December 31, 2011, was not significant to the
Company. The amount of points redeemed by Southwest’s members and the number of credits redeemed by AirTran’s members during 2011 for items other than air travel was not material.

For frequent flyer points earned by members through flight activity, the Company currently accounts for its program obligations utilizing
the incremental cost method. Under this method, the Company estimates the incremental cost of points that are expected to be redeemed for a future flight award. The estimated incremental cost of this liability includes direct passenger costs such as
fuel, food, and other operational costs, but does not include any contribution to overhead or profit. The majority of the revenue from the sale of points to business partners participating in the Company’s frequent flyer program is initially
deferred and is subsequently recognized as Passenger revenue at the time of redemption. A portion of the revenue received is deemed unrelated to future travel and is recognized as Other revenue in the period earned. The Company’s accounting
policies with respect to its frequent flyer programs are discussed in more detail in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of an increase in activity associated with Southwest’s All New Rapid Rewards program in 2011 and
the acquisition of AirTran, the Company’s consolidated liability associated with frequent flyer programs, including amounts transacted with business partners, was $545 million at December 31, 2011, versus $246 million at December 31,
2010.

Introduction of the Boeing 737-800 and Other Fleet Renewal and Modernization Strategies

The Boeing 737-800. The Company expects to introduce the Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest fleet in the first quarter of
2012. The 737-800’s all coach seating configuration of 175 will offer significantly more Customer seating capacity than Southwest’s existing fleet. In addition to the added seating capacity, the planned configuration includes The Boeing
Company’s Sky Interior, which features a quieter cabin, improved operational security features, and LED reading and ceiling lighting. The Company expects the 737-800 will enable it to (i) more economically serve longhaul routes, including
extended routes over water; (ii) improve scheduling flexibility and more economically serve high-demand, slot-controlled, and gate-restricted airports, such as New York LaGuardia, Newark, and Washington Reagan, by adding seats to such markets
without increasing the number of flights; and (iii) boost fuel efficiency to reduce overall unit costs. Additionally, the Company expects the 737-800 will enable Southwest to profitably expand to new destinations and potentially fly to more
distant markets such as Hawaii, Alaska, Canada, Mexico, and the Caribbean. The Company currently expects to take delivery of 33 Boeing 737-800 aircraft during 2012. The Company’s fleet is discussed in more detail below under “Properties
– Aircraft.”

The Boeing 737 MAX.In December 2011, the Company announced that it will be the launch
customer for the new Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The Company has placed a firm order for 150 of the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft and expects to take delivery of the first Boeing 737 MAX aircraft in 2017. The Boeing 737 MAX is







designed to be more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly, and the Company believes the 737 MAX will (i) have the lowest operating costs in the single-aisle segment and
(ii) benefit the Company with an engine/airframe combination that is uniquely designed to optimize operating performance of the Company’s fleet. In addition, the 737 MAX will enable the Company to replace certain Boeing 737 and/or Boeing
717 aircraft. The Company has determined the Boeing 717 aircraft does not fit within its long-term overall fleet plans. In addition, replacement of the Boeing 717 aircraft would enable the Company to return to operating with a single aircraft type,
with the associated operational benefits discussed above under “Company Operations – Cost Structure.”

The
Boeing Next-Generation 737.In December 2011, the Company also announced that it expanded its current orders for the Boeing Next-Generation 737 aircraft from 142 to 200, which increased the Company’s overall total firm orders with
Boeing to 350 for 2012 through 2024. The orders are intended to predominately serve as replacement aircraft in the Company’s fleet. The Company also has options to purchase an additional 92 Boeing 737 Next-Generation aircraft and an additional
150 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The Company expects its long-term, fuel efficient fleet modernization plan to provide substantial flexibility to manage its fleet needs in a variety of economic conditions. The Company’s future aircraft delivery
schedule is set forth in more detail under “Properties – Aircraft.”

Southwest Cabin Refresh.In
January 2012, the Company announced its introduction of a new cabin interior design that uses durable and environmentally responsible products to reduce waste and create weight savings onboard the aircraft, while at the same time increasing the
number of seats and enhancing Customer comfort. The Company plans to begin retrofitting the Southwest current fleet of Boeing 737-700s in March 2012 and anticipates the retrofit will be completed in 2013. The Company plans to retrofit the AirTran
current fleet of Boeing 737-700s as such aircraft are converted to Southwest livery beginning in 2012.

Reservation
System

The Company intends to replace Southwest’s existing reservation system with a system that would provide
the ability to serve international destinations and that would allow for other revenue management and Customer Service enhancements. The Company anticipates the reservation system replacement will be a multi-year project, with other key technology
projects, such as those related to AirTran integration, All-New Rapid Rewards, and the introduction of the Boeing 737-800, taking priority.

Other Strategic Initiatives

In addition to the Company’s four major
strategic initiatives discussed above, the Company has continued to design, implement, and manage other strategic initiatives to increase revenues, improve cost controls, and continue to attract and retain Customers.

Network Optimization and Revenue Management

During 2011, the Company continued to use profitability management tools to aggressively manage capacity and route expansion through optimization of its flight schedule to better match demand in certain
markets. These efforts contributed to improved revenues and load factors during 2011. The Company also set the stage for long-term growth by beginning the process of aligning the Southwest and AirTran networks. For example, during 2011, the Company
determined that high jet fuel prices have made the economics of many AirTran routes unprofitable. In response, the Company decided to remove AirTran flights from certain markets and reallocate them to other markets. The Company expects the
connection and optimization of the Southwest and AirTran schedules and network to be a multi-year undertaking, but believes these efforts will yield significant synergies and financial benefits. The Company intends to continue to expand the depth,
reach, and profitability of its overall network.







Aggressive Promotion of the Company’s Low-Fare Brand and Points of
Differentiation from its Competitors

During 2011, the Company continued to benefit from, and
aggressively market, Southwest’s points of differentiation from its competitors. For example, Southwest continues to be the only major U.S. airline that does not impose additional fees for first or second checked bags. Through its “Bags
Fly Free®” marketing campaign, Southwest has continued to aggressively promote this point of
differentiation from its competitors. The Company believes its decision not to charge for first and second checked bags on Southwest, as reinforced by the Company’s related marketing campaign, has driven an increase in Southwest’s market
share and a resulting increase in revenues.

Southwest is also the only major U.S. airline that does not impose a fee for a
Customer’s change in flight plans. In January 2011, the Company introduced a marketing campaign to promote this point of differentiation between Southwest and its competitors. The campaign highlights the importance to Southwest of Customer
Service by showing that Southwest understands plans can change and therefore does not charge a change fee. While a Customer may pay a difference in airfare, the Customer will not be charged a change fee on top of any difference in airfare.

Also unlike most of its competitors, Southwest does not impose additional fees for items such as seat selection, fuel
surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations. In addition, Southwest allows each ticketed Customer to check one stroller and one car seat free of charge, in addition to the two free checked bags.

Business Traveler Amenities

Southwest offers several products that have been designed to attract additional business/full fare travelers.

Business Select.As discussed above, Southwest’s “Business Select” product includes perks such as priority boarding, a higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest
fares, priority ticket counter and security checkpoint access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage coupon for the day of travel (for Customers of legal drinking age).

“Fly By” Priority Lanes.Southwest provides Fly By Priority Lane access for its Business Select Customers
and Rapid Rewards A-List Members at many of its airports. Fly By Priority Lanes are priority access lanes located at select ticket counters and security checkpoints. The lanes allow Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members direct
access to the front of the line at the ticket counter and/or security checkpoint. As of December 31, 2011, Fly By Priority Lane Access was available at 56 airports.

SWABIZ.SWABIZ is Southwest’s business travel reservation web page. SWABIZ allows business travelers to plan,
book, and purchase Ticketless Travel on Southwest and to efficiently obtain their lowest fares and maximum frequent flyer credit.

In addition, as discussed below under “Inflight Internet Connectivity,” Southwest has continued to install equipment on its fleet to provide WiFi connectivity.

AirTran currently offers Business Class on every flight; however the Company has stated that it intends, upon full integration of AirTran,
to have a consistent all-coach product offering.

Ancillary Services and Fees

During 2011, the Company continued to experience revenue benefits from service offerings such as Southwest’s EarlyBird Check-in™
and Pets Are Welcome on Southwest (PAWS) products. EarlyBird Check-in allows Customers to obtain an early boarding position directly behind Business Select and A-List Customers by adding an additional $10 to the price of a one-way fare (priority
boarding privileges are already included in the







purchase of a Business Select fare and are a benefit of being an A-List frequent flyer – see “Implementation of Southwest’s All-New Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program”
above). Southwest’s PAWS offering allows Customers to bring small cats and dogs into the aircraft cabin for a $75 one-way fare. Southwest also charges an additional $50 per one-way trip for unaccompanied minor travel to address the
administrative costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. The Company also expects to benefit from new ancillary revenue opportunities created by its All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program.

AirTran currently charges fees for checked baggage, carriage of pets, liquor sales, advance seat assignments, call center services,
priority seat selection, special services such as the transportation of unaccompanied minors, and extension or transfer of A+ Miles Rewards (in addition to fees for the purchase of A+ Miles Rewards). The Company has stated that it intends, upon full
integration of AirTran, to have a consistent product offering without first or second bag fees or change fees.

Inflight
Internet Connectivity

Southwest currently offers inflight satellite (broadband) WiFi service on over 165 of its
aircraft and continues to work on installing this service on the remainder of its 737-700 aircraft. The Company’s arrangement with its WiFi provider enables the Company to control the pricing of the service, which is currently $5.00 per flight
for any device or flight length.

AirTran currently offers Gogo Inflight Internet connectivity on every flight. Gogo
establishes the charges for such Inflight Internet connectivity.

Proactive Customer Communications

The Company’s Automated Outbound Messaging (“AOM”) service enables it to (i) proactively deliver customized automated
voice, text, and e-mail messages to Southwest Customers when there has been a significant change (or potential disruption) to their flight, such as a cancellation, gate change, or flight delay; and (ii) give Southwest Customers the option to
connect to a Customer Representative or rebook online in the case of cancelled flights. Southwest Customers who book their travel on southwest.com have the option to receive these notifications via telephone (landline or mobile), SMS texting, or
email. In addition to providing flight information to Southwest Customers using their preferred contact method, if applicable, the Company directs Southwest Customers to rebook their flights online via southwest.com/rebook. The AOM strategy is
designed to increase proactive Customer outreach and accommodations, reduce inbound calls, improve contact center management, save costs, and provide a better overall experience.

Cost Containment

Over the last several years, the Company has undertaken a number of cost-containment projects to preserve Southwest’s low-cost advantage and low-fare brand. These have included the network
optimization and fleet modernization strategies discussed above. In addition, these have included fuel conservation mechanisms such as the following:



•installation of blended winglets, which reduce draft and increase fuel efficiency and which have been installed on 487 Southwest aircraft;



•engine washes, which conserve fuel;



•use of electric ground power for aircraft air and power at the gate;



•deployment of auto-throttle and vertical navigation to maintain optimum cruising speeds, which contributes to fuel savings and reduced carbon
emissions; and



•reduced aircraft engine idle speed while on the ground, which increases engine life and reduces fuel burn and carbon emissions.







Wireless Ramp Communication

In December 2011, the Company announced that Southwest will be the first U.S. airline to equip ramp Employees systemwide with hands-free
wireless headsets to enable the ground crew and pilots to verbally coordinate the process of pushing back planes from concourse gates. The new devices are expected to add another level of safety to potentially dangerous situations. The headset
system could also potentially help to improve departure times and fuel efficiency. The Company expects the headset system to be deployed at all Southwest gates nationwide during the first quarter of 2012.

Management Information Systems

The Company has continued its commitment to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. During 2010, the Company completed the integration of a new SAP Enterprise Resource
Planning application, which replaced the Company’s general ledger, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, benefits, cash management, and fixed asset systems. The conversion was designed to improve the Company’s key business
processes by implementing an integrated tool to increase efficiency, consistency, data accuracy, and cost effectiveness. In addition, the Company has invested in significant technology necessary to support its All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer
program, enhanced southwest.com website, and WiFi implementation. The Company intends to continue to devote significant technology resources to accommodate the introduction of the 737-800 into the Southwest fleet and to implement a new
reservation system that will allow the Company to add international destinations and improve revenue management and Customer Service functionality.

Regulation

The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the
federal government. Examples of regulations affecting the Company and/or the industry are discussed below.

Economic and
Operational Regulation

The U.S. Department of Transportation

The U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) regulates aviation safety, as well as economic, consumer protection, and civil
rights matters. The DOT may impose civil penalties on air carriers for violating its regulations.







To provide passenger transportation in the United States, a domestic airline is required to
hold a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity issued by the DOT. A certificate is unlimited in duration, and the Company’s certificate generally permits it to operate among any points within the United States and its territories and
possessions. Additional DOT authority, in the form of a certificate or exemption from certificate requirements, is required for a U.S. airline to serve foreign destinations either with its own aircraft or via codesharing with another airline. The
DOT also has jurisdiction over international tariffs and pricing in certain markets. The DOT may revoke a certificate or exemption, in whole or in part, for intentional failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders, or the
terms of the certificate itself.

The DOT’s consumer protection and enforcement activities relate to areas such as unfair
and deceptive practices and unfair competition by air carriers, deceptive airline advertising (e.g.,fare, on-time performance, schedule, and codesharing), and violations of rules concerning denied boarding compensation, ticket refunds, and
baggage liability requirements. The DOT is also charged with prohibiting discrimination by airlines and focuses on ensuring that individuals with disabilities obtain nondiscriminatory access to the air transportation system and that the public is
not subjected to unlawful discrimination by airlines on the basis of race, religion, national origin, or sex during the course of their air transportation.

Airlines are also subject to a DOT consumer protection rule (the “Passenger Protection Rule”), which addresses, among other matters, tarmac delays and chronically delayed flights (i.e.,flights that operate at least 10 times a month and arrive more than 30 minutes late more than 50 percent of the time during that month). Under the Passenger Protection Rule, U.S. passenger airlines are required to adopt contingency plans that
include the following: (i) the assurance that no domestic flight will remain on the airport tarmac for more than three hours unless the pilot-in-command determines there is a safety-related or security-related impediment to deplaning passengers
or air traffic control advises the pilot-in-command that returning to the gate or permitting passengers to disembark elsewhere would significantly disrupt airport operations; (ii) the assurance that air carriers will provide adequate food and
potable drinking water no later than two hours after the aircraft leaves the gate (in the case of departure) or touches down (in the case of arrival) if the aircraft remains on the tarmac, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or
security considerations preclude such service; and (iii) the assurance of operable lavatories, as well as adequate medical attention, if needed. Air carriers are required to publish their contingency plans on their websites.

The Passenger Protection Rule also subjects airlines to potential DOT enforcement action for unfair and deceptive practices in the event
of chronically delayed flights. Airlines are required to (i) display ontime performance on their websites; (ii) adopt customer service plans, publish those plans on their website, and audit their own compliance with their plans;
(iii) designate an employee to monitor the performance of their flights; and (iv) provide information to passengers on how to file complaints and respond in a timely and substantive fashion to consumer complaints. Airlines that violate the
Passenger Protection Rule are subject to potential fines of up to $27,500 per passenger, the maximum allowed for violating any aviation consumer rule. The DOT has expressed its intent to aggressively investigate alleged violations of the Passenger
Protection Rule.

In August 2011, the DOT implemented new rules expanding the Passenger Protection Rule by, among other things,
(i) increasing the maximum denied boarding compensation airlines must pay to passengers bumped from flights from $800 to $1,300; (ii) requiring airlines to refund any checked bag fee for permanently lost luggage; (iii) requiring
airlines to prominently disclose all potential fees for optional services on their websites; and (iv) requiring airlines to refund passenger fees paid for ancillary services if a flight cancels or oversells and a passenger is unable to take
advantage of such services.

Effective January 2012, the DOT further expanded the Passenger Protection Rule by implementing a
new airfare advertising rule (the “full-fare advertising rule”) that require all advertised airfares to include government-mandated taxes and fees, including fuel charges and security fees. Other new and expanded components of the
Passenger Protection Rule require, among other things, that: (i) passengers be allowed to hold a reservation for up to 24 hours without making a payment; (ii) passengers be allowed to cancel a paid reservation without penalty for 24 hours
after the reservation is made, as long as the reservation is made at least seven days in advance of







travel; (iii) fares may not increase after purchase; (iv) baggage fees must be disclosed to the passenger at the time of booking; (v) the same baggage allowances and fees must
apply throughout a passenger’s trip; (vi) baggage fees must be disclosed on e-ticket confirmations; and (vii) passengers must be promptly notified in the event of delays of more than 30 minutes or if there is a cancellation or
diversion of their flight.

In July 2011, the DOT proposed new rules that would require airlines to report more information to
the DOT on the amount and types of fees collected from passengers, as well as the number of checked bags and mishandled wheelchairs. The proposal would revise current reporting requirements to increase data collection on the amount airlines receive
from different, specific types of fees. The proposed rule would require airlines to report 18 categories of fee revenue. The DOT has not taken final action in this proceeding.

Aviation Taxes

The statutory authority for the federal government
to collect most types of aviation taxes, which are used, in part, to finance the nation’s airport and air traffic control systems, and the authority of the FAA to expend those funds must be periodically reauthorized by the U.S. Congress. Since
September 30, 2007, this authority has been extended by Congress through a series of short-term extensions, with the most recent extension set to expire on February 17, 2012. On February 6, 2012, Congress passed the FAA Modernization and Reform Act
of 2012, which the President is expected to sign into law prior to February 17, 2012. This legislation will extend most commercial aviation taxes through September 30, 2015. In addition to FAA-related taxes, there are additional federal taxes
related to the Department of Homeland Security. These taxes do not need to be reauthorized periodically. In an effort to reduce the federal deficit, Congress may consider creating a new tax on commercial aviation or increasing an existing tax during
the upcoming year. The White House has proposed increasing the security fee assessed on passengers as well as creating a new aircraft departure tax of $100 per flight to help pay for deficit reduction.

The Wright Amendment

Section 29 of the International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979, as amended (commonly known as the “Wright Amendment”), prohibited the carriage of non-stop and through passengers
on commercial flights between Dallas Love Field and all states outside of Texas, with the exception of the following states (the “Wright Amendment States”): Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, and
Oklahoma. Originally, the Wright Amendment permitted an airline to offer flights between Dallas Love Field and the Wright Amendment States only to the extent the airline did not offer or provide any through service or ticketing with another air
carrier at Dallas Love Field and did not market service to or from Dallas Love Field and any point outside of a Wright Amendment State. In other words, a Customer could not purchase a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any destination other
than a Wright Amendment State. These restrictions did not apply to flights operated with aircraft having 56 or fewer passenger seats. The Wright Amendment also did not restrict Southwest’s intrastate Texas flights or its air service to or from
points other than Dallas Love Field.

In 2006, the Company entered into an agreement with the City of Dallas, the City of
Fort Worth, American Airlines, Inc., and the DFW International Airport Board, pursuant to which the five parties sought enactment of legislation to amend the Wright Amendment. Congress responded by passing the Wright Amendment Reform Act of
2006, which immediately repealed the original through service and ticketing restrictions by allowing the purchase of a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any U.S. destination (while still requiring the Customer to make a stop in a
Wright Amendment State), and reduced the maximum number of gates available for commercial air service at Dallas Love Field from 32 to 20. The Company currently has access to 16 gates at Dallas Love Field. Pursuant to the Wright Amendment Reform Act
and local agreements with the City of Dallas with respect to gates, the Company can expand scheduled service from Dallas Love Field. The Wright Amendment Reform Act also provides for substantial repeal of the remainder of the Wright Amendment in
2014. At such time Southwest will be able to fly to any U.S. destination from Dallas Love Field unless such destination is restricted or otherwise limited by law. Nonstop international service from Dallas Love Field will continue to be prohibited.







Operational, Safety, and Health Regulation

Southwest, AirTran, and their third-party maintenance providers are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to their aircraft
maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, flight training personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. The FAA, acting through its own powers or through the appropriate U.S. Attorney,
has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition and collection of fines for violation of the Federal Aviation Regulations.

To address compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain, and Southwest and AirTran have obtained, operating,
airworthiness, and other certificates. These certificates are subject to suspension or revocation for cause. In addition, pursuant to FAA regulations, Southwest and AirTran have established, and the FAA has approved or accepted, as applicable,
Southwest’s and AirTran’s operations specifications and maintenance programs for their respective aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major overhauls. The Company has been working to obtain approval from the FAA of a
single operating certificate that would allow the Company to operate aircraft and perform maintenance operations for both Southwest and AirTran aircraft.

In December 2011, the DOT and the FAA issued a rule to amend the FAA’s existing flight, duty, and rest regulations. Among other things, the new rule, which will go into effect in 2014, requires a ten
hour minimum rest period prior to a pilot’s flight duty period, a two-hour increase over the old rules. The new rule also mandates that a pilot must have an opportunity for eight hours of uninterrupted sleep within the ten hour rest period.
Pilots will also be limited to no more than nine hours of “flight time,” which is considered by the FAA to be any time an airplane is moving on its own power, even if it is on the ground at an airport. Pilots will also be limited to 28
working days in a month and will be required to be given at least 30 consecutive hours free from duty on a weekly basis, a 25 percent increase over the current rules.

The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to occupational safety and health, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Food and Drug
Administration regulations.

Security Regulation







The
Company has made significant investments to address the effect of security regulations, including investments in facilities, equipment, and technology to process Customers and cargo efficiently and restore the airport experience; however, the
Company is not able to predict the ongoing impact, if any, that various security measures will have on Passenger revenues and the Company’s costs, either in the short-term or the long-term.

Environmental Regulation

The federal government, as well as several state and local governments, are considering legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change by reducing green house gas emissions. At the federal
level, the Environmental Protection Agency’s Endangerment Finding in January 2010 regarding greenhouse gas emissions set the stage for possible legislative or regulatory action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from various segments of the
economy, including from aviation. The airline industry could be affected directly through new unfunded mandates or indirectly through higher fuel costs as fuel providers pass on any additional costs to fuel consumers. Regardless of the method of
regulation, policy changes with regards to climate change are possible, which could significantly increase operating costs in the airline industry and, as a result, adversely affect operations.







The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 gives airport operators the right, under certain
circumstances, to implement local noise abatement programs, so long as they do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Some airports have established airport restrictions to limit
noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of operations. These types of restrictions can cause curtailments in service or increases in operating costs and could
limit the ability of the Company to expand its operations at the affected airports.

As part of its
commitment to corporate sustainability, the Company has published the Southwest One ReportTMdescribing the Company’s sustainability strategies, which include efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address other environmental matters such as energy and water conservation, waste
minimization, and recycling. As discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives - Cost Containment,” the Company has also committed significant resources towards implementation of RNP procedures, which are designed to conserve
fuel and reduce carbon emissions. In addition, the Company’s “Green Team” targets areas of environmental improvement in all aspects of the Company’s business, while at the same time remaining true to the Company’s low-cost
philosophy.

International Regulation

All international service is subject to the regulatory requirements of the appropriate authorities of the foreign countries involved. To the extent the Company seeks to provide additional international
air transportation in the future, it will be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT, as well as any applicable foreign government or other authority.

Insurance

The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline
industry and in amounts deemed adequate to protect the Company and its property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain of the Company’s credit and lease agreements. The policies principally provide coverage for public and
passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or damage to aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers’ compensation.

Through the 2003 Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the “Wartime Act”), the federal government has provided renewable, supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage to
commercial carriers at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates and for levels of coverage not available in the commercial market. The government-provided supplemental coverage from the Wartime Act is currently set to expire on
September 30, 2012. Although another extension beyond this date is expected, if such coverage is not extended by the government, the Company could incur substantially higher insurance costs or unavailability of adequate coverage in future
periods.

Competition

Competition within the airline industry is intense and highly unpredictable, and Southwest and AirTran currently compete with other airlines on a majority of their routes. In addition, the airline
industry generally has low barriers to entry. Key competitive factors within the airline industry include (i) pricing and cost structure; (ii) routes, schedules, and frequent flyer programs; and (iii) customer service, comfort, and
amenities. Southwest and AirTran also compete for customers with other forms of transportation, as well as alternatives to travel.

Pricing and Cost Structure

Pricing in the airline industry can be driven
by a variety of factors. For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors and/or cash flow. In addition, some airlines have been able to lower their operating
costs (and thereby have been able to reduce fares) as a result of reorganization within and outside of bankruptcy. Over the past ten years, several airlines have reorganized through bankruptcy. These factors can reduce the pricing power of the
airline industry







as a whole. In addition, the increased availability of fare information on the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. The Company
believes its low-cost operating structure provides it with an advantage over its airline competitors by enabling Southwest and AirTran to continue to charge competitive fares. In addition, unlike all of its major competitors, Southwest does not
charge additional fees for items such as first and second checked bags, flight changes, seat selection, fuel surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations.

Routes, Schedules, and Frequent Flyer Programs

e.g.,

Customer Service, Comfort, and Amenities

Southwest and AirTran also compete with other airlines in areas of Customer Service such as ontime performance, passenger amenities, equipment type, and comfort. According to statistics published by the
DOT, Southwest consistently ranks at or near the top for Customer Satisfaction for having the lowest Customer complaint ratio. Some airlines, including AirTran, have more seating options and associated passenger amenities than does Southwest,
including first-class, business class, and other premium seating and the amenities associated therewith. Additionally, some major U.S. airlines have announced plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets. Such efforts could
provide cost benefits to these airlines through fleet simplification, better fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. Additionally, such new aircraft could have newer and different passenger amenities than those contained in the
Company’s existing fleet. The Company is addressing this competitive factor with its fleet modernization plans, which are discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives – Introduction of the Boeing 737-800 and Other Fleet
Renewal and Modernization Strategies.”

Other Forms of Competition

The airline industry is subject to varying degrees of competition from surface transportation by automobiles, buses, and trains.
Inconveniences and delays associated with air travel security measures can increase surface competition. In addition, surface competition can be significant during economic downturns when consumers cut back on discretionary spending. Because of the
relatively high percentage of shorthaul travel provided by Southwest, it is particularly exposed to competition from such surface transportation in these instances. The airline industry is also subject to competition from alternatives to travel such
as videoconferencing and the Internet, which can increase in the event of travel inconveniences and economic downturns. The







Company is subject to the risk that air travel inconveniences and economic downturns may, in some cases, result in permanent changes to consumer behavior in favor of surface transportation and
electronic communications.

Seasonality

The Company’s business is somewhat seasonal. Generally, in most markets the Company serves, demand for air travel is greater during the summer months, and therefore, revenues in the airline
industry tend to be stronger in the second (April 1 – June 30) and third (July 1 – September 30) quarters of the year than in the first (January 1 – March 31) and fourth (October 1 – December 31) quarters of
the year. As a result, in many cases, the Company’s results of operations reflect this seasonality. Factors that could alter this seasonality include, among others, the price of fuel, general economic conditions, extreme or severe
weather, fears of terrorism or war, or changes in the competitive environment. Therefore, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year and historical operating results in
a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.

Employees



Employee GroupRepresentativesStatus of AgreementSouthwest PilotsSouthwest Airlines Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”)Amendable August 2012Southwest Flight AttendantsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 556 (“TWU 556”)Amendable May 2013Southwest Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, Freight AgentsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 555 (“TWU 555”)Currently in negotiationsSouthwest Customer Service Agents, Customer RepresentativesInternational Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO (“IAM 142”)Amendable October 2012Southwest Materials Specialists (formerly known as Stock Clerks)International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 19 (“IBT 19”)Amendable August 2013







Employee GroupRepresentativesStatus of AgreementSouthwest MechanicsAircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (“AMFA”)Amendable August 2012Southwest Aircraft Appearance TechniciansAMFACurrently in negotiationsSouthwest DispatchersTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 550 (“TWU 550”)Currently in negotiationsSouthwest Flight Simulator TechniciansInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (“IBT”)Amendable October 2013Southwest Flight Crew Training InstructorsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 557 (“TWU 557”)Amendable December 2015AirTran PilotsAir Line Pilots Association (“ALPA”)Amendable December 2015AirTran Flight AttendantsAssociation of Flight Attendants (“AFA”)Amendable May 2013AirTran MechanicsInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 528 (“IBT 528”)Amendable October 2013AirTran Ground InstructorsIBT 528Amendable March 2014AirTran Stock ClerksIBT 528Amendable June 2013AirTran Ground Service EmployeesIBT 528Amendable September 2013AirTran DispatchersTransportation Workers Union of America, Local 540 (“TWU 540”)Amendable March 2014AirTran Fleet & Passenger Service Employees (customer service, ramp, reservations)IAM 142The parties have negotiated an interim collective bargaining agreement to be effective until affected AirTran Employees are transitioned to Southwest.

A key aspect of the Company’s integration of AirTran is integration of Employees. In the case of an
airline merger, the process for integrating Employees subject to CBAs is governed by a combination of the Railway Labor Act, the McCaskill-Bond Act, and where applicable, the existing provisions of each company’s CBAs and union policies. Under
the McCaskill-Bond Act, seniority integration (i.e.,in the Company’s case, an agreement regarding how AirTran Employees are merged into the respective seniority lists of the Southwest Employees covered by CBAs) must be accomplished in a
“fair and equitable” manner consistent with the process set forth in Sections 3 and 13 of the Allegheny-Mohawk Labor Protective Provisions. This process consists first of direct negotiations between the incumbent unions with the assistance
of the companies. If integration cannot be achieved through agreement, seniority integration is submitted to binding arbitration by a neutral arbitrator. For employee groups having the same representative at both carriers, the McCaskill-Bond Act
provides that seniority integration must be accomplished pursuant to the union’s internal policies if such policies exist, which may, depending upon the internal policies, require arbitration. Employee dissatisfaction with the results of the
seniority integration can lead to litigation or arbitration, which in some cases can delay seniority integration.

Under the
Railway Labor Act, the National Mediation Board has exclusive authority to resolve representation disputes arising out of airline mergers. The disputes that the National Mediation Board has authority to resolve include (i) whether the merger
has created a “single transportation system” for representation







purposes, which is the step in the integration process that allows the various Southwest collective bargaining units to represent AirTran Employees; (ii) determination of the appropriate
“craft or class” for representational purposes, including a determination of which positions are to be included within a particular craft or class; and (iii) certification of the system-wide representative organization, if any, for
each craft or class at the Company following the merger.

Pending operational integration of AirTran with the Company, it will
be necessary to maintain a “fence” between Southwest and AirTran Employee groups subject to CBAs, during which time the Company and AirTran will keep these Employee groups separate, each applying the terms of its own existing CBAs, unless
other terms have been negotiated. In the meantime, the Company has been negotiating transition agreements, which modify existing CBAs to address circumstances unique to the transition process.

In September 2011, the Southwest Airlines Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”), the union representing Southwest Pilots, the Air
Line Pilots Association (“ALPA”), the union representing the pilots of AirTran, and the Company reached an agreement to integrate the two Pilot groups’ seniority lists. The agreement was approved by SWAPA’s Board of Directors and
ALPA’s Master Executive Council and was ratified by the membership of each union in November 2011.

In December 2011, the
Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 556 (“TWU 556”), the union that represents Southwest Flight Attendants, the Association of Flight Attendants (“AFA”), the union that represents AirTran Flight Attendants, and the
Company reached an agreement to integrate the two Flight Attendant groups’ seniority lists. The agreement was approved by TWU 556’s Executive Board and AFA’s Master Executive Council and, in January 2012, was ratified by the
membership of each union.

In December 2011, the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (“AMFA”), the union
representing Southwest Aircraft Mechanics, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 528 (“IBT 528”), the union representing the AirTran Mechanics, and the Company reached a tentative agreement subject to a ratification vote by the
unions’ respective memberships. The agreement would integrate the two groups’ seniority lists and also create a single labor agreement. The membership of each union is currently considering the tentative agreement.

In December 2011, the Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO Local 557 (“TWU 557”), the union representing Southwest Flight
Instructors, an Employee Committee representing the Flight Instructors of AirTran, and the Company reached an agreement to integrate the two groups’ seniority lists. TWU 557’s Executive Committee and the Employee Committee representing the
AirTran Flight Instructors voted to pass the agreement forward to their respective members. The agreement was ratified by the respective memberships in January 2012.

Additional Information About the Company

The Company was incorporated in
Texas in 1967. The following documents are available free of charge through the Company’s website, www.southwest.com: the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
any amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These materials are made available through
the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.







DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the Company’s forward-looking
statements, which represent the Company’s views only as of the date this report is filed. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or
otherwise.



