Item 1. Business

Company Overview

Southwest Airlines Co. (the “Company”) operates Southwest Airlines (“Southwest”) and AirTran Airways (“AirTran”), major passenger airlines that provide scheduled air
transportation in the United States and near-international markets. For the 40thconsecutive year, the Company was profitable, earning $421 million in net income.

Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and
San Antonio. Including the operations of both Southwest and AirTran, the Company ended 2012 serving 97 destinations in 41 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and six near-international countries including Mexico
(Cancun, Mexico City, and Cabo San Lucas), Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), Aruba (Oranjestad), Dominican Republic (Punta Cana), and Bermuda. At December 31, 2012, the total fleet operated by Southwest and AirTran combined consisted
of 694 aircraft, including 606 Boeing 737s and 88 Boeing 717s.

In 2012 Southwest added service to two new states (Georgia and
Iowa) and six new airports: Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport; Akron-Canton Regional Airport; Dayton International Airport; Des Moines International Airport; Key West International Airport; and Ronald Reagan Washington National
Airport. During 2012, AirTran added new destinations, Mexico City and Cabo San Lucas, and new international service from Denver, Colorado; Chicago, Illinois; Austin, Texas; San Antonio, Texas; and Orange County, California.

The Company has also announced its plans to expand Southwest service to two new states (Maine and Kansas) and seven new U.S. cities in
2013, including Branson, Missouri; Charlotte, North Carolina; Flint, Michigan; Rochester, New York; Portland, Maine; Wichita, Kansas; and Grand Rapids, Michigan. In addition, Southwest has announced plans to commence service in April 2013 to
San Juan, Puerto Rico, Southwest’s first service outside of the continental United States. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation, as of September 30, 2012, Southwest was the largest
domestic air carrier in the United States, as measured by the number of domestic originating passengers boarded.

Southwest
principally provides point-to-point, rather than hub-and-spoke, service. This has enabled it to maximize the use of key assets, including aircraft, gates, and Employees, and has also facilitated its ability to provide its markets with frequent,
conveniently timed flights and low fares. Point-to-point service is discussed in more detail below under “Company Operations — Route Structure.” AirTran principally provides hub-and-spoke, rather than point-to-point, service, with
approximately half of AirTran’s flights currently originating or terminating at its largest base of operation in Atlanta, Georgia. AirTran also serves a number of markets with non-stop service from smaller bases of operation in Baltimore,
Maryland; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and Orlando, Florida. Hub-and-spoke service is discussed in more detail below under “Company Operations — Route Structure.”

Industry

The airline industry is extremely volatile and is subject to
various challenges. Among other things, it is cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. The airline industry is also particularly susceptible to
detrimental events such as acts of terrorism, poor weather, and natural disasters. From 2001 through 2011 total financial losses for the U.S. airline industry exceeded $50 billion. These losses were driven by factors such as 9/11, the worst economic
recession in aviation history, and a worldwide credit crisis. In addition, in recent years the industry has been particularly negatively affected by an uncertain economy and high and volatile fuel prices. These factors have




contributed to volatile and unpredictable demand for air travel and related cost and pricing challenges. Passenger demand in the airline industry’s shorthaul markets, in particular, has been
negatively affected by higher fares associated with high fuel prices. Fuel costs alone have risen over 400 percent from 2002 levels. As a result, several U.S. airlines have ceased operations or reorganized through bankruptcy.

Although the U.S. economy has experienced a moderate recovery since emerging from recession in 2009, and the U.S. airline industry showed
moderate improvement during 2012, economic uncertainty continued to impact the airline industry in 2012, which resulted in continued industry restraint with respect to overall capacity (number of available seats). Although some U.S. air carriers
experienced year-over-year increases in capacity during 2012, most large major U.S. air carriers experienced relatively flat or slightly reduced capacity in 2012 compared to 2011. In addition, overall domestic airline industry capacity in 2012 was
relatively flat compared to 2011 and remained below pre-recession levels. The leaner flight schedules over the past several years, along with continued industry consolidation, have led to improvements in industry load factors (percentage of seats
filled by fare-paying passengers) and yields (revenue production per passenger mile).

Company Operations

Route Structure

General

Southwest principally provides point-to-point service,
rather than the “hub-and-spoke” service provided by most major U.S. airlines. The hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline’s operations at a limited number of central hub cities and serves most other destinations in
the system by providing one-stop or connecting service through a hub. Any issue at a hub, such as bad weather or a security problem, can create delays throughout the system. By not concentrating operations through one or more central transfer
points, Southwest’s point-to-point route structure has allowed for more direct non-stop routing than hub-and-spoke service. For 2012, approximately 72 percent of Southwest’s Customers flew non-stop, and Southwest’s average aircraft
trip stage length was 678 miles with an average duration of approximately 1.9 hours. For 2011, approximately 71 percent of Southwest’s Customers flew non-stop, and Southwest’s average aircraft trip stage length was 664 miles with an
average duration of approximately 1.8 hours.

Southwest’s point-to-point service has also enabled it to provide its
markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers 25 weekday roundtrips from Dallas Love Field to Houston Hobby, 13 weekday roundtrips from Phoenix to Las Vegas, 14 weekday roundtrips from
Burbank to Oakland, and 12 weekday roundtrips from Los Angeles International to Oakland. Southwest complements these high-frequency shorthaul routes with longhaul non-stop service between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Las Vegas and
Orlando, San Diego and Baltimore, and Houston and Newark. As of December 31, 2012, Southwest served 497 non-stop city pairs.

Unlike Southwest, AirTran currently operates largely through a hub-and-spoke network system, with approximately half of its flights originating or terminating at its largest base of operation at
Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport. AirTran also serves a number of markets with non-stop service from smaller bases of operation in Baltimore, Maryland; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; and Orlando, Florida.

International Service

Southwest does not currently provide international service; however, the Company will begin converting AirTran flying into Southwest service in April 2013 to San Juan, Puerto Rico, Southwest’s first
service outside of the continental United States. In connection with launching this service, Southwest has obtained the necessary Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) approvals to conduct operations, under certain circumstances, outside
of the continental United States.







In addition to service to San Juan, Puerto Rico, AirTran also provides service to eight
destinations in six near-international countries including Mexico (Cancun, Mexico City, and Cabo San Lucas), Jamaica (Montego Bay), The Bahamas (Nassau), Aruba (Oranjestad), Dominican Republic (Punta Cana), and Bermuda.

During second quarter 2012, the City of Houston, Texas, approved an expansion plan to allow the Company to design and construct five
additional gates and a U.S. customs facility at Houston’s William P. Hobby Airport, which would allow Southwest to provide international service from that airport. The facility is expected to be complete and available for operation
sometime in 2015. Although a formal agreement has not yet been completed by the City of Houston and the Company, the Company has agreed to fund the design and construction of this project, which is currently estimated, by the City of Houston,
to cost $156 million.

The Company’s 2012 operating revenues attributable to foreign operations (all of which were
attributable to AirTran) were approximately $159 million. The remainder of the Company’s 2012 operating revenues, approximately $16.9 billion, were attributable to domestic operations. The Company’s 2011 operating revenues attributable to
foreign operations (all of which were attributable to AirTran) were approximately $74 million. The remainder of the Company’s 2011 operating revenues, approximately $15.6 billion, were attributable to domestic operations. The Company’s
tangible assets primarily consist of flight equipment, the majority of which are interchangeable and are deployed systemwide, with no individual aircraft dedicated to any specific route or region; therefore the Company’s assets are not
allocated to a geographic area. For a discussion of the risks related to the Company’s foreign operations, see “Risk Factors — The Company’s operations may be adversely affected by its expansion into non-U.S. jurisdictions and
the related increase in laws to which it is subject.”

Cost Structure

General

A key component of the Company’s business strategy has historically been its low-cost structure, which was designed to allow Southwest to profitably charge low fares. Adjusted for stage length,
Southwest and AirTran have lower unit costs, on average, than virtually all major domestic carriers. The Company’s low-cost structure has historically been facilitated by Southwest’s use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737,
an operationally efficient point-to-point route structure, and highly productive Employees. Southwest’s use of a single aircraft type has allowed for simplified scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, and training activities.
Southwest’s point-to-point route structure includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland,
San Jose, Providence, and Ft. Lauderdale/Hollywood. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines’ hub airports, which has enabled Southwest to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can
be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they are on the ground. This in turn has reduced the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be required and allows for high Employee productivity (headcount per aircraft).

The Company believes that its fleet modernization initiatives, as well as the addition of the larger Boeing 737-800 to the Southwest
fleet, will have a favorable impact on the Company’s unit costs. These strategic initiatives are discussed in more detail below under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives – Fleet Modernization” and “Operating
Strategies and Initiatives – Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet.”







Impact of Fuel Costs on the Company’s Low-Cost Structure

In 2012, the Company again experienced significant Fuel and oil expense as fuel prices remained volatile and at historically high levels.
In addition, for the eighth consecutive year Fuel and oil expense represented the Company’s largest or second largest cost and was the Company’s largest cost for the second consecutive year. The table below shows the Company’s average
cost of jet fuel and oil over the past ten years and during each quarter of 2012.



YearCost(Millions)*AverageCost PerGallon*Percent ofOperatingExpenses*2003$920$0.8016.5%2004$1,106$0.9218.1%2005$1,470$1.1321.4%2006$2,284$1.6428.0%2007$2,690$1.8029.7%2008$3,713$2.4435.1%2009$3,044$2.1230.2%2010$3,620$2.5132.6%2011$5,644$3.1937.7%2012$6,120$3.3037.2%First Quarter 2012$1,510$3.3938.0%Second Quarter 2012$1,577$3.2537.9%Third Quarter 2012$1,528$3.1935.9%Fourth Quarter 2012$1,505$3.3836.9%



*The Company has previously reclassified fuel sales and excise taxes for the years 2003 through 2007 from “Other operating expenses” to “Fuel and oil
expense” in order to conform to the presentation for 2008 through 2012. Average fuel cost per gallon figures, as well as the percent of operating expenses, have also been recalculated based on the reclassified information.

The Company enters into fuel derivative contracts to manage its risk associated with significant increases in
fuel prices; however, because energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time, the Company must also continually monitor and adjust its fuel hedge portfolio and strategies to address not only fuel price increases, but
also fuel price volatility and hedge collateral requirements. Although jet fuel prices were slightly less volatile in 2012 than in some previous years, they remain at historically high levels and continue to be subject to extreme volatility based on
a variety of factors. In addition, the cost of hedging has increased with current sustained high jet fuel prices and the potential for volatility in the fuel market. The Company’s fuel hedging activities are discussed in more detail below under
“Risk Factors,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fare Structure

Southwest

Southwest offers a relatively simple
fare structure that features competitive, unrestricted, unlimited, everyday coach fares, as well as lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest bundles fares into three major categories: “Wanna Get Away,” “AnytimeSM,” and “Business Select®,” with the goal of making it easier for Customers to choose the fare they prefer.



•“Wanna Get Away” fares are generally the lowest fares and are subject to advance purchase requirements. They are nonrefundable, but funds may
be applied to future travel on Southwest. As discussed below under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives – Ancillary Services and Fees,” during







2013, Southwest intends to implement a service charge for reuse of funds associated with Wanna Get Away tickets that are not canceled or changed prior to departure.



•“Anytime” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may also be applied toward future travel on Southwest.



•“Business Select” fares are refundable and changeable, and funds may be applied toward future travel on Southwest. Business Select fares also
include additional perks such as priority boarding, a higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest fares, priority security and ticket counter access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage coupon for the day of
travel (for Customers of legal drinking age).

AirTran

AirTran also offers a user-friendly fare structure that features a variety of competitive fares and products. Unlike Southwest, AirTran
currently offers a Business Class product. With the exception of Business Class fares, all AirTran fares are nonrefundable, but can be changed prior to departure, subject to payment of a service charge. AirTran Business Class fares are refundable
and changeable and include additional perks such as priority boarding, oversized seats with additional leg room, bonus frequent flyer credit, no first or second bag fees, and complimentary cocktails onboard. In addition, AirTran’s Business
Class product can be purchased separately or through an upgrade of a non-Business Class fare within 24 hours of travel.

Websites

Southwest.com

The Company’s Internet website, southwest.com®, is the only
avenue for Southwest Customers to purchase and manage travel online. Any part of a Customer’s trip can be planned directly from the southwest.com home page. Southwest.com can recognize nearby airports for a Customer and provide offers relevant
to the Customer. Southwest.com can remember a Customer’s most recent searches to make it easier for the Customer to shop for flights, cars, and hotels, and includes a shopping cart functionality that allows a Customer to purchase air, hotel,
and car all at once. Customers can book unaccompanied minor travel online. Southwest.com highlights points of differentiation between Southwest and other air carriers, as well as the fact that southwest.com is the only place where Customers can
purchase Southwest fares online. During 2012, the Company enhanced southwest.com and swabiz.com (the Company’s business travel reservation web page) for its Spanish speaking Customers by translating both websites into Spanish. This enhancement
provides an easier booking tool to Customers who prefer to transact in Spanish. During 2012, southwest.com accounted for approximately 85 percent of all Southwest bookings. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2012, approximately 84
percent of Southwest’s Passenger revenues came through its website (including revenues from SWABIZ®).

AirTran.com

The Internet is also an integral part of AirTran’s distribution network. Sales booked directly on airtran.com represent AirTran’s largest and most cost-effective form of distribution. In
addition to being user-friendly and simple, AirTran’s website is designed to sell tickets efficiently. AirTran.com allows Customers to easily book and manage their travel, including the ability to retrieve and change future flight reservations,
make seat selections, and check in online. Sales through airtran.com produced approximately 54 percent of AirTran’s revenues during 2012 and approximately 58 percent of AirTran’s total bookings in 2012.

Operating Strategies and Initiatives

During 2012, the Company continued to address economic uncertainty and high jet fuel prices through its strategic initiatives. The Company focused on five major strategic initiatives: (i) integration
of AirTran, (ii) Southwest’s All-New Rapid Rewards®frequent flyer program, (iii) fleet
modernization, (iv) incorporation of the larger Boeing 737-800 aircraft into the Southwest fleet, and (v) new reservation system and international







capabilities. In addition to the Company’s five major strategic initiatives, the Company has continued to design, implement, and manage other strategic initiatives to increase revenues,
improve cost controls, and attract and retain Customers. All of these initiatives are designed to contribute to the Company’s achievement of its pre-tax return on invested capital target of 15 percent.

Major Strategic Initiatives

Integration of AirTran

During 2012, the Company continued the
process of integrating AirTran into its operations and accomplished the following key integration milestones:



•The Company received a single operating certificate from the FAA, which allowed the Company to begin the operational integration of Southwest and
AirTran.



•The Company finished moving all of AirTran’s headquarters functions to Dallas, integrated the Finance and Human Resources systems, and transferred
over 2,100 AirTran Employees to Southwest, including all remaining headquarters Employees and most Maintenance & Engineering Employees.



•The Company continued to further optimize AirTran’s route network by, among other things, closing 14 airports that proved unsustainable and
redeploying AirTran aircraft in other markets. During 2012, AirTran added Mexico City and Cabo San Lucas to its route network and added new international service from Denver, Colorado; Chicago, Illinois; Austin, Texas; San Antonio, Texas; and Orange
County, California.



•The Company began converting AirTran 737-700 aircraft to the Southwest livery. As of December 31, 2012, 11 out of a total of 52 AirTran 737-700
aircraft had completed the conversion process and re-entered service as Southwest aircraft. The Company expects to transition an additional eight AirTran 737-700 aircraft into conversion during 2013. The Company expects to convert the majority of
the remaining AirTran 737-700 aircraft in 2014.



•The Company further coordinated Southwest and AirTran flight schedules, launched booking tools to allow Customers of both airlines to book flights on
either carrier via southwest.com or airtran.com, and made significant progress towards implementing connecting capabilities between the Southwest and AirTran reservations systems to allow Customers of Southwest and AirTran to book connecting
itineraries between the two carriers. Full deployment of connecting capabilities is expected to occur in early 2013.



•The Company took further steps towards integrating the frequent flyer programs of Southwest and AirTran by enabling Customers to transfer their loyalty
rewards between the Southwest and AirTran frequent flyer programs.



•The Company significantly grew the Southwest network by converting AirTran service to Southwest service in several new markets, including full
conversions of Washington Dulles in second quarter 2012, Seattle, Washington and Des Moines, Iowa in third quarter 2012, and Key West, Florida in fourth quarter 2012. In January 2013, the Company fully converted its AirTran operations in Phoenix,
Arizona to Southwest.



•The Company completed all of its AirTran airport facility transitions, where the two airlines both operate, by moving certain facilities in shared
locations from one carrier to the other wherever possible.



•The Company continued its progress towards integrating Southwest’s and AirTran’s unionized workforce. Southwest’s Aircraft Mechanics,
represented by the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal







Association (“AMFA”), and the Aircraft Mechanics and Inspectors at AirTran, represented by the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 528 (“IBT 528”), voted to ratify
their Seniority Integration Agreement, which integrates the two groups’ seniority lists. Further, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO (“IAM 142”), which represents the Customer Service Agents and
Customer Representatives at both Southwest and AirTran, reached a decision regarding the methodology for integrating the seniority lists of the two workgroups. The decision by IAM 142 was not subject to a vote by the respective workgroups. In
addition, a settlement agreement was reached for integrating the seniority lists of Material Specialists at Southwest and AirTran. As a result of these agreements, all Southwest and AirTran union workgroup seniority integration methodologies have
now been resolved. The Company’s Pilots, Flight Attendants, Flight Instructors, Dispatchers, and Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, and Freight Agents have also successfully completed the seniority integration negotiation process.

During 2013, the Company expects to:



•continue to produce significant Southwest network growth through the multi-year conversion of AirTran’s 737-700 fleet, products, gates, and
services to Southwest’s look;



•continue to transfer AirTran Employees to Southwest, including the complete transfer of all remaining departments, with the exception of Flight Crews,
whose transition is aligned with aircraft conversion;



•deploy connecting capabilities between the Southwest and AirTran networks to allow Customers of both Southwest and AirTran to book connecting
itineraries between the two carriers; and



•continue to further optimize and align the Southwest and AirTran networks, which is expected to be a multi-year undertaking.

The Company believes the acquisition of AirTran has positioned it to better respond to the economic and
competitive challenges of the industry because:



•it grows the Company’s presence in key markets, many of which Southwest did not previously serve, and represents a significant step toward
positioning the Company for future growth;



•it allows the Company to offer 25 more destinations by extending its network and diversifying into new markets, including significant opportunities to
and from Atlanta, the largest domestic market Southwest previously did not serve;



•it expands the Company’s presence in slot-controlled markets where Southwest previously had little (New York LaGuardia) or no (Ronald Reagan
Washington National Airport) service;



•it expands the Company’s service in other key domestic markets, including Baltimore, Milwaukee, and Orlando and adds destinations to its route
system;



•it increases the Company’s share of current domestic market share (as measured by available seat miles or passengers); and



•it provides access to near-international leisure markets in the Caribbean and Mexico, as well as smaller cities, and provides firsthand and meaningful
insight into these new expansion opportunities.

Southwest’s All-New Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer
Program

In March 2011, Southwest launched its All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program. Under the current
program, members earn points for every dollar spent, whereas, under the prior program members earned credits for flight segments flown. The amount of points earned under the current program is based on the fare and fare







class purchased, with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g.,Wanna Get Away). Each fare class is associated with a
points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. Likewise, the amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the fare and fare class
purchased. However,unlike Southwest’s previous program, under the current program (i) members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points
do not expire so long as the Rapid Rewards Member has points-earning activity during a 24-month time period.

Under the current program, flight awards are not automatically issued when a member’s account reaches a certain threshold. Instead, members continue to accumulate points until the time they decide to
redeem them. As a result, the new program provides members more flexibility and options for earning and redeeming rewards than did the prior program. For example, members can earn more points (and/or achieve tiered status such as A-List and
Companion Pass faster) by purchasing higher fare tickets. Members also have more flexibility in redeeming points, such as the opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower fare (including many fare sales) ticket by redeeming fewer
points or by being able to redeem more points and book at the last minute if seats are still available for sale. Rapid Rewards Members can also earn points through qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners (which include, for example, car
rental agencies, hotels, restaurants, and retail locations), as well as by using Southwest’s co-branded
Chase®Visa credit card. In addition, holders of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card are
able to redeem their points for items other than travel on Southwest, such as international flights on other airlines, cruises, hotel stays, rental cars, gift cards, event tickets, and more. In addition to earning points for revenue flights and
qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners, Rapid Rewards Members also have the ability to purchase points.

The All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program also features enhanced A-List and Companion Pass programs for the most active members and includes “A-List Preferred” status. Both A-List
and A-List Preferred Members enjoy benefits such as “Fly By®” priority checkin and security lane
access, where available, as well as dedicated phone lines, standby priority, and an earnings bonus on eligible revenue flights (25% for A-List and 100% for A-List Preferred). In addition, A-List Preferred Members enjoy free inflight WiFi on equipped
flights. Rapid Rewards Members who attain A-List or A-List Preferred status receive priority boarding privileges for an entire year. When these Customers purchase travel at least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best
boarding pass number available (generally, an “A” boarding pass). “A-List” or “A-List Preferred” Customers are automatically checked in for their flight in advance of departure. Rapid Rewards Members who fly 100
qualifying one-way flights or earn 110,000 qualifying points in a calendar year automatically receive a Companion Pass, which provides for unlimited free roundtrip travel for one year to any destination available on Southwest for a designated
companion of the qualifying Rapid Rewards Member. The Rapid Rewards Member and designated companion must travel together on the same flight.

The All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program has been designed to drive more revenue by (i) bringing in new Customers, including new Rapid Rewards Members, as well as new holders of
Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card; (ii) increasing business from existing Customers; and (iii) strengthening the Company’s Rapid Rewards hotel, rental car, credit card, and retail partnerships. To date, the new
program has exceeded the Company’s expectations with respect to the number of frequent flyer members added, the number of Southwest’s co-branded Chase Visa credit card holders added, the number of flights taken by members, incremental
revenues associated with members booking flights, partner revenue, and the number of frequent flyer points purchased by program members.

The Company began the process of integrating the frequent flyer programs of Southwest and AirTran in 2011 by offering top-tier status members of both airlines’ frequent flyer programs some limited
reciprocal benefits. For example, AirTran A+ Rewards®members who book on Southwest are eligible for reciprocal
“A-List” benefits on Southwest flights. In addition, Southwest “A-List” and “A-List Preferred” Rapid Rewards Members booking on AirTran are eligible for reciprocal A+ Elite status, including free Business Class
upgrades, no baggage fees, and all other benefits that AirTran’s A+ Rewards members enjoy. During 2012, the Company took further steps towards integrating the frequent flyer programs of Southwest and AirTran by enabling







Customers to transfer their loyalty rewards between the Southwest and AirTran frequent flyer programs. As a result, members have the benefit of the entire combined network for redemption. Under
the rewards conversion, AirTran A+ Rewards credits may be converted to Southwest Rapid Rewards credits at a 1:1 ratio, and vice versa. Rapid Rewards points may be converted to AirTran credits at a 1,200:1 ratio. AirTran A+ Rewards credits may not be
converted to Rapid Rewards points.

AirTran’s A+ Rewards frequent flyer program offers a number of ways to earn free
travel, including bonus earnings for Business Class travel. AirTran Customers may earn either free travel or Business Class upgrades or, under certain circumstances, free travel on other airlines. A+ Rewards members can earn a credit for each
one-way trip flown or 1.5 credits for one-way Business Class travel.

A+ Rewards credits can also be earned for purchases made
with an AirTran Airways A+ Visa card or an AirTran A+ Rewards Chase Visa credit card, qualifying car rentals from Hertz, for purchases from other A+ Rewards partners, and in conjunction with marketing promotions that AirTran may run from time to
time. A+ Rewards members may purchase A+ Rewards credits, extend the expiration of A+ credits, or give A+ credits to another member to help earn a free flight faster. A+ Rewards credits earned by AirTran’s elite A+ Rewards members have a
two-year expiration date, as opposed to a one-year expiration date for general members.

For the Company’s 2012
consolidated results, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately 4.5 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 9.0 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For the Company’s 2011 consolidated results, which
include AirTran results from May 2, 2011 through December 31, 2011, Customers of Southwest and AirTran redeemed approximately 3.7 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 8.6 percent of revenue passenger miles flown.
Southwest Customers redeemed approximately 3.2 million flight awards during 2010, accounting for approximately 7.9 percent of Southwest revenue passenger miles flown. The Company’s accounting policies with respect to its frequent flyer
programs are discussed in more detail in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fleet Modernization

As discussed below, the Company has multiple efforts underway to replace its older aircraft with newer aircraft that
are less maintenance intensive and more fuel efficient and that also have a greater range. The Company expects its longterm, fuel efficient fleet modernization plan to provide substantial flexibility to manage its fleet needs in a variety of
economic conditions. The Company’s future aircraft delivery schedule is set forth in more detail under “Properties – Aircraft.”

The Boeing 737 MAX.The Company has entered into an agreement to be the launch customer for the new Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The Company has placed a firm order for 150 of the Boeing 737 MAX
aircraft and expects to begin to take delivery in 2017. The Company also has options to purchase an additional 150 Boeing 737 MAX aircraft. The Boeing 737 MAX is designed to be more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly, and the Company
believes the 737 MAX will (i) have the lowest operating costs in the single-aisle segment and (ii) benefit the Company with an engine/airframe combination that is uniquely designed to optimize operating performance of the Company’s
fleet. In addition, the 737 MAX will enable the Company to replace certain Boeing aircraft currently in the Company’s fleet.

The Boeing Next-Generation 737.The Company also entered into an agreement in December 2011 to expand its orders for the Boeing Next-Generation 737 aircraft. During 2012, the Company
purchased 29 Boeing Next-Generation 737-800 aircraft and, including the 737 MAX firm orders described above, has overall total firm orders with Boeing of 321 aircraft for 2013 through 2024. During 2012, the Company also leased five Boeing
Next-Generation 737-800 aircraft from a third party. The orders and leases are intended to predominately serve as replacement aircraft in the Company’s fleet as it retires older 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft, and the 717 fleet. The Company also
has options to purchase an additional 92 Boeing 737 Next-Generation aircraft.

Southwest Cabin Refresh.In
January 2012, the Company announced its plans to retrofit its 737-700 fleet with an updated cabin interior.Evolve: The New Southwest Experienceis intended to enhance Customer comfort,







personal space, and the overall travel experience, while improving fleet efficiency and being environmentally responsible. The cabin refresh features recyclable carpet, a brighter
color-scheme, and more durable, eco-friendly, and comfortable seats that weigh less than the prior seats. By maximizing the space inside the plane,Evolveallows for the added benefit of six additional seats on each retrofitted aircraft,
along with more climate-friendly and cost-effective materials. These retrofits for Southwest 737-700 aircraft began in first quarter 2012 and are expected to be completed in 2013. As of January 22, 2013, 270 of the Company’s
737-700 aircraft had been converted to theEvolveinterior, including 11 transitioned AirTran aircraft. The remaining AirTran aircraft that are transitioned to the Southwest fleet are also expected to receive the newEvolveinterior at the time of transition. In addition to the 737-700 retrofits, the 737-800 aircraft entering the Company’s fleet also feature theEvolveinterior, and the Company currently expects to retrofit 78 of its 737-300s withEvolvein 2013.

Transition of Boeing 717 Aircraft. The Company has entered into an agreement with Delta
Air Lines, Inc. and Boeing Capital Corp. to lease or sublease all 88 of AirTran’s Boeing 717-200 aircraft to Delta. Deliveries to Delta are expected to begin in August 2013 at the rate of approximately three aircraft per month. From a
fleet management perspective, this transition allows the Company to minimize the impact of this transaction on operations, as the Boeing 717 capacity lost is expected to be replaced through the capacity gained as a result of (i) the
Company’s extension of the retirement dates for a portion of its 737-300 and 737-500 aircraft and (ii) deliveries from Boeing of new 737 aircraft or deliveries of used 737 aircraft from other sources. Transitioning the Boeing 717 fleet to
Delta avoids the added complexity to the Company’s operations, as the Company has historically operated an all-Boeing 737 fleet. Replacement of the Boeing 717 aircraft capacity with Boeing 737 capacity provides revenue opportunities with
more seats per aircraft, while costing approximately the same amount to fly on a per-trip basis as the larger Boeing 737 aircraft.

Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet

New Reservation System and International Capabilities

The Company intends to replace Southwest’s existing reservation system with a comprehensive system that would provide the ability for
Southwest to serve international destinations and that would allow for other Customer Service, revenue management, and schedule production capabilities. During second quarter 2012, the Company entered into a contract with Amadeus IT Group to
implement Amadeus’ Altea reservations solution to support the Company’s international service. The new international reservation system construction is well underway, and the Company expects to make significant additional construction
progress in 2013. The Company expects the new international reservation system to be substantially complete in 2014, when Southwest expects to launch international service.







Once the Altea implementation is complete, the Company intends to begin a multi-year project
to replace Southwest’s existing domestic reservation system with a comprehensive system that would incorporate the new Altea solution. The combined system would provide the ability to serve both domestic and international destinations and allow
for other Customer Service, revenue management, and schedule production capabilities. The Amadeus contract provides the option for Southwest to migrate its domestic business to a combined Amadeus solution if it so chooses.

Other Strategic Initiatives

Network Optimization and Revenue Management

During 2012, the
Company continued to use profitability management tools to aggressively manage capacity and route expansion through optimization of its flight schedule to better match demand in certain markets. These efforts contributed to higher yields, strong
load factors, and improved revenues during 2012. The Company also set the stage for longterm growth by further coordinating the Southwest and AirTran flight schedules and making significant progress towards implementing connecting capabilities
between the Southwest and AirTran reservations systems. These enhancements will allow Customers to book flights on either carrier through a single source and to book connecting itineraries between the two carriers. Full deployment of such connecting
capabilities is expected to occur in early 2013 and is expected to enable significant network optimization.

The Company’s
network is continually changing through the addition of new markets, the adjustment of frequencies in existing markets, and the exiting of certain markets. In response to high fuel prices, the Company has discontinued service in 15 AirTran
destinations, eliminated certain routes that proved unsustainable, and redeployed aircraft to other markets. Passenger demand in the Company’s shorthaul markets, in particular, has been negatively affected by higher fares associated with high
fuel prices.

As part of the Company’s network optimization efforts, during 2013 the Company also intends to improve its
operational network efficiency by tightening its scheduled aircraft flying hours per day and turn times. These changes are designed to better utilize available aircraft time during the peak flying hours of each day and are expected to lead to
increased revenue production and less aircraft ground time.

The Company expects the optimization and alignment of the
Southwest and AirTran schedules and networks to be a multi-year undertaking, but believes these efforts can yield significant synergies and financial benefits. The Company intends to continue its network optimization efforts with the goal of
profitably expanding the depth and reach of its overall network.

During the first half of 2013, the Company also plans to
introduce the first phase of a new revenue management system with added revenue management capabilities designed to drive further revenue growth. The new revenue management system will be an origin and destination based revenue management system,
which will replace a segment based system. The new system is designed to allow for a more precise management of Customer demand and inventory and to allow the Company to manage demand in terms of where the Company’s Customers want to fly,
regardless of how they route or connect. The Company expects to implement additional revenue management tools over the next several years.

Cost Containment

Over the last several years, the Company has
undertaken a number of cost-containment projects for the purpose of preserving Southwest’s low-cost advantage and low-fare brand. These have included the network optimization and fleet modernization strategies discussed above. In addition,
these have included various fuel conservation and carbon emission reduction initiatives such as the following:



•installation of blended winglets, which reduce drag and increase fuel efficiency, on all Boeing 737-700 and 737-800 aircraft in Southwest’s fleet
and on a majority of Southwest’s 737-300 aircraft;



•periodic engine washes;







•use of electric ground power for aircraft air and power at the gate;



•deployment of auto-throttle and vertical navigation to maintain optimum cruising speeds;



•implementation of new engine start procedures to support the introduction of new single engine taxi procedures;



•adjustment of the timing of auxiliary power unit starts on originating flights to reduce auxiliary power unit usage; and



•reduced aircraft engine idle speed while on the ground, which also increases engine life.

Aggressive Promotion of the Company’s Points of Differentiation
from its Competitors

During 2012, the Company continued to benefit from, and aggressively market,
Southwest’s points of differentiation from its competitors. For example, Southwest continues to be the only major U.S. airline that does not impose additional fees for first and second checked bags. Through its “Bags Fly Free®” marketing campaign, Southwest has continued to aggressively promote this point of differentiation from its
competitors. The Company believes its decision not to charge for first and second checked bags on Southwest, as reinforced by the Company’s related marketing campaign, has driven an increase in Southwest’s market share and a resulting net
increase in revenues.

Southwest is also the only major U.S. airline that does not impose a fee on any of its fares for a
Customer change in flight plans. The Company has continued to incorporate this key point of differentiation in its marketing campaigns. The campaigns highlight the importance to Southwest of Customer Service by showing that Southwest understands
plans can change and therefore does not charge a change fee. While a Customer may pay a difference in airfare, the Customer will not be charged a change fee on top of any difference in airfare. As discussed below under “Ancillary Services
and Fees,” during 2013, Southwest intends to implement a service charge for reuse of funds associated with “Wanna Get Away” tickets that are not canceled or changed prior to departure.

Also unlike most of its competitors, Southwest does not impose additional fees for items such as seat selection, fuel surcharges, snacks,
curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations. In addition, Southwest allows each ticketed Customer to check one stroller and one car seat free of charge, in addition to the two free checked bags.







Business Traveler Amenities

Southwest offers several products that have been designed to attract additional business/full fare travelers.

Business Select.As discussed above, Southwest’s “Business Select” product includes perks such as
priority boarding, a higher frequent flyer point multiplier than other Southwest fares, priority ticket counter and security checkpoint access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage coupon for the day of travel (for Customers of
legal drinking age).

Fly By®Priority Lanes.Southwest provides Fly By Priority Lane access for its Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members at many of its airports. Fly
By Priority Lanes are priority access lanes located at select ticket counters and security checkpoints. The lanes allow Business Select Customers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members direct access to the front of the line at the ticket counter and/or
security checkpoint. As of December 31, 2012, Fly By Priority Lane Access was available at 58 airports.

SWABIZ.SWABIZ is Southwest’s business travel reservation web page. SWABIZ allows business travelers to plan, book, and purchase Ticketless Travel on Southwest and to efficiently obtain their
lowest fares and maximum frequent flyer credit.

In addition, as discussed below under “Inflight Internet and Live
Television Connectivity,” Southwest has continued to install equipment on its fleet to provide WiFi connectivity and live television.

AirTran currently offers Business Class on every flight; however the Company has stated that it intends, upon full integration of AirTran, to have a consistent all-coach product offering.

Ancillary Services and Fees

During 2012, the Company continued to experience revenue benefits from service offerings such as Southwest’s EarlyBird Check-inSMand Pets Are Welcome on Southwest (P.A.W.S.) products. EarlyBird Check-in allows Customers an automatic checkin and to
obtain an early boarding position directly behind Business Select and A-List Customers by adding an additional $10 to the price of a one-way fare (priority boarding privileges are already included in the purchase of a Business Select fare and are a
benefit of being an A-List frequent flyer – see “Southwest’s All-New Rapid Rewards Frequent Flyer Program” above). The price for EarlyBird Check-in will increase to $12.50 per one-way fare by the end of the first quarter of 2013.
Southwest’s P.A.W.S. offering allows Customers to bring a small cat or dog into the aircraft cabin for a $75 one-way fare. Southwest also charges an additional $50 per one-way trip for unaccompanied minor travel to address the administrative
costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. The Company also expects to continue to benefit from ancillary revenue opportunities created by Southwest’s All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program.

During January 2013, Southwest began selling open premium boarding positions systemwide at the gate for a $40 charge per flight.
Southwest’s sale of open premium boarding positions at the gate provides another early boarding choice for its Customers in addition to Southwest’s “Business Select” product and EarlyBird Check-in.

Southwest also plans, during 2013, to tighten the flexibility with respect to its most restricted fares, known as “Wanna Get
Away,” by implementing a service charge for reuse of funds associated with tickets that are not canceled or changed prior to departure. Southwest expects that, in addition to providing ancillary revenue, the service charge will promote Customer
behavior that allows Southwest to re-sell the open seat prior to departure. The Company has not determined the amount of the service charge or the timing of implementation in 2013.

AirTran currently charges fees for checked baggage, carriage of pets, liquor sales, advance seat assignments, call center services,
priority seat selection, special services such as the transportation of unaccompanied minors, and extension or transfer of A+ Miles Rewards (in addition to fees for the purchase of







A+ Miles Rewards). The Company intends, upon full integration of AirTran, to have a consistent product offering without first or second bag fees or change fees.

Inflight Internet and Live Television Connectivity

Southwest currently offers inflight satellite-based WiFi service on over 400 of its aircraft and continues to work on installing this service on the remainder of its 737-700 aircraft, which is expected to
be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2013. The Company’s fleet of 737-800 aircraft enter into service with the inflight satellite-based service. The Company’s arrangement with its WiFi provider enables the Company to control the
pricing of the service, which is currently $8 a day per device.

During 2012, Southwest began providing Customers on all WiFi
aircraft the option to purchase access to live television, consisting of certain sports and news channels, for viewing on their personal wireless devices. Live television is offered as a separate charge from WiFi, so Customers do not have to
purchase WiFi to purchase live television. Southwest currently offers live television for $5 a day per device.

On
February 1, 2013, Southwest launched movies on demand and an upgraded television package on all WiFi aircraft, consisting of recorded movies and television shows that are stored on the onboard server and streamed wirelessly to Customer devices.
Movies are priced at $5 per movie and television shows are included as part of the $5 television package which includes access to live channels.

AirTran currently offers Gogo Inflight Internet connectivity on every flight. Gogo establishes the charges for, and receives the majority of revenue associated with, such Inflight Internet connectivity.

Proactive Customer Communications

The Company’s Automated Outbound Messaging (“AOM”) service enables it to (i) proactively deliver customized automated voice, text, and e-mail messages to Southwest Customers when there
has been a change in their flight status as a result of a cancellation, gate change, or flight delay (of 30 minutes or more), as well as potential disruptions to Southwest’s scheduled service; and (ii) give Southwest Customers the option
to connect to a Customer Representative or rebook online in the case of cancelled flights. Southwest Customers who book their travel on southwest.com have the option to receive these notifications via telephone (landline or mobile), SMS texting, or
email. In addition to providing flight information to Southwest Customers using their preferred contact method, if applicable, the Company directs Southwest Customers to rebook their flights online via southwest.com/rebook. The AOM strategy is
designed to increase proactive Customer outreach and accommodations, reduce inbound calls, improve contact center management, save costs, and provide a better overall experience.

Wireless Ramp Communication

In 2012 the Company equipped all Southwest ramp Employees systemwide with hands-free wireless headsets to enable the ground crew and pilots to verbally coordinate the process of pushing back planes from
concourse gates. The new devices are expected to add another level of safety to potentially dangerous situations. The headset system could also potentially help to improve ontime departures and fuel efficiency.

Management Information Systems

The Company has continued its commitment to technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. The Company has continued to invest in significant technology necessary to support
several of its initiatives including Southwest’s All-New Rapid Rewards frequent flyer program, enhanced southwest.com website, WiFi implementation, live television connectivity, and its introduction of the Boeing 737-800 aircraft into the
Southwest fleet. Additionally, the Company implemented a new TRAX maintenance inventory management system during 2012 to support its Boeing 737-800 fleet and is currently operating three maintenance inventory management systems. The Company’s
current plan is to transition its existing Southwest







and AirTran systems over to the new TRAX system during 2013 and 2014. The Company also intends to continue to devote significant technology resources to (i) implement connecting capabilities
between the Southwest and AirTran reservations systems, (ii) introduce the first phase of a new revenue management system, and (iii) implement a new reservation system that will allow the Company to add international destinations and
improve revenue management and Customer Service functionality.

Regulation

The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the federal government. Examples of regulations affecting the Company and/or the
industry are discussed below.

Economic and Operational Regulation

The U.S. Department of Transportation

The U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) regulates aviation safety, as well as economic, consumer protection, and civil rights matters. The DOT may impose civil penalties on air
carriers for violating its regulations.

To provide passenger transportation in the United States, a domestic airline is
required to hold an Air Carrier Certificate issued by the DOT. A certificate is unlimited in duration, and the Company’s certificate generally permits it to operate among any points within the United States and its territories and possessions.
Additional DOT authority, in the form of a certificate or exemption from certificate requirements, is required for a U.S. airline to serve foreign destinations either with its own aircraft or via codesharing with another airline. The DOT also has
jurisdiction over international tariffs and pricing in certain markets. The DOT may revoke a certificate or exemption, in whole or in part, for intentional failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders, or the terms of the
certificate itself.

The DOT’s consumer protection and enforcement activities relate to areas such as unfair and deceptive
practices and unfair competition by air carriers, deceptive airline advertising (e.g.,fare, on-time performance, schedule, and codesharing), and violations of rules concerning denied boarding compensation, ticket refunds, and baggage
liability requirements. The DOT is also charged with prohibiting discrimination by airlines and focuses on ensuring that individuals with disabilities obtain nondiscriminatory access to the air transportation system and that the public is not
subjected to unlawful discrimination by airlines on the basis of race, religion, national origin, or sex during the course of their air transportation.

Under the above-described authority, the DOT adopted a so-called “Passenger Protection Rule,” which addresses, among other matters, tarmac delays and chronically delayed flights (i.e.,flights that operate at least 10 times a month and arrive more than 30 minutes late more than 50 percent of the time during that month). Under the Passenger Protection Rule, U.S. passenger airlines are required to adopt contingency plans that
include the following: (i) the assurance that no domestic flight will remain on the airport tarmac for more than three hours unless the pilot-in-command determines there is a safety-related or security-related impediment to deplaning passengers
or air traffic control advises the pilot-in-command that returning to the gate or permitting passengers to disembark elsewhere would significantly disrupt airport operations; (ii) the assurance that air carriers will provide adequate food and
potable drinking water no later than two hours after the aircraft leaves the gate (in the case of departure) or touches down (in the case of arrival) if the aircraft remains on the tarmac, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or
security considerations preclude such service; and (iii) the assurance of operable lavatories, as well as adequate medical attention, if needed. Air carriers are required to publish their contingency plans on their websites.

The Passenger Protection Rule also subjects airlines to potential DOT enforcement action for unfair and deceptive practices in the event
of chronically delayed flights. Airlines are required to (i) display ontime performance on their websites; (ii) adopt customer service plans, publish those plans on their website, and audit their own compliance with their plans;
(iii) designate an employee to monitor the performance of their flights;







(iv) provide information to passengers on how to file complaints; and (v) respond in a timely and substantive fashion to consumer complaints. Airlines that violate the Passenger
Protection Rule are subject to potential fines of up to $27,500 per passenger, the maximum allowed for violating any aviation consumer rule. The DOT has expressed its intent to aggressively investigate alleged violations of the Passenger Protection
Rule.

In August 2011, the DOT implemented new rules expanding the Passenger Protection Rule by, among other things,
(i) increasing the maximum denied boarding compensation airlines must pay to passengers bumped from flights from $800 to $1,300; (ii) requiring airlines to refund any checked bag fee for permanently lost luggage; (iii) requiring
airlines to prominently disclose all potential fees for optional services on their websites; and (iv) requiring airlines to refund passenger fees paid for ancillary services if a flight cancels or oversells and a passenger is unable to take
advantage of such services.

Effective January 26, 2012, the DOT further expanded the Passenger Protection Rule by
implementing a new airfare advertising rule (the “full-fare advertising rule”) that requires all advertised airfares to include government-mandated taxes and fees, including fuel charges and security fees. Other new and expanded components
of the Passenger Protection Rule require, among other things, that: (i) passengers be allowed to hold a reservation for up to 24 hours without making a payment; (ii) passengers be allowed to cancel a paid reservation without penalty for
24 hours after the reservation is made, as long as the reservation is made at least seven days in advance of travel; (iii) fares may not increase after purchase; (iv) baggage fees must be disclosed to the passenger at the time of
booking; (v) the same baggage allowances and fees must apply throughout a passenger’s trip; (vi) baggage fees must be disclosed on e-ticket confirmations; and (vii) passengers must be promptly notified in the event of delays of
more than 30 minutes or if there is a cancellation or diversion of their flight.

The DOT has announced its intention to
further expand the Passenger Protection Rule, with particular focus on the public disclosure of airline-imposed ancillary fees for the sale of optional products and services. The DOT is reportedly considering, among other things, whether to require
airlines to disclose and make such optional products and services available for purchase through all sales channels, including “global distributions systems,” that an airline uses to sell its flights rather than only through proprietary
airline websites. The DOT’s proposed expansion of the Passenger Protection Rule is expected to be released in the first half of 2013. The Company is not able to predict the impact of such a requirement on its services, although the Company is
likely to be affected to a lesser degree than most other airlines, which generally offer more ancillary products and services.

In July 2011, the DOT proposed new rules that would require airlines to report more information to the DOT on the amount and types of
ancillary fees collected from passengers, as well as the number of checked bags and mishandled wheelchairs. The proposal would revise current reporting requirements to increase data collection on the amount airlines receive from different, specific
types of fees. The proposed rule would require airlines to report 18 categories of fee revenue. The DOT has not taken final action in this proceeding.

Aviation Taxes

The statutory authority for the federal government
to collect most types of aviation taxes, which are used, in part, to finance the nation’s airport and air traffic control systems, and the authority of the FAA to expend those funds must be periodically reauthorized by the U.S. Congress. On
February 6, 2012, Congress passed the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, which the President signed into law on February 14, 2012. This legislation extends most commercial aviation taxes through September 30, 2015. In addition
to FAA-related taxes, there are additional federal taxes related to the Department of Homeland Security. These taxes do not need to be reauthorized periodically. In an effort to reduce the federal deficit and generate more government revenue,
Congress may consider increasing the tax burden on commercial aviation. Deficit reduction legislation and comprehensive tax reform are expected to be considered in Congress during 2013. Such legislation could include an increase in one or more of
the taxes unique to commercial aviation. For instance, the Administration has proposed increasing the $2.50 per enplanement security fee, which is assessed on passengers, as a way to help pay for deficit reduction. Grants to airports and/or airport
bond financing may also be affected through future deficit reduction legislation, which could result in higher fees, rates, and charges at many of the airports the Company serves.







The Wright Amendment

Section 29 of the International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979, as amended (commonly known as the “Wright
Amendment”), prohibited the carriage of non-stop and through passengers on commercial flights between Dallas Love Field and all states outside of Texas, with the exception of the following states (the “Wright Amendment States”):
Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Originally, the Wright Amendment permitted an airline to offer flights between Dallas Love Field and the Wright Amendment States only to the extent the airline
did not offer or provide any through service or ticketing with another air carrier at Dallas Love Field and did not market service to or from Dallas Love Field and any point outside of a Wright Amendment State. In other words, a Customer could not
purchase a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any destination other than a Wright Amendment State. These restrictions did not apply to flights operated with aircraft having 56 or fewer passenger seats. The Wright Amendment also did not
restrict Southwest’s intrastate Texas flights or its air service to or from points other than Dallas Love Field.

In 2006,
the Company entered into an agreement with the City of Dallas, the City of Fort Worth, American Airlines, Inc., and the DFW International Airport Board, pursuant to which the five parties sought enactment of legislation to amend the Wright
Amendment. Congress responded by passing the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006, which immediately repealed the original through service and ticketing restrictions by allowing the purchase of a single ticket between Dallas Love Field and any
U.S. destination (while still requiring the Customer to make a stop in a Wright Amendment State), and reduced the maximum number of gates available for commercial air service at Dallas Love Field from 32 to 20. Pursuant to the Wright Amendment
Reform Act and local agreements with the City of Dallas with respect to gates, the Company can expand scheduled service from Dallas Love Field. The Wright Amendment Reform Act also provides for substantial repeal of the remainder of the Wright
Amendment in October 2014. At such time Southwest will be able to fly to any U.S. destination from Dallas Love Field unless such destination is restricted or otherwise limited by law. Nonstop international service from Dallas Love Field will
continue to be prohibited. The Company currently leases 16 gates at Dallas Love Field and expects to continue leasing 16 gates at the airport following substantial repeal of the remainder of the Wright Amendment in October 2014.

Operational, Safety, and Health Regulation

Southwest, AirTran, and their third-party maintenance providers are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to their aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground
facilities, dispatch, communications, flight training personnel, and other matters affecting air safety. The FAA, acting through its own powers or through the appropriate U.S. Attorney, has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition and
collection of fines for violation of the Federal Aviation Regulations.

To address compliance with its regulations, the FAA
requires airlines to obtain, and Southwest and AirTran have obtained, operating, airworthiness, and other certificates. These certificates are subject to suspension or revocation for cause. In addition, pursuant to FAA regulations, Southwest and
AirTran have established, and the FAA has approved or accepted, as applicable, Southwest’s and AirTran’s operations specifications and maintenance programs for their respective aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections to major
overhauls. Effective as of March 1, 2012, the Company obtained approval from the FAA of a single operating certificate that allows the Company to operate aircraft and perform maintenance operations for both Southwest and AirTran aircraft,
subject to some restrictions.

In December 2011, the DOT and the FAA issued a rule to amend the FAA’s existing flight,
duty, and rest regulations. Among other things, the new rule, which will go into effect in 2014, requires a ten hour minimum rest period prior to a pilot’s flight duty period, a two-hour increase over the old rules. The new rule also mandates
that a pilot must have an opportunity for eight hours of uninterrupted sleep within the ten-hour rest period. Pilots will also be limited to no more than nine hours of “flight time,” which is considered by the FAA to be any time an
airplane is moving on its own power, even if it is on the ground at an airport. Pilots will also be limited to 28 working days in a month and will be required to be given at least 30 consecutive hours free from duty on a weekly basis, a 25
percent increase over the current rules.







The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations
relating to occupational safety and health, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Food and Drug Administration regulations.

Security Regulation

Enhanced security measures have also impacted the Company’s business through the imposition of security fees on Southwest and AirTran
and their Customers. Under ATSA, funding for passenger security is provided in part by a $2.50 per enplanement security fee (the “9/11 Fee”), subject to a maximum of $5.00 per one-way trip. In September 2011, the Administration proposed to
Congress an immediate increase of the 9/11 Fee to a minimum of $5.00 per one-way trip and also proposed additional yearly increases that would raise the 9/11 Fee to $7.50 per one-way trip by 2017. Congress may consider an increase in the 9/11
Fee, as well as other changes to ATSA, as part of future security or deficit reduction legislation. ATSA also directs the TSA to assess an Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee (“ASIF”) on each airline. The ASIF charge that each airline
pays is equal to that airline’s annual cost for passenger security services at airports prior to the creation of TSA in 2001.

The Company has made significant investments to address the effect of security regulations, including investments in facilities, equipment, and technology to process Customers and cargo efficiently and
restore the airport experience; however, the Company is not able to predict the ongoing impact, if any, that various security measures will have on Passenger revenues and the Company’s costs, either in the shortterm or the longterm.

Environmental Regulation

The Company is subject to various federal laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act,
the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern aircraft drinking water, emissions from operations, and the
discharge or disposal of materials such as jet fuel, chemicals, hazardous waste, and aircraft deicing fluid. Additionally, in conjunction with airport authorities, other airlines, and state and local environmental regulatory agencies, the Company,
as a normal course of business, undertakes voluntary







investigation or remediation of soil or groundwater contamination at several airport sites. The Company does not believe that any environmental liability associated with these airport sites will
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, costs, or profitability, nor has it experienced any such liability in the past that has had a material adverse effect on its operations, costs, or profitability. Further regulatory
developments pertaining to the control of engine exhaust emissions from ground support equipment could increase operating costs in the airline industry. The Company does not believe, however, that pending environmental regulatory developments in
this area will have a material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures or otherwise materially adversely affect its operations, operating costs, or competitive position.

The federal government, as well as several state and local governments and the governments of other countries, are considering legislative
and regulatory proposals to address climate change by reducing green-house gas emissions. At the federal level, the Environmental Protection Agency’s Endangerment Finding in January 2010 regarding greenhouse gas emissions set the stage for
possible legislative or regulatory action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from various segments of the economy, including from aviation. The airline industry could be affected directly through new unfunded mandates or indirectly through higher
fuel costs as fuel providers pass on any additional costs to fuel consumers. Regardless of the method of regulation, policy changes with regards to climate change are possible, which could significantly increase operating costs in the airline
industry and, as a result, adversely affect operations.

The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 gives airport operators the
right, under certain circumstances, to implement local noise abatement programs, so long as they do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Some airports have established airport
restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of operations. These types of restrictions can cause curtailments in service or increases in
operating costs and could limit the ability of the Company to expand its operations at the affected airports.

As part of its commitment to corporate sustainability, the Company has published the Southwest One ReportTMdescribing the Company’s sustainability strategies, which include efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and
address other environmental matters such as energy and water conservation, waste minimization, and recycling. As discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives — Cost Containment,” the Company has also committed
significant resources towards implementation of RNP procedures, which are designed to conserve fuel and reduce carbon emissions. In addition, the Company’s “Green Team” targets areas of environmental improvement in all aspects of the
Company’s business, while at the same time remaining true to the Company’s low-cost philosophy.

International
Regulation

All international service is subject to certain FAA requirements and approvals, the regulatory requirements of
other U.S. government agencies, and the regulatory requirements of the appropriate authorities of the foreign countries involved. Southwest and AirTran have obtained the necessary FAA approvals to conduct operations, under certain circumstances,
outside of the continental United States. To the extent the Company seeks to service additional international routes in the future, it will be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT, as well as any applicable foreign government or other
authority.

Insurance

The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and in amounts deemed adequate to protect the Company and its property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain of
the Company’s credit and lease agreements. The policies principally provide coverage for public and passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or damage to aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers’
compensation.

Through the 2003 Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the “Wartime Act”), the federal
government has provided renewable, supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage to commercial







carriers at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates and for levels of coverage not available in the commercial market. The government-provided supplemental coverage from the
Wartime Act is currently set to expire on September 30, 2013. Although another extension beyond this date is expected, if such coverage is not extended by the government, the Company could incur substantially higher insurance costs or
unavailability of adequate coverage in future periods.

Competition

Competition within the airline industry is intense and highly unpredictable, and Southwest and AirTran currently compete with other
airlines on a majority of their routes. Key competitive factors within the airline industry include (i) pricing and cost structure; (ii) routes, frequent flyer programs, and schedules; and (iii) customer service, comfort, and
amenities. Southwest and AirTran also compete for customers with other forms of transportation, as well as alternatives to travel. In recent years, the majority of domestic airline service has been provided by Southwest and the other largest major
U.S. airlines, including American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, United Airlines, and US Airways. The DOT defines the major U.S. airlines as those airlines with annual revenues of at least $1 billion; there are currently 15 passenger airlines
offering scheduled service, including Southwest and AirTran, meeting this standard.

Pricing and Cost Structure

Pricing is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the increased availability of fare information on
the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. Pricing can be driven by a variety of factors. For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic
when necessary to improve load factors and/or cash flow. In addition, multiple airlines have been able to reduce fares because they have been able to lower their operating costs as a result of reorganization within and outside of bankruptcy.
Further, some of the Company’s competitors have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat (empty or full) one
mile), which in turn may enable them to lower their fares. These factors can reduce the pricing power of the Company and the airline industry as a whole.

The Company believes its low-cost operating structure continues to provide it with an advantage over many of its airline competitors by enabling Southwest and AirTran to continue to charge low fares. The
Company also believes it has gained a competitive advantage by differentiating itself from all of its major competitors by not charging additional fees for items such as first and second checked bags, flights changes, seat selection, fuel
surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations.

Routes, Frequent Flyer Programs, and Schedules

e.g.,







implement initiatives to better enable Southwest and AirTran to offer additional itineraries. In addition, the Company’s acquisition of AirTran enabled the Company to (i) expand its
presence in key markets Southwest already served, (ii) grow the Company’s presence in key markets Southwest did not previously serve, (iii) extend service to many smaller domestic cities Southwest did not previously serve, and
(iv) provide access to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and key near-international markets in the Caribbean and Mexico.

Customer Service, Comfort, and Amenities

Southwest and AirTran also compete with other airlines in areas of Customer Service such as ontime performance, passenger amenities, flight equipment type, and comfort. According to statistics published
by the DOT, Southwest consistently ranks at or near the top for Customer Satisfaction for having the lowest Customer complaint ratio. Some airlines, including AirTran, have more seating options and associated passenger amenities than does Southwest,
including first-class, business class, and other premium seating and related amenities. Additionally, some major U.S. airlines have announced plans to add a significant number of new aircraft to their fleets. Such efforts could provide cost benefits
to these airlines through fleet simplification, better fuel efficiencies, and lower maintenance costs. Additionally, such new aircraft could have newer and different passenger amenities than those contained in the Company’s existing fleet. The
Company is addressing this competitive factor with its fleet modernization initiatives, which are discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives – Fleet Modernization” and “Operating Strategies and Initiatives –
Incorporation of the Larger Boeing 737-800 into the Southwest Fleet.”

Other Forms of Competition

The airline industry is subject to varying degrees of competition from surface transportation by automobiles, buses, and trains.
Inconveniences and delays associated with air travel security measures can increase surface competition. In addition, surface competition can be significant during economic downturns when consumers cut back on discretionary spending and fewer choose
to fly. Because of the relatively high percentage of shorthaul travel provided by Southwest, it is particularly exposed to competition from surface transportation in these instances. The airline industry is also subject to competition from
alternatives to travel such as videoconferencing and the Internet, which can increase in the event of travel inconveniences and economic downturns. The Company is subject to the risk that air travel inconveniences and economic downturns may, in some
cases, result in permanent changes to consumer behavior in favor of surface transportation and electronic communications.

Seasonality

The Company’s business is somewhat seasonal. Generally, in most markets the Company serves, demand for air
travel is greater during the summer months, and therefore, revenues in the airline industry tend to be stronger in the second (April 1 – June 30) and third (July 1 – September 30) quarters of the year than in the first (January 1
– March 31) and fourth (October 1 – December 31) quarters of the year. As a result, in many cases, the Company’s results of operations reflect this seasonality. Factors that could alter this seasonality include,
among others, the price of fuel, general economic conditions, extreme or severe weather, fears of terrorism or war, or changes in the competitive environment. Therefore, the Company’s quarterly operating results are not necessarily
indicative of operating results for the entire year and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.

Employees

At December 31, 2012, the Company had 45,861 active
fulltime equivalent Employees, consisting of 19,575 flight, 3,208 maintenance, 20,374 ground, Customer, and fleet service, and 2,704 management, accounting, marketing, and clerical personnel (associated with non-operational departments). The Railway
Labor Act establishes the right of airline employees to organize and bargain collectively. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 83 percent of the Company’s Employees were represented by labor unions. The various labor groups are covered
by 19 different collective-bargaining agreements (“CBAs”). Under the Railway Labor Act, collective-bargaining agreements between an airline and a labor union generally do not expire, but instead







become amendable as of an agreed date. By the amendable date, if either party wishes to modify the terms of the agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner required by the Railway
Labor Act and/or described in the agreement. After receipt of the notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations. If no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board to appoint a federal mediator. If no agreement
is reached in mediation, the National Mediation Board may determine an impasse exists and offer binding arbitration to the parties. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day “cooling off” period begins. At the end of this
30-day period, the parties may engage in “self-help,” unless a Presidential Emergency Board is established to investigate and report on the dispute. The appointment of a Presidential Emergency Board maintains the “status quo” for
an additional 60 days. If the parties do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in “self-help.” “Self-help” includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the airline’s imposition of
any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers. The following table sets forth the Company’s Employee groups subject to CBAs and the status of the respective CBAs:



Employee GroupRepresentativesStatus of AgreementSouthwest PilotsSouthwest Airlines Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”)Currently in negotiationsSouthwest Flight AttendantsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 556 (“TWU 556”)Amendable May 2013Southwest Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, Freight AgentsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 555 (“TWU 555”)Currently in negotiationsSouthwest Customer Service Agents, Customer RepresentativesInternational Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO (“IAM 142”)Currently in negotiationsSouthwest Materials Specialists (formerly known as Stock Clerks)International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 19 (“IBT 19”)Amendable August 2013Southwest MechanicsAircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (“AMFA”)Currently in negotiationsSouthwest Aircraft Appearance TechniciansAMFAAmendable February 2017Southwest Facilities Maintenance TechniciansAMFACurrently in negotiationsSouthwest DispatchersTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 550 (“TWU 550”)Amendable November 2014Southwest Flight Simulator TechniciansInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (“IBT”)Amendable October 2013Southwest Flight Crew Training InstructorsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 557 (“TWU 557”)Amendable December 2015AirTran PilotsAir Line Pilots Association (“ALPA”)Amendable December 2015. Per seniority list integration agreement, transition to Southwest to be completed no later than January
2015.







Employee GroupRepresentativesStatus of AgreementAirTran Flight AttendantsAssociation of Flight Attendants (“AFA”)Amendable May 2013.AirTran Mechanics and InspectorsInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 528 (“IBT 528”)Amendable October 2013. Fully transitioned to Southwest in August 2012.AirTran Technical Trainers/Ground InstructorsIBT 528Amendable March 2014AirTran Stores/Stock ClerksIBT 528Amendable June 2013AirTran Ground Service Mechanics/EmployeesIBT 528Amendable September 2013. Fully transitioned to Southwest in August 2012.AirTran DispatchersTransportation Workers Union of America, Local 540 (“TWU 540”)Amendable March 2014AirTran Fleet & Passenger Service Employees (customer service, ramp, reservations)IAM 142The parties have negotiated an interim collective bargaining agreement to be effective until affected AirTran Employees are transitioned to Southwest.

Pending completion of operational integration of AirTran with the Company, it will be necessary to
maintain a “fence” between Southwest and AirTran Employee groups subject to CBAs, during which time the Company and AirTran will continue to keep these Employee groups separate, each applying the terms of its own existing CBAs, unless
other terms have been negotiated.

As discussed above under “Operating Strategies and Initiatives – Integration of
AirTran,” seniority list integration methodologies have now been resolved for all Southwest and AirTran workgroups.

Additional
Information About the Company

The Company was incorporated in Texas in 1967. The following documents are available free of
charge through the Company’s website, www.southwest.com: the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports that are filed with or
furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These materials are made available through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably
practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.







DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the Company’s
forward-looking statements, which represent the Company’s views only as of the date this report is filed. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information,
future events, or otherwise.



