Item 1. Business

Company Overview

Southwest Airlines Co. (the “Company”) is a major passenger airline that provides scheduled air
transportation in the United States. The Company commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. The Company ended 2009 with 537 active Boeing 737
aircraft serving 68 cities in 35 states throughout the United States, and, despite what has been reported to be one of the worst years in aviation history from an economic standpoint, the Company began service during 2009 to four new airports:
Minneapolis-St. Paul (in March), New York’s LaGuardia Airport (in June), Boston’s Logan International Airport (in August), and Milwaukee International Airport (in November). The Company also announced its intent to begin service from
Northwest Florida Beaches International Airport near Panama City, Florida in May 2010. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation, as of June 30, 2009, the Company was the largest air carrier in the
United States, as measured by the number of originating passengers boarded.

The Company principally provides point-to-point,
rather than hub-and-spoke, service. This allows the Company to maximize the use of key assets, including aircraft, gates, and Employees, and also facilitates the Company’s ability to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights
and low fares. The Company’s point-to-point service is discussed in more detail below under “Company Operations — General.”

The Company has predominantly served short-haul routes with high frequencies. Over recent years, the Company has complemented this service with medium to long-haul routes, including transcontinental
service.

Industry

A difficult U.S. economic environment continued to negatively impact the airline industry during 2009. This reduced business demand, as companies tightened corporate travel policies, resulting in a decline in business travel and a decrease
in the percentage of full-fare purchases. This also resulted in a decrease in discretionary spending by leisure travelers. As a result, many airlines, including the Company, responded with capacity cuts and fare discounting.

Fuel prices also continued to impact the industry. Although fuel prices were lower overall than in 2008, prices remained much higher than
long-term historical averages.

Company Operations

General

The Company principally provides point-to-point service, rather
than the “hub-and-spoke” service provided by most major U.S. airlines (often referred to as “legacy airlines”), in order to minimize connections, delays, and total trip time. Point-to-point service allows for more direct
non-stop routing than hub-and-spoke service because the hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline’s operations at a limited number of hub cities and serves most other destinations in the system by providing one-stop or connecting
service through the hub. Approximately 76 percent of the Company’s Customers flew non-stop during 2009, and the Company’s average aircraft trip stage length in 2009 was 639 miles with an average duration of approximately 1.8 hours.
Approximately 78 percent of the Company’s Customers flew non-stop during 2008, and the Company’s average aircraft trip stage length in 2008 was 636 miles with an average duration of approximately 1.8 hours.

The Company’s point-to-point service also enables it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights. Examples of
markets offering frequent daily flights are: Dallas Love Field to Houston Hobby, 27 weekday roundtrips; Phoenix to Las Vegas, 15 weekday roundtrips; and Los Angeles International to Oakland,







16 weekday roundtrips. The Company complements these high-frequency short-haul routes with long-haul, nonstop service between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Las Vegas and Orlando, and
San Diego and Baltimore. As of December 31, 2009, the Company served 437 non-stop city pairs.

The Company operates with
a low cost structure that is designed to allow it to charge low fares. Adjusted for stage length, the Company has lower unit costs, on average, than most major carriers. The Company’s low cost structure is facilitated by the
Company’s reliance upon a single aircraft type, its operationally efficient point-to-point route structure, and its highly productive Employees. The Company’s use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737, enables it to simplify
scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, and training activities. The Company’s point-to-point route structure includes service to and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway,
Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland, San Jose, Providence, Ft. Lauderdale/Hollywood, and Long Island Islip airports. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines’
hub airports, which enables the Company to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they are on the ground. This in turn reduces the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise
be required and allows for high Employee productivity (headcount per aircraft) and a strong on-time performance record.

Fuel Impact

For the fifth consecutive year, Fuel and oil expense represented the Company’s largest or
second largest cost. The table below shows the Company’s average cost of jet fuel and oil over the past five years and during each quarter of 2009:



YearCost*(Millions)AverageCostPerGallon*Percent ofOperatingExpenses*2005$1,470$1.1321.4%2006$2,284$1.6428.0%2007$2,690$1.8029.7%2008$3,713$2.4435.1%2009$3,044$2.1230.2%First Quarter 2009$698$1.9929.0%Second Quarter 2009$726$1.9529.1%Third Quarter 2009$826$2.2731.2%Fourth Quarter 2009$794$2.2931.2%



*The Company reclassified fuel sales and excise taxes for the years 2005 through 2007 from “Other operating expenses” to “Fuel and oil expense” in
order to conform to the presentation for 2008 and 2009. Average fuel cost per gallon figures, as well as the percent of operating expenses, have also been recalculated based on the reclassified information.

The Company has historically entered into fuel derivative contracts to protect against rising fuel costs; however, as a result of a
significant decline in fuel prices at the end of 2008, the Company significantly reduced its net fuel hedge position in place for 2009 through 2013. During 2009, the Company began to rebuild its fuel hedge portfolio, when lower market prices
presented an opportunity to economically layer back in some protection in the event of a significant surge in market prices. The Company continues to actively manage its fuel hedge portfolio. The Company’s fuel hedging activities are discussed
in more detail below under “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

2009 Operating Strategies and Initiatives

During 2009, the Company
responded to economic conditions and the resulting industry revenue decline with a significant amount of change. As discussed further below, the Company’s actions included initiatives







designed to increase unit revenues and to reduce capital spending and operating costs. The Company also continued its efforts to implement longer-term strategies and initiatives to enhance
Customer Service and improve future revenues.

Network Optimization

During 2009, the Company continued to aggressively evaluate and optimize its network through continual adjustments to its flight schedule,
and, for only the second time in the Company’s history, it reduced capacity year-over-year on a net basis. Although the Company reduced overall available seat miles, the schedule optimization process better matched the Company’s flights
with expected demand during a period of difficult economic and industry conditions. By reducing certain unprofitable flights in its system, the Company was able to redeploy capacity to new and more productive markets.

Low Fare Commitment; Aggressive Promotion of Low Fare Brand

The Company employs a relatively simple fare structure, featuring low, unrestricted, unlimited, everyday coach fares, as well as even lower
fares available on a restricted basis. The Company generally offers substantially lower walkup fares on its short and medium haul flights. During 2009, the Company enhanced its revenue management structure and techniques to allow it to offer an
increased variety of low fare options in response to the economy’s negative effect on demand.

The
Company bundles fares into three major categories: “Wanna Get Away®,” “Anytime™,” and “Business Select™,” with the goal of making it easier for Customers to choose the fare they prefer. “Wanna Get Away” fares are generally the lowest fares and are
subject to advance purchase requirements. They are also non-refundable, but may be applied to future travel on Southwest Airlines. “Anytime” fares are refundable and changeable and may also be applied toward future travel on Southwest
Airlines. “Business Select” fares are also refundable and changeable, but include additional perks such as priority boarding, bonus frequent flyer credit, priority security access in select airports, and one complimentary adult beverage
(for Customers of legal drinking age). The Company’s “Business Select” program contributed approximately $72 million in revenues during 2009.

During 2009, the Company continued to aggressively underscore and promote its low fare brand with marketing campaigns
designed to address the difficult economy head-on and promote the points of differentiation between the Company and its competitors. In June, the Company introduced its “Grab Your Bag. It’s On™” campaign in order to connect with its Customers in a positive way during difficult economic times. The campaign encouraged Customers to move
forward and take control of their business with the help of the Company’s low fare advantage and “can do” attitude. In the fall, the Company launched its “Bags Fly Free™” campaign to publicize the differences between the Company and its competitors, virtually all of which charge additional fees for items such as first or second
checked bags, seat selection, fuel surcharges, snacks, curb-side checkin, and telephone reservations. The “Bags Fly Free” campaign educates consumers about the potential impact of bag fees on the consumer’s total trip cost when flying
on other airlines, which can be a particularly unwelcome surprise during difficult economic times. The Company also promoted targeted fare sales, which stimulated demand and resulted in Company-record load factors in every month from July through
December 2009.

Revenue Enhancement Initiatives

During 2009, the Company implemented various programs and processes to boost near-term revenues and create additional opportunities for
revenue growth.

Enhancements to Southwest.com.In March, the Company launched a new and improved
southwest.com website, which has provided access to additional southwest.com products and services and is also intended to lay the foundation for future revenue-generating opportunities. The enhanced website allows Customers who access southwest.com
from their web-enabled mobile or handheld devices to book







flights, check flight status, view flight schedules, and login to their frequent flyer account from their mobile devices. 77 percent of the Company’s Customers already book directly online,
and, for the year ended December 31, 2009, nearly 77 percent of the Company’s Passenger revenues came through its website (including SWABiz revenues), which has become a vital part of the Company’ distribution strategy. In addition,
for the year ended December 31, 2009, more than 94 percent of the Company’s Customers chose the Company’s E-ticket travel option, which eliminates the need to print and process a paper ticket.

In March, the Company launched a new Travel Guide on southwest.com, which provides a variety of benefits to assist Customers
in making travel plans. Travel Guide users can share their own travel experiences and view ratings, reviews, photos, and videos posted by fellow travelers of destinations, hotels, restaurants, and activities they recommend. Customers can create
their own Travel Guide profile and search for information on their favorite vacation spots by desired destination, activity, or theme. Each destination page features a city bio, a seven-day weather forecast, information on local hotels, shopping,
nightlife and restaurants, airport information, and driving directions to local attractions. According to independent sources, southwest.com is already one of the most visited travel websites in the world.

Ancillary Services and Fees.In June, the Company introduced charges for non-routine ancillary activities. The
Company began allowing Customers to bring small cats and dogs into the aircraft cabin for a $75 one-way fare. The Company also implemented a $25 each way service charge for Customers who travel as an unaccompanied minor to address the costs to the
Company related to the administrative work and extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers. The Company also increased its already existing service charge to check a third or overweight bag by $25.

EarlyBird Check-in™.In September, the Company introduced “EarlyBird Check-in,” which allows Customers to receive an automatically assigned boarding position before
general check-in begins by adding $10 to the price of a one-way fare. Customers who purchase EarlyBird Check-in are able to board ahead of all passengers except “Business Select” and “A-List™” frequent fliers. Priority boarding privileges are already included in the purchase of a Business Select fare and are a benefit of being an A-List
frequent flyer.

Other Initiatives.During 2009, the Company also continued
to work on other initiatives designed to pave the way for additional revenue opportunities, such as an enhanced Rapid Rewards®frequent flyer program, inflight Internet connectivity, increased sales distribution channels, and Business Select product enhancements. In addition, during 2009, in
connection with the Company’s previously announced plans to implement a codeshare relationship with Mexican carrier Volaris, the Company began offering Customers the ability to book flights to Mexico on Volaris via an online link to
Volaris’ booking portal on www.southwest.com. The Company has delayed implementation of its codeshare arrangements with Volaris, as well as with Canadian carrier WestJet, in order to reallocate staffing and technology resources to support
nearer term revenue opportunities.

Customer Service Enhancements

During 2009, the Company continued to focus on improving the Customer Experience through initiatives such as “Fly
By™” security lanes, improved baggage tracking, “virtual hold” Customer Service call-backs, and
proactive Customer communications through automated outbound messaging.

“Fly
By” Security Lanes.The Company has introduced “Fly By” security lanes at 44 of its airports and intends to expand the program to additional airports as needed. A “Fly By” lane is a priority access lane located at
the security checkpoint and the ticket counter reserved for the Company’s Business SelectCustomers and Rapid Rewards A-List Members. The lane allows these Customers direct access to the front of the line at the ticket counter and/or security checkpoint.

Improved Baggage Tracking.The Company also introduced on-hand baggage scanners, which provide Customer
Service agents (i) visibility to bags in the Company’s possession across the system, (ii) increased efficiency and organization with the automation provided by the scanning equipment, and (iii) the ability to recover misplaced
bags more quickly for Customers and provide information as to the timing of bag returns.







Virtual Hold Customer Service Call Back Capabilities.The
Company has also added a “virtual hold” callback capability to its Customer Service capabilities. Customers who are waiting to speak to a Company representative on the Company’s toll-free number may elect to hang up the phone, keep
their place in the queue, and receive a callback when a representative is available.

Automated Outbound
Messaging.The Company has also completed implementation of Automated Outbound Messaging, which has enabled the Company to proactively (i) contact Customers via phone to inform them of cancelled or delayed flights and gate changes and
(ii) give Customers the option to connect to a Customer Representative in the case of cancelled flights.

Cost-Cutting Initiatives

During 2009, the Company continued its efforts to mitigate cost pressures. The
Company addressed costs through the strategic capacity cuts and network optimization discussed above, as well as through other cost reduction and process improvement initiatives.

Employee Actions.In April, the Company launched a voluntary early-out program, “Freedom ’09,”
that was accepted by 1,404 Employees. Under the program, the Company offered cash bonuses, medical/dental coverage for a specified period of time, and travel privileges based on work group and years of service. The purpose of the program was to
right-size headcount in conjunction with the Company’s decision to reduce its capacity, as well as to reduce costs in subsequent years. Virtually all of the Company’s Employees hired before March 31, 2008, were eligible to
participate. The Company also implemented a freeze on overall headcount and a salary freeze for senior management.

Reduced Capital Expenditures and Cost Reductions.The Company materially reduced its capital spending in 2009 by deferring new aircraft deliveries into future years, as well as by reducing non-strategic, non-aircraft spending.

Winglets.In 2009, the Company completed the installation of Aviation Partners Boeing Blended
Winglets on a total of 21 of its 737-300 aircraft (all 737-700 aircraft have already been equipped with winglets). The winglets are designed to reduce drag and increase fuel efficiency.

Required Navigational Performance.In December 2009, the Federal Aviation Administration (the “FAA”)
approved the Company’s Airlines Operation Specification, which will allow the Company to fly GPS (Global Positioning System) approach procedures beginning in second quarter 2010. GPS approaches use GPS space-based navigation (GPS satellites)
instead of ground-based navigation aids. This will enable aircraft to carry navigation capabilities rather than relying on airports. It will also improve operational capability by opening up many new and more direct approach paths and creates the
necessary foundation for future Required Navigation Performance (RNP) operations. The Company expects to complete its RNP training and begin RNP operations by the end of 2010. RNP is one of the cornerstones for the FAA’s Next Generation Air
Traffic Control System and combines GPS, the capabilities of advanced aircraft avionics, and new flight procedures for the purpose of achieving safer, more efficient, and environmentally friendly flight operations. RNP procedures are designed to
conserve fuel, improve safety, and reduce carbon emissions, while simultaneously taking advantage of the high-performance characteristics that exist in an airline’s fleet. The Company has already activated autothrottles and VNAV (vertical
navigation) on its aircraft, which is providing current benefits such as fuel savings and reduced carbon emissions.

Rapid
Rewards Frequent Flyer Program

The Company offers a frequent flyer program, Rapid Rewards, which allows Customers to earn
credits towards free flights based on trips flown. Rapid Rewards Members can earn a credit for each one-way trip flown or two credits for each roundtrip flown. They can also earn credits by using the services of non-airline “Preferred
Partners,” which include, for example, car rental agencies, hotels, restaurants, and retail locations, as well as by using the Southwest Airlines Rapid Rewards Visa Signature Card.







Rapid Rewards offers different types of travel award opportunities (“Awards”),
including the Standard Award, the Freedom Award, and the Companion Pass. Rapid Rewards Members also have the opportunity to become “A-List” Customers and receive priority boarding privileges.

Standard Awards.Rapid Rewards Members who accumulate 16 credits within 24 consecutive months automatically
receive a Standard Award in their account. Standard Awards are valid for one free roundtrip to any destination available on Southwest Airlines. Standard Awards are valid for 12 months after issuance and are subject to seat restrictions.

Freedom Awards.Rapid Rewards Members who have earned two Standard Awards may convert those Awards into a
Freedom Award, which is free of seat restrictions except for a limited number of “Black-out” dates around major holidays. Freedom Awards are valid for 12 months from the date of the Standard Award with the earliest expiration date (or, for
a $50 fee, 12 months from the date the Standard Awards are converted) and are subject to seat restrictions.

Companion Passes.Rapid Rewards Members who earn 100 credits within a consecutive 12-month period automatically receive a Companion Pass, which provides for unlimited free roundtrip travel to any destination available on
Southwest for a designated companion of the qualifying Rapid Rewards Member. The Rapid Rewards Member and designated companion must travel together on the same flight. Companion Passes are valid for 12 months after issuance, but are not subject
to seat restrictions or blackout dates.

Priority Boarding Privileges.Rapid Rewards Members who
fly at least 32 qualifying one-way flights within a 12-month period receive priority boarding privileges for an entire year. When these Customers purchase travel at least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best boarding pass number
available (generally, an “A” boarding pass). Customers on this “A-List” are automatically checked in for their flight in advance of departure. These Customers also gain access to “Fly By” priority check-in and security
lanes where available.

The Company’s Customers redeemed approximately 2.4 million, 2.8 million, and
2.8 million Awards during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The amount of free travel Award usage as a percentage of total Company revenue passenger miles flown was 7.7 percent in 2009, 8.3 percent in 2008, and 8.1 percent in 2007. The
number of fully earned Awards and partially earned Awards outstanding at December 31, 2009, was approximately 10.3 million, of which approximately 77 percent were partially earned Awards. The number of fully earned Awards and partially
earned Awards outstanding at December 31, 2008, was approximately 10.4 million, of which approximately 78 percent were partially earned Awards. However, due to the expected expiration of a portion of credits making up partial Awards, not
all of them will eventually turn into useable Awards. In addition, not all Awards will be redeemed for future travel. Since the inception of Rapid Rewards in 1987, approximately 16 percent of all fully earned Awards have expired without being used.
The number of Companion Passes outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was approximately 65,000 and 67,000, respectively. The Company currently estimates that an average of two to three trips will be redeemed per outstanding Companion Pass.

The Company currently accounts for its Rapid Rewards program obligations by recording, at the time an Award is earned, a
liability for the estimated incremental cost of the use of flight Awards the Company expects to be redeemed. The Company does not accrue for partial Awards. The estimated incremental cost includes direct passenger costs such as fuel, food, and other
operational costs, but does not include any contribution to overhead or profit. Revenue from the sale of credits to business partners and associated with future travel is deferred and recognized when the ultimate free travel Award is flown or the
credits expire unused. The liability for free travel Awards earned but not used at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was not material to the Company’s business.

Management Information Systems

The Company has continued its commitment to
technology improvements to support its ongoing operations and initiatives. During 2009, the Company replaced or enhanced technology related to its point of sale, electronic







ticketing and boarding, and revenue accounting systems, among others. The Company is also converting to a new SAP Enterprise Resource Planning application, which will replace its general ledger,
accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll, benefits, cash management, and fixed asset systems, with a goal of completion during 2010. The conversion is designed to improve the Company’s key business processes by implementing an integrated
tool to increase efficiency, consistency, data accuracy, and cost effectiveness.

Regulation

The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the federal government. Examples of regulations affecting the Company and/or the
industry are discussed below.

Economic and Operational Regulation

The U.S. Department of Transportation. The U.S. Department of Transportation (the “DOT”) has
significant regulatory jurisdiction over passenger airlines. To provide passenger transportation in the United States, a domestic airline is required to hold a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity issued by the DOT. A certificate is
unlimited in duration, and the Company’s certificate generally permits it to operate among any points within the United States and its territories and possessions. Additional DOT authority, in the form of a certificate or exemption from
certificate requirements, is required for a U.S. airline to serve foreign destinations either with its own aircraft or via codesharing with another airline. In 2009, the Company applied for and received exemption authority from the DOT to provide
air service between U.S. points and Canadian points. Receipt of such authority is a precondition to being able to hold out any type of air service between the United States and Canada, including service under a codesharing agreement with a Canadian
airline. The DOT may revoke a certificate or exemption, in whole or in part, for intentional failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders, or the terms of the certificate itself.

The DOT also has jurisdiction over certain economic and consumer protection matters such as airline codesharing, advertising,
denied boarding compensation, baggage liability, and access for persons with disabilities. The DOT may impose civil penalties on air carriers for violations of its regulations in these areas. In December 2009, the DOT issued a new consumer
protection rule addressing tarmac delays and chronically late flights (i.e.,flights that arrive more than 30 minutes late more than 50 percent of the time). As part of the new rule, which is scheduled to go into effect in April 2010,
passenger airlines are required to adopt contingency plans that include the assurance that no domestic flight will remain on an airport tarmac for more than three consecutive hours, unless there is a valid safety or security reason for doing so. The
new rule mandates that carriers provide adequate food and water to passengers if the aircraft remains on the tarmac for two hours or more.

Aviation Taxes. The statutory authority for the federal government to collect aviation taxes, which are used, in part, to finance the nation’s airport and air traffic control
systems, and the authority of the FAA to expend those funds must be periodically reauthorized by the U.S. Congress. This authority was originally scheduled to expire on September 30, 2007. However, Congress has approved extensions of this
authority, with the most recent extension set to expire March 31, 2010. Other proposals that could be considered by Congress in connection with the FAA reauthorization legislation include: (i) the imposition of new, or changes to,
aviation-specific taxes; (ii) an increase in the amount of airport passenger facility charges; and (iii) the adoption of new unfunded mandates on commercial airlines such as new environmental, consumer, and labor standards, any of which
could have an impact on the Company’s operations.

The Wright Amendment. Section 29 of
the International Air Transportation Competition Act of 1979, as amended (commonly known as the “Wright Amendment”) prohibited the carriage of nonstop and through passengers on commercial flights between Dallas Love Field and all states
outside of Texas, with the exception of the following states (the “Wright Amendment States”): Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Originally, the Wright Amendment permitted an airline to
offer flights between Dallas Love Field and the Wright Amendment States only to the extent the airline did not offer or provide any through service or ticketing with another air carrier at Dallas Love Field and did







Safety and Health Regulation

The Company and its third-party
maintenance providers are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to the Company’s aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, flight training personnel, and other matters
affecting air safety. To ensure compliance with its regulations, the FAA requires airlines to obtain, and the Company has obtained, operating, airworthiness, and other certificates. These certificates are subject to suspension or revocation for
cause. In addition, pursuant to FAA regulations, the Company has established, and the FAA has approved, the Company’s operations specifications and a maintenance program for the Company’s aircraft, ranging from frequent routine inspections
to major overhauls. The FAA, acting through its own powers or through the appropriate U.S. Attorney, also has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition and collection of fines for violation of the Federal Aviation Regulations.

The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to occupational safety and
health, including Occupational Safety and Health Administration and Food and Drug Administration regulations.

Security
Regulation

Pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the “Aviation Security Act”), the
Transportation Security Administration (the “TSA”), a division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security is responsible for certain civil aviation security matters. The Aviation Security Act addresses procedures for, among other
things, flight deck security, the use of federal air marshals onboard flights, airport perimeter access security, airline crew security training, security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees, and vendors, training and
qualifications of security screening personnel, provision of passenger data to U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and background checks. Under the Aviation Security Act, substantially all security screeners at airports are federal employees,
and significant other elements of airline and airport security are overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal air marshals.

TSA-mandated security procedures can have a negative effect on the Customer experience and the Company’s operations. For example, in
2006, the TSA implemented security measures regulating the types of liquid items that can be carried onboard aircraft. In 2009, the TSA introduced its Secure Flight Initiative. As part of that initiative, the Company has begun collecting additional
Customer data. The Secure Flight Initiative was created to help reduce the number of passengers who are misidentified as possible terrorists because their names are similar to those of people on security watch lists. The program standardized how
names are matched, as well as added age and gender to a passenger’s profile. Under the program, the Company is required to ask for







Customer names exactly as they appear on a government-issued photo ID such as a passport or driver’s license. In addition, the Company must ask Customers for their gender and date of birth.
The TSA has also indicated its intent to expand its use of whole body imaging machines around the United States.

Enhanced
security measures have also impacted the Company’s business through the imposition of security fees on the Company’s Customers and on the Company. Under the Aviation Security Act, funding for passenger security is provided in part by a
$2.50 per enplanement security fee, subject to a maximum of $5.00 per one-way trip. The Aviation Security Act also allows the TSA to assess an Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee (“ASIF”) on each airline. The Company’s ASIF liability
was originally set at $26 million per year. Effective for calendar year 2005, the TSA unilaterally increased the amount by an additional $24 million to a total of $50 million annually. The Company and 22 other airlines joined in litigation
against the TSA to challenge the agency’s increase to their respective ASIF fees. In February 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the increased fees were excessive and remanded the matter to the TSA
to determine the amount of the excess. The Company continues to pay the full amount of the fees pending this determination, as the TSA rejected the airlines’ request for an interim reduction.

The Company has made significant investments to address the effect of security regulations, including investments in facilities, equipment,
and technology to process Customers efficiently and restore the airport experience; however, the Company is not able to predict the ongoing impact, if any, that various security measures will have on Passenger revenues and the Company’s costs,
both in the short-term and the long-term.

Environmental Regulation

The Company is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including the
discharge or disposal of materials such as chemicals, hazardous waste, and aircraft deicing fluid. Additionally, in conjunction with airport authorities, other airlines, and state and local environmental regulatory agencies, the Company, as a normal
course of business, undertakes voluntary investigation or remediation of soil or groundwater contamination at several airport sites. The Company does not believe that any environmental liability associated with these airport sites will have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s operations, costs, or profitability, nor has it experienced any such liability in the past that has had a material adverse effect on its operations, costs, or profitability. Further regulatory
developments pertaining to such things as control of engine exhaust emissions from ground support equipment and prevention of leaks from underground aircraft fueling systems could increase operating costs in the airline industry. The Company does
not believe, however, that pending environmental regulatory developments in these areas will have a material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures or otherwise materially adversely affect its operations, operating costs, or competitive
position.

The federal government, as well as several state and local governments, are considering legislative and regulatory
proposals to address climate change by reducing “green house gas emissions.” At the federal level, Congress is considering legislation that would create an economy-wide “cap-and-trade” system that would establish a limit (or cap)
on overall greenhouse gas emissions and create a market for the purchase and sale of emissions permits or “allowances.” Under the leading cap-and-trade proposals before Congress, the airline industry likely would be affected due to
anticipated increases in fuel costs as fuel providers pass on the cost of the emissions allowances, which they would be required to obtain, to cover the emissions from fuel production and the eventual use of fuel by the airlines and other fuel
consumers. In addition, future environmental regulatory developments related to climate change are possible, which could significantly increase operating costs in the airline industry and, as a result, adversely affect operations.

The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 gives airport operators the right, under certain circumstances, to implement local noise
abatement programs, so long as they do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Some airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft
types to be used, and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of operations. These types of restrictions can cause curtailments in service or increases in operating costs and could limit the ability of the Company to expand
its operations at the affected airports.







The Company’s “Green Team” targets areas of environmental improvement in all
aspects of the Company’s business, while at the same time remaining true to the Company’s low cost philosophy. As part of its commitment to Environmental Stewardship, the Company has published an Environmental Report describing the
Company’s strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and addressing other environmental matters such as waste management and recycling. During 2009, the Company unveiled its new “Green Plane,” which will serve as a test environment
for new environmentally responsible materials and Customer comfort products and is intended to save fuel and related emissions (through weight savings), along with adding recyclable elements to the cabin interior and reducing waste. As discussed
above, the Company has also committed significant resources towards implementation of RNP procedures, which are designed to conserve fuel and reduce carbon emissions.

Insurance

The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline
industry and at amounts deemed adequate to protect the Company and its property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain of the Company’s credit and lease agreements. The policies principally provide coverage for public and
passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or damage to aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers’ compensation.

Through the 2003 Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act (the “Wartime Act”), the federal government has provided renewable, supplemental, first-party, war-risk insurance coverage to
commercial carriers at substantially lower premiums than prevailing commercial rates and for levels of coverage not available in the commercial market. The government-provided supplemental coverage from the Wartime Act is currently set to expire on
August 31, 2010. Although another extension beyond this date is expected, if such coverage is not extended by the government, the Company could incur substantially higher insurance costs or unavailability of adequate coverage in future periods.

Competition

Competition within the airline industry is highly competitive and unpredictable, and the Company currently competes with other airlines on a majority of its routes. Key competitive factors within the domestic airline industry include
pricing, routes and scheduling, and Customer Service.

Pricing in the airline industry can be impacted by a variety of
factors. For example, as has been the case in recent periods, carriers use discount fares to stimulate traffic in an effort to improve load factors and cash flow. Carriers also discount fares to drive traffic in new markets. More generally, in
recent years, the industry has experienced increased price competition due to (i) the increased presence of carriers with low cost structures similar to the Company’s and (ii) the impact of carriers who have successfully reorganized
within and outside of bankruptcy and have therefore been able to lower their operating costs. These types of factors reduce the pricing power of the airline industry as a whole, and the increased availability of fare information on the Internet
allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. The Company’s low cost operating structure is designed to enable it to charge competitive fares.

The Company also competes based on markets served and flight schedules. Many major U.S. airlines have more extensive route structures
and marketing and codesharing alliances that facilitate their expansion to new destinations; however, the Company’s point-to-point route structure enables it to offer a high percentage of non-stop flights.

The Company also competes with other airlines in areas of Customer Service such as ontime performance, passenger amenities, equipment type,
and comfort. According to the most current statistics published by the DOT, the Company consistently ranks at the top for Customer Satisfaction for having the lowest Customer complaint ratio.







The airline industry as a whole is also subject to varying degrees of competition from
surface transportation, and the Company may have more exposure to this form of competition than airlines that fly longer average stage lengths. Surface competition can be more significant during economic downturns when consumers cut back on
discretionary spending. Delays or inconveniences associated with air travel security measures may also increase surface competition. To a certain extent, the airline industry also competes with alternatives to travel such as videoconferencing and
the Internet.

Seasonality

The Company’s business is somewhat seasonal. Quarterly operating income and, to a lesser extent, revenues have historically tended to be lower in the first quarter (January 1 —
March 31) and, although not the case for 2009, fourth quarter (October 1 — December 31).

Employees

At December 31, 2009, the Company had 34,726 active fulltime equivalent Employees, consisting of 15,345 flight, 2,488 maintenance,
11,943 ground, Customer, and fleet service, and 4,950 management, accounting, marketing, and clerical personnel.









Employee GroupRepresentativesStatus of AgreementPilotsSouthwest Airlines Pilots’ Association (“SWAPA”)Amendable August 2011Flight AttendantsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO (“TWU 556”)Amendable May 2012Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, Freight AgentsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 555 (“TWU 555”)Amendable June 2011Customer Service Agents, Customer RepresentativesInternational Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO (“IAM”)Amendable October 2012Stock ClerksInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 19 (“IBT Local 19”)Tentative AgreementMechanicsAircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (“AMFA”)Amendable August 2012Aircraft Appearance TechniciansAMFACurrently in negotiationsDispatchersTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 550 (“TWU 550”)Currently in negotiationsFlight Simulator TechniciansInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters (“IBT”)Amendable October 2011Flight Crew Training InstructorsTransportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 557 (“TWU 557”)Amendable December 2012

Additional Information About the Company

The Company was incorporated in Texas in 1967. The following documents are available free of charge through the Company’s website,
www.southwest.com: the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”) pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These materials are made available through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.







DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the
Company’s forward-looking statements, which represent the Company’s views only as of the date this report is filed. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new
information, future events, or otherwise.



