
10-K
a2040410z10-k.txt
10-K





                                  UNITED STATES

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000   Commission File Number 001-2979

                              WELLS FARGO & COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                 Delaware                              No. 41-0449260
         (State of incorporation)                     (I.R.S. Employer
                                                     Identification No.)

             420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California 94163
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 1-800-411-4932

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:


          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.                   Yes x  No
                                                                --    --

          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

          As of February 28, 2001, 1,715,970,357 shares of common stock were
outstanding having an aggregate market value, based on a closing price of
$49.64 per share, of $85,181 million. At that date, the aggregate market
value of common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $83,297
million.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders - Incorporated into Parts I,
II and IV. Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders - Incorporated into Part III.




                         FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX




(1)      The 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders, portions of which are
         incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.
(2)      The information required to be submitted in response to these items is
         incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive Proxy Statement
         for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
         April 24, 2001, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
         pursuant to Regulation 14A.
(3)      Not applicable.





DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

GENERAL

Wells Fargo & Company (Parent) is a diversified financial services company
organized under the laws of Delaware and registered under the Bank Holding
Company Act (BHC Act) of 1956, as amended, and registered as a financial holding
company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Based on assets as of December 31,
2000, it was the fourth largest bank holding company in the United States. As a
diversified financial services organization, Wells Fargo & Company owns
subsidiaries engaged in banking and a variety of related businesses.
Subsidiaries of the Parent provide retail, commercial and corporate banking
services through banks located in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho,
Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New
Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, Washington,
Wisconsin and Wyoming. Additional financial services are provided to customers
by subsidiaries engaged in various businesses, principally: wholesale banking,
mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural finance,
commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance
agency services, computer and data processing services, trust services,
mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment. Wells Fargo
& Company together with its subsidiaries is referred to in this report as the
Company.

On October 25, 2000, the merger involving the Company and First Security
Corporation (the FSCO Merger) was completed, with First Security Corporation
(First Security or FSCO) surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
On November 2, 1998, the merger involving Norwest Corporation and the former
Wells Fargo & Company (the WFC Merger) was completed. On completion of the WFC
Merger, Norwest Corporation changed its name to Wells Fargo & Company. The FSCO
Merger and the WFC Merger were accounted for under the pooling-of-interests
method of accounting and, accordingly, the information included in this report,
including the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
presents the combined results as if both mergers had been in effect for all
periods presented.

The Company has four operating segments for the purpose of management reporting:
Community Banking, Wholesale Banking, Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (formerly
Norwest Mortgage) and Wells Fargo Financial (formerly Norwest Financial).
Financial information and narrative descriptions of these operating segments are
included in the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders, incorporated by reference
herein.

HISTORY AND GROWTH

Norwest Corporation, prior to the WFC Merger, provided banking services to
customers in 16 states and additional financial services through subsidiaries
engaged in a variety of businesses including mortgage banking and consumer
finance.



The former Wells Fargo & Company's principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A., was the successor to the banking portion of the business founded by
Henry Wells and William G. Fargo in 1852. That business later operated the
westernmost leg of the Pony Express and ran stagecoach lines in the western
part of the United States. The California banking business was separated from
the express business in 1905, was merged in 1960 with American Trust Company,
another of the oldest banks in the Western United States, and became Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A., a national banking association, in 1968.

The former Wells Fargo & Company acquired First Interstate Bancorp in April
1996. First Interstate's assets had an approximate book value of $55 billion.
The transaction was valued at approximately $11.3 billion and was accounted for
as a purchase.

The Company expands its business, in part, by acquiring banking institutions and
other companies engaged in activities that are financial in nature. The Company
continues to explore opportunities to acquire banking institutions and other
companies. Discussions are continually being carried on related to such
acquisitions. It is not presently known whether, or on what terms, such
discussions will result in further acquisitions. Generally it is the policy of
the Company not to comment on such discussions or possible acquisitions until a
definitive acquisition agreement has been signed.

COMPETITION

The financial services industry is highly competitive. The Company's
subsidiaries compete with financial services providers, such as banks, savings
and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mortgage banking
companies, insurance companies, and money market and mutual fund companies. They
also face increased competition from non-banking institutions such as brokerage
houses and insurance companies, as well as from financial services subsidiaries
of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy the
benefits of fewer regulatory constraints and lower cost structures.

Effective March 13, 2000, securities firms and insurance companies that elect to
become financial holding companies may acquire banks and other financial
institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which
the Company conducts business. The financial services industry is also likely to
become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies
to provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the
importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the
transfer of funds between parties.

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

The following discussion, together with Notes 3 and 22 to Financial Statements
included in the 2000 Annual Report to Stockholders, incorporated by reference
herein, sets forth the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable
to bank holding companies and their subsidiaries and provides certain specific
information relevant to the Company. This regulatory framework is to protect
depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking




system as a whole, and not to protect security holders. To the extent that
the information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is
qualified in its entirety by reference to those provisions. Further, such
statutes, regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress
and state legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies. A change
in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company,
including changes in interpretation or implementation thereof, could have a
material effect on the Company's business.

Applicable laws and regulations could restrict the Company's ability to
diversify into other areas of financial services, acquire depository
institutions, and pay dividends on the Company's capital stock. They could also
require the Company to provide financial support to one or more of its
subsidiary banks, maintain capital balances in excess of those desired by
management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a result of the
deterioration in the financial condition of depository institutions in general.

GENERAL

PARENT BANK HOLDING COMPANY. As a bank holding company, the Company is subject
to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision
by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board
or FRB).

SUBSIDIARY BANKS. The Company's national subsidiary banks are subject to
regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (OCC) and secondarily by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) and the FRB. The Company's state-chartered banks are subject to primary
federal regulation and examination by the FDIC or the FRB and, in addition, are
regulated and examined by their respective state banking departments.

NONBANK SUBSIDIARIES. Many of the Company's nonbank subsidiaries are also
subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state
agencies. The Company's brokerage subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and state securities
regulators. The Company's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
applicable state insurance regulatory agencies. Other nonbank subsidiaries of
the Company are subject to the laws and regulations of both the federal
government and the various states in which they conduct business.

PARENT BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACTIVITIES

"FINANCIAL IN NATURE" REQUIREMENT. As a bank holding company that has elected to
become a financial holding company pursuant to the BHC Act, the Company may
affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other
activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to
activities that are financial in nature. "Financial in nature" activities
include securities underwriting, dealing and market making, sponsoring mutual
funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting and agency, merchant
banking, and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the
Treasury, determines from



time to time to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial
activity or is complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a
safety and soundness risk. A bank holding company that is not also a
financial holding company is limited to engaging in banking and such other
activities as determined by the FRB to be so closely related to banking or
managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto.

No Federal Reserve Board approval is required for the Company to acquire a
company (other than a bank holding company, bank or savings association) engaged
in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are
financial in nature, as determined by the FRB. Prior FRB approval is required
before the Company may acquire the beneficial ownership or control of more than
5% of the voting shares or substantially all of the assets of a bank holding
company, bank or savings association.

If any subsidiary bank of the Company ceases to be "well capitalized" or "well
managed" under applicable regulatory standards, the FRB may, among other
actions, order the Company to divest the subsidiary bank. Alternatively, the
Company may elect to conform its activities to those permissible for a bank
holding company that is not also a financial holding company.

If any subsidiary bank of the Company receives a rating under the Community
Reinvestment Act of 1977 of less than satisfactory, the Company will be
prohibited, until the rating is raised to satisfactory or better, from engaging
in new activities or acquiring companies other than bank holding companies,
banks or savings associations.

The Company became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000. It
continues to maintain its status as a bank holding company for purposes of other
FRB regulations.

INTERSTATE BANKING. Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act
(Riegle-Neal Act), a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than
its home state, subject to any state requirement that the bank has been
organized and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years,
and the requirement that the bank holding company not control, prior to or
following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of
deposits of insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the
acquisition is the bank holding company's initial entry into the state, more
than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or greater amount set by
the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby
creating interstate branches. States were permitted for a period of time to opt
out of the interstate merger authority provided by the Riegle-Neal Act and, by
doing so, prohibit interstate mergers in the state. The Company will be unable
to consolidate its banking operations in one state with those of another state
if either state in question has opted out of the Riegle-Neal Act. The state of
Montana has opted out until September 2001. Banks are also permitted to acquire
and to establish DE NOVO branches in other states where authorized under the
laws of those states.

REGULATORY APPROVAL. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank
acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the
effect of the acquisition on competition,



the public benefits expected to be received from the acquisition, the
projected capital ratios and levels on a post-acquisition basis, and the
acquiring institution's record of addressing the credit needs of the
communities it serves, including the needs of low and moderate income
neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank,
under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended.

DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

Wells Fargo & Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its
subsidiary banks and other subsidiaries. Its principal source of funds to pay
dividends on its common and preferred stock and principal and interest on its
debt is dividends from its subsidiaries. Various federal and state statutory
provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Company's
subsidiary banks and certain other subsidiaries of the Company may pay without
regulatory approval. For information about the restrictions applicable to the
Company's subsidiary banks, see Note 3 to Financial Statements, incorporated by
reference herein.

Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the Company's
subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in conducting
their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the financial condition
of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The
ability of the Company's subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is
currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and
capital guidelines.

HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE

TRANSFER OF FUNDS FROM SUBSIDIARY BANKS. The Company's subsidiary banks are
subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or
other items of value from such subsidiaries to the Parent and its nonbank
subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called "covered transactions." In
general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as other transactions involving the
transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of
an affiliate. Unless an exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary
bank with a single affiliate are limited to 10% of the subsidiary bank's capital
and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with affiliates in the
aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank's capital and surplus. Also, loans and
extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured in
specified amounts. A bank's transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also
generally required to be on arm's length terms.

SOURCE OF STRENGTH. The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected
to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its
subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit resources to
support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when
the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support.



The OCC may order the assessment of the Company if the capital of one of its
national bank subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Company failed to pay
the assessment within three months, the OCC could order the sale of the
Company's stock in the national bank to cover the deficiency.

Capital loans by the Company to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate
in right of payment to deposits and certain other indebtedness of the
subsidiary bank. In addition, in the event of the Company's bankruptcy, any
commitment by the Company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the
capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and
entitled to a priority of payment.

DEPOSITOR PREFERENCE. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) provides that,
in the event of the "liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository
institution, the claims of depositors of the institution (including the claims
of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for
administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over other
general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository
institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will
have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the
Company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured
depository institution.

LIABILITY OF COMMONLY CONTROLLED INSTITUTIONS. All of the Company's banks are
insured by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for
any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the
default of an FDIC-insured depository institution controlled by the same bank
holding company, and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to an FDIC-insured
depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled by
the same bank holding company. "Default" means generally the appointment of a
conservator or receiver. "In danger of default" means generally the existence of
certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence
of regulatory assistance.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

The Company is subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines imposed
by the FRB, which are substantially similar to the capital requirements and
guidelines imposed by the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions
under their jurisdictions. For information about these capital requirements and
guidelines, see Note 22 to Financial Statements, incorporated by reference
herein.

The FRB may set higher capital requirements for holding companies whose
circumstances warrant it. For example, holding companies experiencing internal
growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions
substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance
on intangible assets. Also, the FRB considers a "tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio"
(deducting all intangibles) and other indications of capital strength in
evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.



FRB, FDIC and OCC rules require the Company to incorporate market and interest
rate risk components into their risk-based capital standards. Under the market
risk requirements, capital is allocated to support the amount of market risk
related to a financial institution's ongoing trading activities.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of
depository institutions, the FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory
agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards for
institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The standards
relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate
exposure and executive compensation. The agencies are authorized to take
action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take "prompt corrective
action" with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet
minimum capital requirements. A depository institution's treatment for purposes
of the prompt corrective action provisions will depend upon how its capital
levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors, as
established by regulation.

DEPOSIT INSURANCE ASSESSMENTS

Through the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF), the FDIC insures the deposits of the
Company's depository institution subsidiaries up to prescribed limits for each
depositor. The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each BIF member institution is
based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory capital ratios
and other factors. Specifically, the assessment rate is based on the
institution's capitalization risk category and supervisory subgroup category. An
institution's capitalization risk category is based on the FDIC's determination
of whether the institution is well capitalized, adequately capitalized or less
than adequately capitalized. An institution's supervisory subgroup category is
based on the FDIC's assessment of the financial condition of the institution and
the probability that FDIC intervention or other corrective action will be
required.

The BIF assessment rate currently ranges from zero to 27 cents per $100 of
domestic deposits. The BIF assessment rate for the Company's depository
institutions currently is zero. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment
rate schedule on a semiannual basis. An increase in the BIF assessment rate
could have a material adverse effect on the Company's earnings, depending on the
amount of the increase. The FDIC is authorized to terminate a depository
institution's deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the
institution's financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution
has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule,
regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution's
regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for one or more of the
Company's subsidiary depository institutions could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's earnings, depending on the collective size of the
particular institutions involved.

All FDIC-insured depository institutions must pay an annual assessment to
provide funds for the payment of interest on bonds issued by the Financing
Corporation, a federal corporation



chartered under the authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds
(commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were issued to capitalize the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured depository institutions
paid approximately 2.1 cents per $100 of BIF-assessable deposits in 2000. The
FDIC established the FICO assessment rate effective for the first quarter of
2001 at approximately 2.0 cents annually per $100 of BIF-assessable deposits.

FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICIES

The Company's business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and
monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Company is
particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of
money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy
available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States
government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of
depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against
depository institutions' deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve
requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These
methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the
availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged
on loans and paid on deposits. The policies of the FRB may have a material
effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.

PRIVACY PROVISIONS OF THE GRAMM-LEACH-BLILEY ACT

Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the
GLB Act), have adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial
institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated
third parties. The rules became effective November 13, 2000, but compliance
before July 1, 2001 is optional. The rules require disclosure of privacy
policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent
disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The
privacy provisions of the GLB Act will affect how consumer information is
transmitted through diversified financial services companies and conveyed to
outside vendors. It is not possible at this time to assess fully the impact of
the privacy provisions on the Company's business, results of operations or
financial condition.

FUTURE LEGISLATION

Various legislation, including proposals to change substantially the financial
institution regulatory system, is from time to time introduced in Congress. This
legislation may change banking statutes and the operating environment of the
Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, this legislation
could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand
permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings
associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. The Company
cannot predict whether any of this potential legislation will be enacted and, if
enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the
Company's business, results of operations or financial condition.




ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME

The following table allocates the changes in net interest income on a
taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or average
rates for both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.
Because of the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during any
period, it is not possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume
and rate. For this table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or
rate are allocated to these categories in proportion to the percentage
changes in average volume and average rate.






LOAN PORTFOLIO

The following table presents the remaining contractual principal maturities of
selected loan categories at December 31, 2000 and a summary of the major
categories of loans outstanding at the end of the last five years. At December
31, 2000, the Company did not have loan concentrations that exceeded 10% of
total loans, except as shown below.



The table at the top of the following page summarizes other real estate
mortgage loans by state and property type. The table at the bottom of the
following page summarizes real estate construction loans by state and project
type.




REAL ESTATE MORTGAGE LOANS BY STATE AND PROPERTY TYPE
(excluding 1-4 family first mortgages)




(1)  Represents loans to real estate developers secured by 1-4 family
     residential developments.

(2)  Consists of 46 states; no state had loans in excess of $976 million at
     December 31, 2000.







REAL ESTATE CONSTRUCTION LOANS BY STATE AND PROPERTY TYPE



(1)  Consists of 41 states; no state had loans in excess of $517 million at
     December 31, 2000.







CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES






The SEC requires the Company to present the ratio of the allowance for loan
losses to total nonaccrual loans. This ratio was 311% and 462% at December 31,
2000 and 1999, respectively. This ratio may fluctuate significantly from period
to period due to such factors as the mix of loan types in the portfolio, the
prospects of borrowers and the value and marketability of collateral as well as,
for the nonaccrual portfolio taken as a whole, wide variances from period to
period in terms of delinquency and relationship of book to contractual principal
balance. Classification of a loan as nonaccrual does not necessarily indicate
that the principal of a loan is uncollectible in whole or in part. Consequently,
the ratio of the allowance for loan losses to nonaccrual loans, taken alone and
without taking into account numerous additional factors, is not a reliable
indicator of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Indicators of the
credit quality of the Company's loan portfolio and the method of determining the
allowance for loan losses are discussed below and in greater detail in the 2000
Annual Report to Stockholders, incorporated by reference herein.

ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

The table below provides a breakdown of the allowance for loan losses by loan
category.




(1) This amount and any unabsorbed portion of the allocated allowance are also
    available for any of the above listed loan categories.




See Note 5 to Financial Statements in the 2000 Annual Report, incorporated by
reference herein, for the description of the process used by the Company to
determine the adequacy and the components (allocated and unallocated) of the
allowance for loan losses.

At December 31, 2000, the allowance for loan losses was $3,719 million, or 2.31%
of total loans, compared with $3,344 million, or 2.51%, at December 31, 1999.
During 2000, net provision for loan losses exceeded the charge-offs by $110
million. The addition of $265 million of allowances related to business
combinations in 2000 accounted for the majority of the increase of $375 million
in the reserve, year over year. The components of the allowance, allocated and
unallocated, are shown in the table on the previous page. The allocated
component increased to $2,254 million from $1,907 million, while the unallocated
component grew to $1,465 million from $1,437 million, as of December 31, 2000
and 1999, respectively. At December 31, 2000, the unallocated portion of the
allowance amounted to 39% of the total allowance, compared with 43% at December
31, 1999.

The $347 million increase in the allocated component of the allowance was
entirely due to growth in the loan portfolio. Analyzing the movements in the
allocated reserve strictly from a loan volume perspective indicates that, had
the ratio of allocated reserves to loans outstanding remained flat with the 1999
ratio of 1.43%, allocated reserves would have increased by approximately $395
million, as loans outstanding grew by $28 billion during the year. However, due
to a shift in portfolio composition, the higher volume increased the allocated
reserve by only $366 million, as relatively higher-risk foreign loans grew at a
slower pace than other, lower-risk portfolio segments.

Lower allocated allowance to loans outstanding ratios in the residential
mortgage and other real estate mortgage portfolios were substantially offset by
higher allocated allowance to loans outstanding ratios in the other consumer and
foreign loan portfolios. On a net basis, marginally lower allocated reserve
ratios resulted in a reduction of roughly $19 million in allocated reserves,
primarily a reflection of modestly lower projected loss rates in the loan
portfolio.

There were no material changes in estimation methods and assumptions for the
allowance that took place during 2000.

The Company considers the allowance for loan losses of $3,719 million adequate
to cover losses inherent in loans, loan commitments, and standby and other
letters of credit at December 31, 2000.

The foregoing discussion contains forward-looking statements about the adequacy
of the Company's reserves for loan losses. These forward-looking statements are
inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. A number of factors--many of
which are beyond the Company's control--could cause actual losses to be more
than estimated losses. For a discussion of some of the other factors that could
cause actual losses to be more than estimated losses, see "Factors That May
Affect Future Results" in the "Financial Review" section of the 2000 Annual
Report to Stockholders, incorporated by reference herein.




PROPERTIES

The Company owns its headquarters building in San Francisco as well as Wells
Fargo Centers in Phoenix, Arizona and Portland, Oregon. In addition, the Company
leases office space for data processing support and various administrative
departments in major locations in Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado,
Minnesota, Oregon, Texas, and Utah.

As of December 31, 2000, the Company provides banking, mortgage and consumer
finance through about 5,400 stores under various types of ownership and
leasehold agreements. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (WFHM) owns its headquarters in
Des Moines, Iowa and servicing centers located in Minneapolis, Minnesota;
Springfield, Ohio; and Riverside, California. In addition, WFHM leases servicing
centers in Minneapolis, Minnesota; Phoenix, Arizona; Charlotte, North Carolina;
and Springfield, Illinois, operations centers in Frederick, Maryland and St.
Louis, Missouri and all mortgage production offices nationwide. Wells Fargo
Financial owns its headquarters in Des Moines, Iowa, and leases all branch
locations.

The Company is also a joint venture partner in two office buildings in downtown
Los Angeles, California.

For further information with respect to premises and equipment and commitments
under noncancelable leases for premises and equipment, refer to Note 6 to
Financial Statements, incorporated by reference herein.




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


















There is no family relationship among the above officers. All executive officers
serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.




EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)   Financial Statements, Schedules and Exhibits:

      (1)    The consolidated financial statements and related notes, the
             independent auditors' report thereon and supplementary data that
             appear on pages 52 through 98 of the 2000 Annual Report to
             Stockholders are incorporated herein by reference.

      (2)    Financial Statement Schedules:

             All schedules are omitted, because they are either not applicable
             or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
             statements or the notes thereto.

      (3)    Exhibits:

             The Company's SEC file number is 001-2979. On and before November
             2, 1998, the Company filed documents with the SEC under the name
             Norwest Corporation. The former Wells Fargo & Company filed
             documents under SEC file number 001-6214. First Security
             Corporation filed documents under SEC file number 001-6906.


- ------------------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

Stockholders may obtain a copy of any of the foregoing exhibits, upon payment of
a reasonable fee, by writing Wells Fargo & Company, Office of the Secretary,
Wells Fargo Center, N9305-173, Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota
55479.





STATUS OF PRIOR DOCUMENTS

The Wells Fargo & Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2000, at the time of filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
shall modify and supersede all documents filed prior to January 1, 2001 pursuant
to Sections 13, 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (other than
the Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 14, 1997, containing a description
of the Company's common stock) for purposes of any offers or sales of any
securities after the date of such filing pursuant to any Registration Statement
or Prospectus filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 which incorporates by
reference such Annual Report on Form 10-K.




                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 16, 2001.

                              WELLS FARGO & COMPANY

                              BY: /s/ RICHARD M. KOVACEVICH
                                  -------------------------------------
                                  Richard M. Kovacevich
                                  President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated.

                              By: /s/ ROSS J. KARI
                                  -------------------------------------
                                  Ross J. Kari
                                  Executive Vice President and
                                  Chief Financial Officer
                                  (Principal Financial Officer)

                              By: /s/ LES L. QUOCK
                                  -------------------------------------
                                  Les L. Quock
                                  Senior Vice President and Controller
                                  (Principal Accounting Officer)

The Directors of Wells Fargo & Company listed below have duly executed powers of
attorney empowering Philip J. Quigley to sign this document on their behalf.


                              By: /s/ PHILIP J. QUIGLEY
                                  -------------------------------------
                                  Philip J. Quigley
                                  Director and Attorney-in-fact
                                  March 16, 2001






