
10-K405
FORM 10-K 405



                                    UNITED STATES
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                               WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                -------------------

                                     FORM 10-K

                  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                        the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the year ended December 31, 1998            Commission File Number 001-2979

                            ---------------------------

                               WELLS FARGO & COMPANY
               (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

          Delaware                                   No. 41-0449260
     (State of incorporation)                       (I.R.S. Employer
                                                   Identification No.)

              420 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, California  94163
                (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  1-800-411-4932

                  Former name of registrant:  Norwest Corporation

            SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                             Name of Each Exchange
          Title of Each Class                 on Which Registered
          -------------------                ----------------------

Common Stock, par value $1-2/3               New York Stock Exchange
                                             Chicago Stock Exchange
Preferred Share Purchase Rights              New York Stock Exchange
                                             Chicago Stock Exchange
6 3/4% Convertible Subordinated
Debentures Due 2003                          New York Stock Exchange

Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred
Stock, Series B                              New York Stock Exchange

     No securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act.

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.                    Yes   X    No
                                                          -----     -----

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will be not 
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

     As of February 26, 1999 (the latest practicable date), 1,653,100,884 shares
of common stock were outstanding having an aggregate market value, based on a
closing price of $36.75 per share, of $60,751 million.  At that date, the
aggregate market value of common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately
$58,262 million.

                        DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders - Incorporated into Parts I,
  II and IV.
Portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders -
  Incorporated into Part III.



                                             FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX




(1)  The 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, portions of which are incorporated
     by reference into this Form 10-K.
(2)  None.
(3)  The information required to be submitted in response to this item is
     incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for
     the 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 27, 1999, to
     be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation
     14(a).



DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

GENERAL

          Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company 
organized under the laws of Delaware and registered under the Bank Holding 
Company Act (BHC Act) of 1956, as amended. Based on assets as of December 31, 
1998, it was the seventh largest bank holding company in the United States.  
As a diversified financial services organization, Wells Fargo & Company 
(Parent) owns subsidiaries engaged in banking and a variety of related 
businesses. Subsidiaries of the Parent provide retail, commercial and 
corporate banking services through banks located in Arizona, California, 
Colorado, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, 
Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Ohio, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, 
Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming.  Additional financial services are 
provided to customers by subsidiaries engaged in various businesses; 
principally wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment 
leasing, agricultural finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and 
investment banking, insurance agency services, computer and data processing 
services, trust services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture 
capital investment. Wells Fargo & Company together with its subsidiaries is 
referred to in this report as the Company. Its significant subsidiaries are 
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. and its consolidated subsidiaries and WFC 
Holdings Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, including its 
principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.

          On November 2, 1998, Norwest Corporation changed its name to "Wells
Fargo & Company" upon the merger (the Merger) of the former Wells Fargo &
Company (the former Wells Fargo) into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Norwest
Corporation.  Norwest Corporation as it was before the Merger is referred to as
the former Norwest.  The Merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests and,
accordingly, the information included in this Form 10-K presents the combined
results as if the Merger had been in effect for all periods presented.

          The Parent provides to its subsidiaries various services, including 
strategic planning, asset and liability management, investment administration 
and portfolio planning, tax planning, new product and business development, 
advertising, administration and internal auditing, employee benefits and 
payroll management.  In addition, the Parent provides funds to its 
subsidiaries.  The Parent derives substantially all its income from 
investments in and advances to its subsidiaries and service fees received 
from its subsidiaries.

          The Company has four operating segments for the purpose of management
reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking, Mortgage Banking and Norwest
Financial. Financial information and narrative descriptions of these operating
segments are included in the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.




HISTORY AND GROWTH

          The former Norwest provided banking services to customers in 16 states
and additional financial services through subsidiaries engaged in a variety of
businesses including mortgage banking and consumer finance.

          The former Wells Fargo's principal subsidiary, Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., continues to be a significant subsidiary of the new Company.  The bank 
was the successor to the banking portion of the business founded by Henry 
Wells and William G. Fargo in 1852.  That business later operated the 
westernmost leg of the Pony Express and ran stagecoach lines in the western 
part of the United States.  The California banking business was separated 
from the express business in 1905, and was merged in 1960 with American Trust 
Company, another of the oldest banks in the Western United States, and became 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., a national banking association, in 1968.

          The former Wells Fargo acquired First Interstate Bancorp (First
Interstate) in April 1996. First Interstate's assets had an approximate book
value of $55 billion.  The transaction was valued at approximately $11.3 billion
and was accounted for as a purchase.

          The Company expands its business, in part, by acquiring banking
institutions and other companies engaged in activities closely related to
banking.  The Company continues to explore opportunities to acquire banking
institutions and other companies permitted by the Bank Holding Company Act.
Discussions are continually being carried on related to such acquisitions. It is
not presently known whether, or on what terms, such discussions will result in
further acquisitions.  It is the policy of the Company not to comment on such
discussions or possible acquisitions until a definitive agreement with respect
thereto has been signed.

COMPETITION

          Legislative and regulatory changes coupled with technological advances
have significantly increased competition in the financial services industry.
The Company's banking and financial services subsidiaries compete with other
financial services providers, such as commercial banks and financial
institutions, including savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance
companies, mortgage banking companies and mutual funds.  In addition, the
Company's subsidiaries compete with nonbank institutions such as brokerage
houses and insurance companies, as well as financial services subsidiaries of
commercial and manufacturing companies.  Many of these competitors are not
subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies.

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

          The following discussion, together with Notes 3 and 22 to Financial
Statements, incorporated by reference herein, sets forth the material elements
of the regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries and provides certain specific information relevant to the Company.
This regulatory framework is intended primarily for the




protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system
as a whole, and not for the protection of security holders.  To the extent that
the information describes statutory and regulatory provisions, it is qualified
in its entirety by reference to those provisions.  Further, such statutes,
regulations and policies are continually under review by Congress and state
legislatures, and federal and state regulatory agencies.  A change in statutes,
regulations or regulatory policies applicable to the Company or its subsidiaries
could have a material effect on the business of the Company.

          This regulatory environment, among other things, may restrict the
Company's ability to diversify into certain areas of financial services, acquire
depository institutions in certain states, and pay dividends on the Company's
capital stock.  It may also require the Company to provide financial support to
one or more of its banking subsidiaries, maintain capital balances in excess of
those desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance premiums as a
result of the deterioration in the financial condition of depository
institutions in general.

GENERAL

          PARENT BANK HOLDING COMPANY.  As a bank holding company, the 
Company is subject to regulation under the BHC Act and to inspection, 
examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board (FRB).

          SUBSIDIARY BANKS.  The Company's national subsidiary banks are subject
to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (OCC) and secondarily by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) and the FRB.  The Company's state-chartered banks are subject to primary
federal regulation and examination by the FDIC or the FRB and, in addition, are
regulated and examined by their respective state banking departments.

          NONBANKING SUBSIDIARIES.  Many of the Company's nonbank subsidiaries
are also subject to regulation by the FRB and other applicable federal and state
agencies. The Company's brokerage subsidiaries are regulated by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC), the National Association of Securities Dealers,
Inc. and state securities regulators.  The Company's insurance subsidiaries are
subject to regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies.  Other
nonbanking subsidiaries of the Company are subject to the laws and regulations
of both the federal government and the various states in which they conduct
business.

PARENT BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACTIVITIES

          BANKING-RELATED REQUIREMENT.  Under the BHC Act, bank holding 
companies generally may not acquire the beneficial ownership or control of 
more than 5% of the voting shares or substantially all the assets of any 
company, including a bank, without the FRB's prior approval.  Also, bank 
holding companies generally may engage,




directly or indirectly, only in banking and such other activities as are
determined by the FRB to be closely related to banking.

          INTERSTATE BANKING.  Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and
Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act), which became effective on September 29, 1995, a
bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state,
subject to any state requirement that the bank has been organized and operating
for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that
the bank holding company not control, prior to or following the proposed
acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of insured depository
institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company's
initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or
such lesser or greater amount set by the state).

          The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines
beginning June 1, 1997, thereby creating interstate branches.  States may opt
out of the Riegle-Neal Act and thereby prohibit interstate mergers in the state.
The Company will be unable to consolidate its banking operations in one state
with those of another state if either state in question has opted out of the
Riegle-Neal Act.  The state of Montana has opted out until at least the year
2001.

          REGULATORY APPROVAL.  In determining whether to approve a proposed
bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors,
the effect of the acquisition on competition, the public benefits expected to be
received from the acquisition, the projected capital ratios and levels on a
post-acquisition basis, and the acquiring institution's record of addressing the
credit needs of the communities it serves, including the needs of low and
moderate income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of
the bank, under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended.

DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

          Wells Fargo & Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from 
its subsidiary banks and other subsidiaries.  Its principal source of funds 
to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock and debt service on its 
debt is dividends from its subsidiaries.  Various federal and state statutory 
provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Company's 
subsidiary banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory 
approval.  For information about the restrictions applicable to the Company's 
subsidiary banks, see Note 3 to Financial Statements, incorporated by 
reference herein.

          Federal bank regulatory agencies have the authority to prohibit the
Company's subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or unsound practices in
conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the
financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or
unsound practice.  The ability of the Company's subsidiary banks to pay
dividends in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank
regulatory policies and capital guidelines.




HOLDING COMPANY STRUCTURE

          TRANSFER OF FUNDS FROM SUBSIDIARY BANKS. The Company's subsidiary
banks are subject to restrictions under federal law that limit the transfer of
funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries to the Parent and its
nonbanking subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called "covered
transactions."  In general, covered transactions include loans and other
extensions of credit, investments and asset purchases, as well as other
transactions involving the transfer of value from a subsidiary bank to an
affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate.  Unless an exemption applies,
covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to
10% of the subsidiary bank's capital and surplus and, with respect to all
covered transactions with affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary
bank's capital and surplus.  Also, loans and extensions of credit to affiliates
generally are required to be secured in specified amounts.

          SOURCE OF STRENGTH DOCTRINE.  The FRB has a policy that a bank holding
company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to
each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit
resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required at
times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide it.
Capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks are
subordinate in right of payment to deposits and certain other indebtedness of
the subsidiary bank.  In addition, in the event of a bank holding company's
bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank
regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed
by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

          DEPOSITOR PREFERENCE. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (the FDI Act)
provides that, in the event of the "liquidation or other resolution" of an
insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution
(including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors) and certain
claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority
over other general unsecured claims against the institution.  If an insured
depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the
FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors,
including the institution's parent holding company.

          LIABILITY OF COMMONLY CONTROLLED INSTITUTIONS. Under the FDI Act, an
insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred, or
reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with (a) the
default of a commonly controlled insured depository institution or (b) any
assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled insured depository
institution in danger of default.  "Default" is defined generally as the
appointment of a conservator or receiver and "in danger of default" is defined
generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is
likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance.

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS

     The Company is subject to risk-based capital requirements and guidelines
imposed by the FRB, which are substantially similar to the capital requirements
and guidelines




imposed by the FRB, the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions within their
respective jurisdictions.  For information about these capital requirements and
guidelines, see Note 22 to Financial Statements, incorporated by reference
herein.
          The FRB's capital guidelines provide that banking organizations
experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain
strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels,
without significant reliance on intangible assets.  Also, the guidelines
indicate that the FRB will consider a "tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio" in
evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.  The tangible Tier 1
leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization's Tier 1 capital
(excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles).

          The FRB, the FDIC and the OCC have adopted rules to incorporate market
and interest rate risk components into their risk-based capital standards.
Amendments to the risk-based capital requirements, incorporating market risk,
became effective January 1, 1998. Under the new market risk requirements,
capital will be allocated to support the amount of market risk related to a
financial institution's ongoing trading activities.

          As an additional means to identify problems in the financial
management of depository institutions, the FDI Act requires federal bank
regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness
standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator.
The standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality,
interest rate exposure and executive compensation.  The agencies are authorized
to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.

          The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take "prompt
corrective action" with respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do
not meet minimum capital requirements.  A depository institution's treatment for
purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will depend upon how its
capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors, as
established by regulation.

FDIC INSURANCE

          Through the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF), the FDIC insures the deposits
of the Company's depository institution subsidiaries up to prescribed per
depositor limits.  The amount of FDIC assessments paid by each BIF member
institution is based on its relative risk of default as measured by regulatory
capital ratios and other factors.  Specifically, the assessment rate is based on
the institution's capitalization risk category and supervisory subgroup
category.  An institution's capitalization risk category is based on the FDIC's
determination of whether the institution is well capitalized, adequately
capitalized or less than adequately capitalized.  An institution's supervisory
subgroup category is based on the FDIC's assessment of the financial condition
of the institution and the probability that FDIC intervention or other
corrective action will be required.




          The BIF assessment rate currently ranges from zero to 27 cents per
$100 of domestic deposits.  The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment
rate schedule on a semiannual basis.  An increase in the BIF assessment rate
could have a material adverse effect on the Company's earnings, depending on the
amount of the increase.  The FDIC is authorized to terminate a depository
institution's deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the
institution's financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution
has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule,
regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the institution's
regulatory agency.  The termination of deposit insurance for one or more of the
Company's subsidiary depository institutions could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's earnings, depending on the collective size of the
particular institutions involved.

          All FDIC-insured depository institutions must pay an annual assessment
to provide funds for the payment of interest on bonds issued by the Financing
Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the authority of the Federal
Housing Finance Board.  The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were
issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
FDIC-insured depository institutions paid approximately 1.2 cents per $100 of
BIF-assessable deposits in 1998, and will continue to pay as assessed until the
earlier of December 31, 1999 or the date the last savings and loan association
ceases to exist.

FISCAL AND MONETARY POLICIES

          The Company's business and earnings are affected significantly by the
fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies.  The
Company is particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the
supply of money and credit in the United States.  Among the instruments of
monetary policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations
in United States government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of
borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve
requirements against depository institutions' deposits, and (d) imposing or
changing reserve requirements against certain borrowing by banks and their
affiliates.  These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to
directly affect the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the
interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits.  For that reason alone,
the policies of the FRB have a material effect on the earnings of the Company.




ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME

          The following table allocates the changes in net interest income on a
taxable-equivalent basis to changes in either average balances or average rates
for both interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.  Because of
the numerous simultaneous volume and rate changes during any period, it is not
possible to precisely allocate such changes between volume and rate.  For this
table, changes that are not solely due to either volume or rate are allocated to
these categories in proportion to the percentage changes in average volume and
average rate.






SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA - QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

The following condensed, consolidated statement of income presents the Company's
results of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 1998.  This
information should be read in conjunction with the Financial Review and the
Financial Statements contained in the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.






(1)Amounts have been restated to reflect the pooling-of-interests accounting 
treatment of the Merger.  The restated amounts include adjustments to conform 
the accounting policies of the former Norwest and the former Wells Fargo.  In 
noninterest expense, salaries and benefits decreased by $2 million in each of 
the quarters that preceded the fourth quarter of 1998 to conform the 
accounting treatment for the postretirement transition obligation identified 
with the implementation of FAS 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement 
Benefits Other than Pensions.  Additionally, equipment expense increased $2 
million for the quarter ended June 30, 1998 and $6 million, $4 million, $6 
million and $2 million for the quarters ended December 31, 1997, September 
30, 1997, June 30, 1997 and March 31, 1997, respectively.






(1)  The average prime rate of the Company was 7.92% and 8.50% for the quarters
     ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  The average three-month
     London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) was 5.28%  and 5.84% for the same
     quarters, respectively.
(2)  Interest rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management
     activities associated with the respective asset and liability categories.
(3)  Yields are based on amortized cost balances.
(4)  Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan
     categories.
(5)  Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments that primarily relate to income on
     certain loans and securities that is exempt from federal and applicable
     state income taxes.  The federal statutory tax rate was 35% for all periods
     presented.




LOAN PORTFOLIO

       The following table presents the remaining contractual principal 
maturities of selected loan categories at December 31, 1998 and a summary of 
the major categories of loans outstanding at the end of the last five years.  
At December 31, 1998, the Company did not have loan concentrations that 
exceeded 10% of total loans, except as shown below.






       The table at the top of the following page summarizes other real estate
loans by state and property type.  The table at the bottom of the following page
summarizes real estate construction loans by state and project type.




REAL ESTATE MORTGAGE LOANS BY STATE AND TYPE
(excluding 1-4 family first mortgages)




(1)  Represents loans to real estate developers secured by 1-4 family
     residential developments.
(2)  Consists of 36 states; no state had loans in excess of $813 million at
     December 31, 1998.

REAL ESTATE CONSTRUCTION LOANS BY STATE AND TYPE






(1)  Consists of 30 states; no state had loans in excess of $282 million at `
     December 31, 1998.




UNDERWRITING POLICIES AND PRACTICES

         It is the policy of the Company to grant credit in accordance with the
principles of sound risk management and the Company's business strategy. The
Company obtains and analyzes sufficient information to determine that the
purpose of a credit extension is lawful and productive and that the borrower is
able to repay as scheduled. Credit is structured in a manner consistent with
such supporting analysis and is monitored to detect changes in quality. The
Company's credit policies establish the fundamental credit principles which
guide the Company in granting loans, leases, lines of credit, standby and
commercial letters of credit, acceptances and commitments ("direct credit") to
customers on an unsecured, partially secured or fully secured basis. The credit
product line for both businesses and individuals includes standardized products
as well as customized, individual accommodations. In addition, the Company
provides products and services which could become direct credit exposure unless
such products are offered on a "cash only" basis. These include: automated
clearing house services, controlled disbursement, wire services, foreign
exchange services, interest rate protection products, Federal fund lines to
banks, cash letters and deposit accounts which create exposure by allowing use
of funds advanced/uncollected funds ("operating credit"). Standardized
documentation and underwriting and a study of the requirements of the secondary
market are an explicit consideration in credit product development.

         The Company requires some degree of background check into character and
credit history of all its credit customers. Extensions of credit must be
supported by current financial information on the borrower (and guarantor) which
is appropriate to the size and type of credit being offered; such information
can denote any material which serves to inform the Company about the financial
health of its credit customers. An accompanying credit analysis includes, at a
minimum, an evaluation of the customer's financial strength and probability of
repayment, with due consideration given to the negative factors which may affect
the borrower's ability to meet repayment schedules. Collateral is valued in
accordance with Company appraisal standards and, where applicable, appraisal
regulations issued under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and
Enforcement Act of 1989 and other applicable law. For commercial real estate
transactions, the recommending officer reviews and evaluates the key assumptions
supporting the appraised value.

         In addition to a broad range of laws and regulations and the Company's
credit policies, the Company has established minimum underwriting standards
which delineate criteria for sources of repayment, financial strength and
enhancements such as guarantees. The primary source of repayment will be
recurring cash flow of the borrower or cash flow from the real estate project
being financed. Underwriting standards include: minimum financial condition and
cash flow hurdles for unsecured credit; maximum loan to collateral value ratios
for secured products; minimum cash flow coverage of debt service, or debt to
income ratios, for term products; minimum liquidity and maximum financial
leverage requirements when lending to highly leveraged borrowers; and, for
certain products, a description of any credit scoring criteria and methodology
employed. Prudent credit practice will permit credit extensions which are an
exception to the minimum underwriting standards; procedures for




approval of exceptions are included in Company policy; and certain exceptions
are reported to the Board of Directors.

         Generally, the Company's minimum underwriting standards for 
commercial real estate include various maximum loan-to-value ("LTV") ratios 
ranging from 50% to 80%, depending on the type of collateral and the size and 
purpose of the loan; minimum debt service (stabilized net income divided by 
debt service cost) ranging from 1.10 to 1.30 depending on the type of 
property financed; and maximum terms ranging from 2 to 15 years for certain 
commercial property loans depending on the same loan/collateral 
characteristics. For example, a typical owner-occupied commercial real estate 
loan would most often have a maximum LTV of 80%, debt service coverage of 
1.25 and a term of 4 to 15 years. For community reinvestment projects, the 
Company applies special underwriting criteria to its financing of 
construction of affordable multi-family housing built by non-profit as well 
as for-profit developers.

         The Company has devoted a limited portion of its commercial real 
estate portfolio to higher-risk loans, for which a commensurate return is 
expected. Such transactions include purchases of performing or distressed 
real estate loans at a discount, acquisition of rated and unrated tranches of 
commercial mortgage obligations, senior loan originations, mezzanine 
financing and origination of single assets for securitization. Many of the 
higher-yielding transactions may contain non-recourse provisions. In general, 
this business is more "opportunistic" in nature, as opposed to representing a 
highly defined lending program. As such, higher LTVs (up to 90% or 95%) will 
be underwritten on occasion, particularly in the case of junior and senior 
participating debt.

         Generally, commercial loan categories include unsecured loans and 
lines of credit with minimum debt service coverage (earnings before interest, 
taxes, depreciation and amortization divided by debt service cost) dependent 
on the specific credit analysis. Common forms of collateral pledged to secure 
commercial credit accommodations include accounts receivable, inventories, 
equipment, agricultural crops or livestock, marketable securities and cash or 
cash equivalent. In addition to the minimum debt service requirements, most 
transactions have maximum terms of 1 to 8 years and/or LTVs in the range of 
65% to 85%, based on an analysis of the collateral pledged.  Wells Fargo HSBC 
Trade Bank, which provides trade financing, letters of credit, foreign 
exchange services and collection services, generally uses the same 
underwriting guidelines as the Company has established for its commercial 
lending functions.

         The Company also allocates a relatively small percentage of its 
commercial loan portfolio to the origination of asset-based loans secured by 
"hard assets" (accounts receivable, inventory, equipment and/or real estate). 
In contrast to traditional commercial lending, asset-based borrowers 
generally do not have the ability to repay their debts through cash flow; 
therefore, such loans are fully secured and tailored to the growth and 
turnover of the borrower's self-liquidating asset base. Maximum LTVs are 
generally in the range of 65% to 85%, with specialized collateral monitoring 
and control procedures in place to mitigate risk exposure.



         The Company has devoted a focused product group to providing a full 
range of credit products to small businesses with annual sales of up to $10 
million and in which the owner of the business is also the principal 
financial decision maker.  Credit products include lines of credit, 
receivables and inventory financing, equipment loans and leases and real 
estate financing.  In addition, the group employs a variety of government 
sponsored credit programs designed to meet the credit needs of small 
businesses who fit "near bankable" business profiles.  The group utilizes 
automated credit decision methods, including credit scoring and rule-based 
criteria, to approve or decline requests for credit.   In some cases, more 
traditional analysis is employed.  An evaluation of the soundness and 
desirability of collateral, if any, is also required before an extension of 
credit will be made. Loan-to-value, debt service coverage and maximum loan 
term underwriting guidelines employed are, in general, similar to those 
described earlier for commercial and commercial real estate loan products.

         The Company is an active participant in the national transportation 
finance market, underwriting primarily consumer auto leases and indirect auto 
loans (sales finance contracts). Direct loans and marine and recreational 
vehicle loans are also offered as accommodation products for our retail 
customers and a select group of dealers. Most applicants for these credit 
products are assigned a credit score which is indicative of their relative 
probability of repayment. The credit scoring models are validated as to their 
predictive power on a periodic basis. The lending group includes in its 
credit decision making criteria other judgmental factors, such as advance 
rate and debt to income ratio, which are used to augment this credit score. 
However, all credit decisions made contrary to an established cut-off score 
must be supported and documented by a credit officer with the appropriate 
approval authority.

         The Company's principal target market for offering consumer credit 
cards and consumer loans and lines of credit is its franchise states in the 
U.S. as well as customers from its national businesses. Some accounts from 
previous national campaigns and portfolio acquisitions also remain in the 
portfolio. The credit review process includes initial screens to ensure that 
applicants meet minimum age and income level requirements for the product 
requested. Fraud screens are also completed and credit bureau reports are 
used to calculate the debt-to-income ratios and credit scores on which an 
evaluation of creditworthiness is based. Analyst review may be used to 
supplement the recommendations of the credit score. Applicants with major 
derogatory bureau information, minimal credit references, or high 
debt-to-income ratios may be considered for declines in spite of passing the 
credit score, while other favorable factors may be considered in approving 
applicants failing the credit score. Income, employment and/or collateral 
verification may be required for certain products and loan amounts.

         The Company offers a variety of first mortgage loan products to 
customers. The loan products are underwritten and packaged for sale in the 
secondary mortgage markets.  A limited number of these loans are purchased by 
the Company, typically for community lending purposes or other client 
accommodations.  The Company also provides second mortgage loans and lines of



credit secured by first and second deeds of trust directly to its customers. The
Company relies on cash flow as the primary source of repayment for these equity
products. The nature of the credit review that is conducted depends on the
product, but typically consists of an evaluation of the applicant's debt ratios
and credit history, either judgmentally or using a credit score, along with a
review of the collateral. Maximum combined LTVs will range from 50% to 100%
depending on the nature, amount and term of the loan.

         The Company operates a diversified consumer finance company, which 
conducts consumer finance and auto finance business. The finance company also 
issues credit cards and has a relatively small portfolio of accounts 
receivable, lease and other commercial financing. The majority of its loans 
are secured by liens on household goods, automobiles, other personal property 
or real estate. The consumer finance operation makes direct loans to 
consumers and purchase sales finance contracts from retail merchants from 
offices throughout the United States, and in Canada, the Caribbean and Latin 
America. The auto finance business specializes in purchasing sales finance 
contracts directly from automobile dealers and making loans secured by 
automobiles in the United States and Puerto Rico. In order to make a careful 
selection of credit risks, the company reviews credit information concerning 
each applicant to determine income, living expenses, payment obligations, 
indebtedness, paying habits and length and stability of employment. The 
information is obtained from the applicants, the applicants' employers, 
creditors of the applicants and credit reporting agencies; however, credit 
scoring is not used as an automated credit decision tool.

         The above underwriting practices are general standards that are 
subject to change; the actual terms and conditions of a specific credit 
transaction are dependent on an analysis of the specific transaction.




CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES



          The SEC requires the Company to present the ratio of the allowance for
loan losses to total nonaccrual loans.  This ratio was 442% and 434% at
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  This ratio may fluctuate
significantly from period to period due to such factors as the mix of loan types
in the portfolio, the prospects of borrowers and the value and marketability of
collateral as well as, for the nonaccrual portfolio taken as a whole, wide
variances from period to period in terms of delinquency and relationship of book
to contractual principal balance. Classification of a loan as nonaccrual does
not necessarily indicate that the principal of a loan is uncollectible in whole
or in part.  Consequently, the ratio of the allowance for loan losses to
nonaccrual loans, taken alone and without taking into account numerous
additional factors, is not a reliable indicator of the adequacy of the allowance
for loan losses.  Indicators of the credit quality of the Company's loan
portfolio and the method of determining the allowance for loan losses are
discussed in the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.




ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

          The table on page 22 provides a breakdown of the allowance for loan
losses by loan category. The Company has an established process to determine the
adequacy of the allowance for loan losses which assesses the risk and losses
inherent in its portfolio.  This process provides an allowance consisting of two
components, allocated and unallocated.  To arrive at the allocated component of
the allowance, the Company combines estimates of the allowances needed for loans
analyzed individually (including impaired loans subject to Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 114 (FAS 114), Accounting by Creditors for
Impairment of a Loan) and loans analyzed on a pool basis.

          The determination of allocated reserves for portfolios of larger
commercial and commercial real estate loans involves a review of individual
higher-risk transactions, focusing on the accuracy of loan grading, assessments
of specific loss content, and, in some cases, strategies for resolving problem
credits.  These considerations supplement the application of loss factors
delineated by individual loan grade to the existing distribution of risk
exposures, thus framing an assessment of inherent losses across the entire
wholesale lending portfolio segment which is responsive to shifts in portfolio
risk content.  The loss factors used for this analysis have been derived from
migration models which track actual portfolio movements from problem asset loan
grades to loss over a 5 to 10 year period. In the case of pass loan grades, the
loss factors are derived from analogous loss experience in public debt markets,
calibrated to the long-term average loss experience of the Company's portfolios.
The loan loss reserve allocations arrived at through this loss factor
methodology are adjusted based on management's judgment concerning the effect of
recent economic events on portfolio performance.

          In the case of more homogeneous portfolios, such as consumer loans and
leases, residential mortgage loans, and some segments of small business lending,
the determination of allocated reserves is conducted at an aggregate, or pooled,
level.  For portfolios of this nature, the risk assessment process emphasizes
the development of rigorous forecasting models, which focus on recent
delinquency and loss trends in different portfolio segments to project relevant
risk metrics over an intermediate-term horizon.  Such analyses are updated
frequently to capture the most recent behavioral characteristics of the subject
portfolios, as well as any changes in management's loss mitigation or customer
solicitation strategies, in order to reduce the differences between estimated
and observed losses. A reserve which approximates one year of projected net
losses is provided as the baseline allocation for most homogeneous portfolios,
to which management may add certain adjustments to ensure that a prudent amount
of conservatism is present in the specific assumptions underlying that forecast.

          While coverage of one year's losses is often adequate (particularly
for homogeneous pools of loans and leases), the time period covered by the
allowance may vary by portfolio, based on the Company's best estimate of the
inherent losses in the entire portfolio as of the evaluation date. To mitigate
the imprecision inherent in most estimates of expected credit losses, the
allocated component of the allowance is supplemented by an unallocated
component.  The unallocated component includes management's judgmental
determination of the amounts




necessary for concentrations, economic uncertainties and other subjective 
factors; correspondingly, the relationship of the unallocated component to 
the total allowance for loan losses may fluctuate from period to period.  
Although management has allocated a portion of the allowance to specific loan 
categories, the adequacy of the allowance must be considered in its entirety.

          At December 31, 1998 the allowance for loan losses was $3,134 million
(2.90% of total loans), compared with $3,062 million (2.88% of total loans) at
December 31, 1997. During 1998, net charge-offs exceeded the provision for loan
losses by $72 million; however, the addition of $144 million of allowances
related to acquired assets accounted for the net growth of $72 million in the
reserve, year over year. The components of the allowance, allocated and
unallocated, are shown in the table on page 22. The allocated component declined
to $1,968 million from $2,061 million, while the unallocated component grew to
$1,166 million from $1,001 million, as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

          The $93 million reduction in the allocated component was 
substantially due to the lower allocated allowance to loans outstanding 
ratios in the credit card, other real estate mortgage, and lease financing 
portfolios.  The lower projected future losses in the leasing portfolio, 
despite significant portfolio growth, reduced allocated reserves by roughly 
$20 million year over year. Likewise, net loss rates in the credit card 
portfolio are expected to improve modestly during 1999, which, combined with 
further expected run-off in the portfolio, brought the allocated reserve 
requirement down by roughly $65 million. Finally, the commercial real estate 
portfolio showed continuing gradual improvement in problem asset trends, with 
significant reductions in nonaccruing loans and increases in recoveries of 
previous charge-offs. The improvements in the credit quality of this 
portfolio translated into a reduction of approximately $55 million in the 
allocated reserve. A portion of these reductions in the allocated component 
was offset by increases of approximately $45 million in the foreign and other 
consumer product categories which relate primarily to an increase in reserve 
coverage of expected losses in Norwest Financial, including Island Finance.  

          The changes in the allocated reserve relate primarily to projected 
rates of loss in different portfolio segments.  Analyzing the movements in 
the allocated reserve strictly from a loan volume perspective indicates that, 
had the ratio of allocated reserves to loans outstanding remained flat with 
the 1997 ratio of 1.94%, allocated reserves would have increased by roughly 
$33 million, as loans outstanding grew by $1.7 billion during the year. 
However, due to a shift in portfolio composition, the higher volume increased 
the allocated reserve by only $12 million, as relatively lower-risk 
commercial loans and lease financing supplanted higher-risk credit cards and 
other consumer loans.

          There were no material changes in estimation methods and assumptions
for the allowance that took place during the year.  Relatively minor differences
existed in the methodologies for deriving the allocated portion of the allowance
employed by the former Norwest and the former Wells Fargo; these differences
will be reconciled in the first half of 1999. No material changes to the level
of the allowance are expected.

          The Company considers the allowance for loan losses of $3,134 million
adequate to cover losses inherent in loans, loan commitments, and standby
letters of credit at December 31,




1998. This allowance is roughly 1.9 times the level of 1998 net losses (or 2.4
times 1998 net losses, exclusive of approximately $300 million of losses in
Island Finance, reflecting a fourth quarter review of its loan portfolio). This
ratio is expected to remain in the range of 2.5 times coverage of 1999 net
losses, which was its approximate value during the first three quarters of 1998.

          The foregoing discussion contains forward-looking statements about the
adequacy of the Company's reserves for future loan losses.  These
forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties.  A
number of factors--many of which are beyond the Company's control--could cause
actual losses to be more than estimated losses.  Among these factors are changes
in political and economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, technological
changes (including the "Year 2000" data systems compliance issue), equity and
fixed income market fluctuations, personal and commercial customers'
bankruptcies, inflation, changes in law, changes in fiscal, monetary, regulatory
and tax policies, monetary fluctuations, credit quality and credit risk
management, mergers and acquisitions, and the integration of merged and acquired
companies.




(1) This amount and any unabsorbed portion of the allocated allowance are also
    available for any of the above listed loan categories.




DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

          The Company uses interest rate derivative financial instruments as 
asset/liability management tools to hedge the Company's exposure to interest 
rate fluctuations. The Company also offers contracts to its customers, but 
hedges such contracts by purchasing other financial contracts or uses the 
contracts for asset/liability management. The derivative activities table 
below reconciles the beginning and ending notional or contractual amounts for 
derivative financial instruments used for asset/liability management purposes 
for 1998 and shows the expected remaining maturity at year-end 1998.  The 
interest rate swap maturities and average rates table on the following page 
summarizes the notional amount, expected maturities and weighted average 
interest rates associated with amounts to be received or paid on interest 
rate swap agreements, together with an indication of the asset/liability 
hedged.  For a further discussion of derivative financial instruments, refer 
to Note 23 to Financial Statements, incorporated by reference herein.



Net deferred gains related to interest rate futures contracts were $316 
million at December 31, 1998, most of which will be fully amortized within 
seven years.  The net deferred gains on terminated derivative financial 
instruments were $412 million and $164 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997 
respectively.







(1)  Variable interest rates are presented on the basis of rates in effect at
     December 31, 1998.  These rates may change substantially in the future due
     to open market factors.
(2)  Predominantly represents customer accommodation swaps not used for
     asset/liability management purposes. The notional amount predominantly
     reflects customer accommodations as well as the swaps used to hedge the
     customer accommodations.


PROPERTIES

          The Company owns its headquarters building in San Francisco as well as
Wells Fargo Centers in Phoenix, Arizona and Portland, Oregon.  In addition, the
Company leases office space for data processing support and various
administrative departments in major locations in California, Minnesota, Texas,
Arizona, Colorado and Oregon.

          As of December 31, 1998, the Company's Community Banking Group
subsidiaries operate out of about 6,000 banking locations under various types of
ownership and leasehold agreements.  Norwest Mortgage leases its headquarters in
Des Moines, Iowa, servicing centers in Minneapolis, Minnesota; Phoenix, Arizona;
Charlotte, North Carolina; and Springfield, Illinois, operations centers in
Frederick, Maryland and St. Louis, Missouri and all mortgage production offices
nationwide.  In addition, Norwest Mortgage owns servicing centers located in
Springfield,




Ohio and Riverside, California.  Norwest Financial owns its headquarters in Des
Moines, Iowa, and leases all branch locations.

          The Company is also a joint venture partner in two office buildings in
downtown Los Angeles, California and one in Sacramento, California, of which
approximately one-half of the space is occupied by administrative staff of the
Company and the remainder is sublet.

          For further information with respect to premises and equipment and
commitments under noncancelable leases for premises and equipment, refer to
Note 6 to Financial Statements, incorporated by reference herein.

SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

          A special meeting of stockholders of Norwest Corporation was held on
October 20, 1998, to consider proposals to:  1)  issue shares of Norwest common
stock,  pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 7, 1998,
and amended and restated as of September 10, 1998 (the "Agreement"), by and
among Wells Fargo & Company, Norwest Corporation and WFC Holdings Corporation;
and 2) adopt amendments to Norwest Corporation's Restated Certificate of
Incorporation to (a) increase the number of authorized shares of common stock
from 2,000,000,000 to 4,000,000,000, (b) increase the number of authorized
shares of preferred stock, no par value, from 5,000,000 to 20,000,000 and (c)
change the name of Norwest Corporation to "Wells Fargo & Company." The proposals
were adopted by the following vote:


     A special meeting of stockholders of the former Wells Fargo was
held on October 20, 1998, to consider adoption of the Agreement. The Agreement
was adopted by the following vote:







EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT




     There is no family relationship among the above officers.  All executive
officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.


EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


(a)  Financial Statements, Schedules and Exhibits:

     (1)  The consolidated financial statements and related notes and the
          independent auditors' report thereon that appear on pages 51 through
          96 of the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders are incorporated herein
          by reference.

     (2)  Financial Statement Schedules:

          All schedules are omitted, because they are either not applicable or
          the required information is shown in the consolidated financial
          statements or the notes thereto.

     (3)  Exhibits: 

          
          The Company's SEC file number is  001-2979.  On or before November 2,
          1998, the Company filed documents with the SEC under the name Norwest
          Corporation.  The former Wells Fargo filed documents under SEC file
          number 001-6214.



(b)  The former Wells Fargo, the former Norwest and the Company filed, on the
     dates indicated during the fourth quarter of 1998 and through the date
     hereof in 1999, the following reports on Form 8-K:

     FORMER WELLS FARGO (Commission File No. 001-6214)
     (1)  October 15, 1998 under Item 5, containing the Underwriting Agreement
          between the former Wells Fargo and Goldman, Sachs & Co. dated October
          12, 1998, in connection with the sale of 2.5 million shares of the
          former Wells Fargo common stock
     (2)  October 20, 1998 under Item 5, containing the press release that
          announced the former Wells Fargo financial results for the quarter and
          nine months ended September 30, 1998
     (3)  November 17, 1998 (filed by WFC Holdings Corporation) under Items 2
          and 7, describing the consummation of the merger by and among former
          Wells Fargo & Company, Norwest Corporation and WFC Holdings
          Corporation pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of
          June 7, 1998 and amended and restated as of September 10, 1998, and
          containing the press release dated November 2, 1998 issued by Norwest
          Corporation announcing the completion of the merger and unaudited pro
          forma condensed combined financial information as of  September 30,



     FORMER NORWEST (Commission File No. 001-2979)
     (4)  October 21, 1998 under Item 5, containing the new preferred share
          purchased rights plan pursuant to the Rights Agreement between the
          former Norwest and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, L.L.C., dated
          October 21, 1998, to replace the preferred share purchased rights plan
          expiring on November 23, 1998
     (5)  October 22, 1998 under Item 5, reporting consolidated operating
          results of the former Norwest for the quarter and nine months ended
          September 30, 1998 

     WELLS FARGO & COMPANY (Commission File No. 001-2979)
     (6)  November 16, 1998 under Items 2 and 7, describing the consummation of
          the merger by and among former Wells Fargo & Company, Norwest
          Corporation and WFC Holdings Corporation pursuant to an Agreement and
          Plan of Merger dated as of June 7, 1998 and amended and restated as of
          September 10, 1998, and containing the press release dated November 2,
          1998 issued by Norwest Corporation announcing the completion of the
          merger and unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial
          information as of September 30, 1998
     (7)  January 19, 1999 under Item 5, containing the Supplemental Annual
          Report for 1997; Supplemental Quarterly Report for the quarter ended
          September 30, 1998; and the Company's financial results for the
          quarter and year ended December 31, 1998
     (8)  January 29, 1999 under Item 5, describing the Company's most recent
          Board action taken with respect to the Company's systematic stock
          repurchase program

                             STATUS OF PRIOR DOCUMENTS
     
The Wells Fargo & Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1998, at the time of filing with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, shall modify and supersede all documents filed prior to January 1,
1999 pursuant to Sections 13, 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (other than the Current Report on Form 8-K filed October 13, 1997) for
purposes of any offers or sales of any securities after the date of such filing
pursuant to any Registration Statement or Prospectus filed pursuant to the
Securities Act of 1933 which incorporates by reference such Annual Report on
Form 10-K. 



                           SIGNATURES

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 15, 1999.

                              WELLS FARGO & COMPANY

                              BY:  /s/ RICHARD M. KOVACEVICH
                                   ---------------------------------------
                                   Richard M. Kovacevich
                                   President and Chief Executive Officer

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated.

                              By:  /s/ RODNEY L. JACOBS
                                   ---------------------------------------
                                   Rodney L. Jacobs
                                   Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer
                                   (Principal Financial Officer)

                              By:  /s/ LES L. QUOCK
                                   ---------------------------------------
                                   Les L. Quock
                                   Senior Vice President and Controller
                                   (Principal Accounting Officer)

          The Directors of Wells Fargo & Company listed below have duly executed
powers of attorney empowering Philip J. Quigley to sign this document on their
behalf.


      Leslie S. Biller          Richard D. McCormick
      J. A. Blanchard III       Cynthia H. Milligan
      Michael R. Bowlin         Benjamin F. Montoya
      Edward M. Carson          Donald B. Rice
      David A. Christensen      Ian M. Rolland
      William S. Davila         Judith M. Runstad
      Susan E. Engel            Susan G. Swenson
      Paul Hazen                Daniel M. Tellep
      Rodney L. Jacobs          Chang-Lin Tien
      Reatha Clark King         Michael W. Wright
      Richard M. Kovacevich     John A. Young

                              By:  /s/ PHILIP J. QUIGLEY
                                   ---------------------------------------
                                   Philip J. Quigley
                                   Director and Attorney-in-fact
                                   March 15, 1999



