Item 1.Business

General

McKesson Corporation (“McKesson,” the “Company,” the “Registrant” or “we” and other similar
pronouns), is a Fortune 14 corporation that delivers medicines, pharmaceutical supplies,
information and care management products and services designed to reduce costs and improve quality
across the healthcare industry.

The Company’s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. Unless otherwise noted, all
references in this document to a particular year shall mean the Company’s fiscal year.

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K
and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act,”) are available free of charge on
our Web site (www.mckesson.comunder the “Investors – Financial Information – SEC Filings”
caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or the “Commission”). The content on
any Web site referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into
this report, unless expressly noted otherwise.

The public may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains
a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding
issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the website
ishttp://www.sec.gov.

Business Segments

We operate in two segments. The McKesson Distribution Solutions segment distributes ethical
and proprietary drugs, medical-surgical supplies and equipment and health and beauty care products
throughout North America. This segment also provides specialty pharmaceutical solutions for
biotech and pharmaceutical manufacturers, sells financial, operational and clinical solutions for
pharmacies (retail, hospital, long-term care) and provides consulting, outsourcing and other
services. This segment includes a 49% interest in Nadro, S.A. de C.V. (“Nadro”), one of the
leading pharmaceutical distributors in Mexico and a 39% interest in Parata Systems, LLC (“Parata”),
which sells automated pharmacy and supply management systems and services to retail and
institutional outpatient pharmacies.

The McKesson Technology Solutions segment delivers enterprise-wide clinical, patient care,
financial, supply chain, strategic management software solutions, pharmacy automation for
hospitals, as well as connectivity, outsourcing and other services, including remote hosting and
managed services, to healthcare organizations. This segment also includes our Payor group of
businesses, which includes our InterQual®claims payment solutions, medical management software
businesses and our care management programs. The segment’s customers include hospitals,
physicians, homecare providers, retail pharmacies and payors from North America, the United
Kingdom, Ireland, other European countries, Asia Pacific and Israel.

Net revenues for our segments for the last three years were as follows:

(Dollars in billions)201020092008Distribution Solutions$105.697%$103.697%$98.797%Technology Solutions3.13%3.03%3.03%Total$108.7100%$106.6100%$101.7100%





McKESSON CORPORATION

Distribution Solutions

McKesson Distribution Solutions consists of the following businesses: U.S. Pharmaceutical
Distribution, McKesson Canada, Medical-Surgical Distribution, McKesson Pharmacy Systems and
Automation and McKesson Specialty Care Solutions. This segment also includes our 49% interest in
Nadro and 39% interest in Parata.

U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution:This business supplies pharmaceuticals and/or other
healthcare-related products to customers in three primary customer channels: 1) retail national
accounts (including national and regional chains, food/drug combinations, mail order pharmacies and
mass merchandisers); 2) independent retail pharmacies; and 3) institutional healthcare providers
(including hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, clinics and long-term care
providers).

Our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business operates and serves thousands of customer
locations through a network of 29 distribution centers, as well as a primary redistribution center,
a strategic redistribution center and two repackaging facilities, serving all 50 states and Puerto
Rico. We invest in technology and other systems at all of our distribution centers to enhance
safety, reliability and provide the best product availability for our customers. For example, in
all of our distribution centers we use Acumax® Plus, a Smithsonian award-winning technology that
integrates and tracks all internal inventory-related functions such as receiving, put-away and
order fulfillment. Acumax® Plus uses bar code technology, wrist-mounted computer hardware and
radio frequency signals to provide customers with real-time product availability and
industry-leading order quality and fulfillment in excess of 99.9% adjusted accuracy. In addition,
we offer Mobile ManagerSM, which integrates portable handheld technology with Acumax®
Plus to give customers complete ordering and inventory control. We also offer McKesson
ConnectSM(formerly Supply Management OnlineSM), an Internet-based ordering
system that provides item lookup and real-time inventory availability as well as ordering,
purchasing, third-party reconciliation and account management functionality. Together, these
features help ensure customers have the right products at the right time for their facilities and
patients.

To maximize distribution efficiency and effectiveness, we follow the Six Sigma methodology —
an analytical approach that emphasizes setting high-quality objectives, collecting data and
analyzing results to a fine degree in order to improve processes, reduce costs and minimize errors.
We continue to implement information systems to help achieve greater consistency and accuracy both
internally and for our customers.

The major offerings of the McKesson U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution business, by customer
group can be categorized as retail national accounts, independent retail pharmacies and
institutional healthcare providers.

Retail National Accounts — Business solutions that help national account customers increase
revenues and profitability. Solutions include:

•Central FillSM— Prescription refill service that enables pharmacies to more
quickly refill prescriptions remotely, more accurately and at a lower cost, while reducing
inventory levels and improving customer service.

•Redistribution Centers — Two facilities totaling over 500 thousand square feet that offer
access to inventory for single source warehouse purchasing, including pharmaceuticals and
biologicals. These distribution centers also provide the foundation for a two-tiered
distribution network that supports best-in-class direct store delivery.

•EnterpriseRxSM— A fully integrated and centrally hosted pharmacy management
solution (application service provider model). Built utilizing the latest technology,
EnterpriseRxSMcentralizes data, reporting, pricing and drug updates, providing the
operational control, visibility and support needed to reduce costs and streamline
administrative tasks.

•RxPakSM— Bulk-to-bottle repackaging service that leverages our purchasing scale
and supplier relationships to provide pharmaceuticals at reduced prices, help increase
inventory turns and reduce working capital investment.

•Inventory Management – An integrated solution comprising forecasting software and automated
replenishment technologies that reduce inventory-carrying costs.

•McKesson OneStop Generics® — Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps
pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, low pricing
and one-stop shopping.







McKESSON CORPORATION

Independent Retail Pharmacies — Solutions for managed care contracting, branding and
advertising, merchandising, purchasing, operational efficiency and automation that help independent
pharmacists focus on patient care while improving profitability. Solutions include:

•Health Mart® —Health Mart® is a national network of more than
2,500 independently-owned pharmacies and is one of the industry’s
most comprehensive pharmacy franchise programs. Health Mart®
provides franchisees with managed care that drives Pharmacy
Benefit Manager recognition, branding that drives consumer
recognition, in-store programs that drive manufacturer and payor
recognition and community advocacy programs that drive industry
recognition. Health Mart® helps franchisees grow their businesses
by focusing on the three principles of successful retailing:

–Attract new customers;–Maximize the value of current customers; and–Enhance business efficiency.

•AccessHealth® — Comprehensive managed care and reconciliation
assistance services that help independent pharmacies save time,
access competitive reimbursement rates and improve cash flow.•McKesson Reimbursement AdvantageSM(“MRA”) — MRA is one
of the industry’s most comprehensive reimbursement optimization
packages, comprising financial services (automated claim
resubmission), analytic services and customer care.•McKesson OneStop Generics® — described above•EnterpriseRxSM— described above•Sunmark® — Complete line of more than 1,000 products that provide
retail independent pharmacies with value-priced alternatives to
national brands.•FrontEdge™ — Strategic planning, merchandising and price
maintenance program that helps independent pharmacies maximize
store profitability.•McKesson Home Health Care — Comprehensive line of more than 1,800
home health care products, including durable medical equipment,
diabetes supplies, self-care supplies and disposables from
national brands and the Sunmark® line.•Central FillSM— described above

Institutional Healthcare Providers — Electronic ordering/purchasing and supply chain
management systems that help customers improve financial performance, increase operational
efficiencies and deliver better patient care. Solutions include:

•McKesson Pharmacy OptimizationSM— An experienced group of pharmacy
professionals providing consulting services and pharmacy practice resources. McKesson
Pharmacy Optimization develops customized and quantifiable solutions that help hospitals
create and sustain financial, operational and clinical results.

•Fulfill-RxSM— Ordering and inventory management system that integrates McKesson
pharmaceutical distribution services with our automation solutions, thus empowering hospitals
to optimize the often complicated and disjointed processes related to unit-based cabinet
replenishment and inventory management.

•Asset Management — Award-winning inventory optimization and purchasing management program
that helps institutional providers lower costs while ensuring product availability.

•SKY Packaging — Blister-format packaging containing the most widely prescribed dosages and
strengths in generic oral-solid medications. SKY enables acute care, long-term care and
institutional pharmacies to provide cost-effective, uniform packaging.

•McKesson OneStop Generics® — Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that enables acute
care pharmacies to capture the full potential of purchasing generic pharmaceuticals. The
Long-Term Care OneStop Generics program allows a long-term care pharmacy to capture savings on
generic purchases.

•McKesson 340B Solution Suite — Solutions that help providers manage, track and report on
medication replenishment associated with the federal 340B Drug Pricing Program.

•High Performance PharmacySM— Framework that identifies and categorizes hospital
pharmacy best practices to help improve clinical outcomes and financial results. The High
Performance Pharmacy Assessment tool enables hospital pharmacies to measure against comparable
institutions and chart a step-by-step path to high performance.







McKESSON CORPORATION

McKesson Canada:McKesson Canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary, is one of the largest
pharmaceutical distributors in Canada. McKesson Canada, through its network of 17 distribution
centers, provides logistics and distribution to more than 800 manufacturers – delivering their
products to retail pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care centers, clinics and institutions
throughout Canada. Beyond pharmaceutical distribution, logistics and order fulfillment, McKesson
Canada has automated over 2,500 retail pharmacies and is also active in hospital automation
solutions, dispensing more than 100 million doses each year. In partnership with other McKesson
businesses, McKesson Canada provides a full range of services to Canadian manufacturers and
healthcare providers, contributing to the quality and safety of care for Canadian patients.

Medical–Surgical Distribution:Medical-Surgical Distribution provides medical-surgical supply
distribution, equipment, logistics and other services to healthcare providers including physicians’
offices, surgery centers, extended care facilities, homecare and occupational health sites through
a network of 29 distribution centers within the U.S. This business is a leading provider of
supplies to the full range of alternate-site healthcare facilities, including physicians’ offices,
clinics and surgery centers (primary care), long-term care, occupational health facilities and
homecare sites (extended care). Through a variety of technology products and services geared
towards the supply chain, our Medical-Surgical Distribution business is focused on helping its
customers operate more efficiently while providing one of the industry’s most extensive product
offerings, including our own private label line. This business also includes ZEE® Medical, one of
the most extensive product offerings in the industry of first aid, safety and training solutions,
providing services to industrial and commercial customers. This business offers an extensive line
of products and services aimed at maximizing productivity and minimizing the liability and cost
associated with workplace illnesses and injuries.

McKesson Pharmacy Systems and Automation:This business supplies integrated pharmacy
management systems, automated dispensing systems and related services to retail, outpatient,
central fill, specialty and mail order pharmacies. Its primary offering is
EnterpriseRxSM, a fully integrated and centrally hosted pharmacy management solution
(application service provider model). Built utilizing the latest technology,
EnterpriseRxSMcentralizes data, reporting, pricing and drug updates, providing the
operational control, visibility and support needed to reduce costs and streamline administrative
tasks. We also own a 39% interest in Parata which sells automated pharmacy and supply management
systems and services to retail and institutional pharmacies.

McKesson Specialty Care Solutions:This business provides solutions for patients with complex
diseases and advances specialty care by facilitating collaboration among healthcare providers, drug
manufacturers and payors through our expertise in specialty drug distribution and commercialization
support. The business provides direct-to-physician specialty distribution services ensuring
specialty drugs are received in manufacturer recommended conditions. This business also offers our
industry leading Lynx® integrated technologies and clinical tools, which help provider
organizations to improve their inventory management, business efficiencies and reimbursement
processes. The business also works with manufacturers to optimize delivery of complex medication
to patients through custom distribution and safety programs that support appropriate product
utilization, as well as the development and management of reimbursement and patient access programs
that help patients to gain cost effective access to needed therapies.

Technology Solutions

Our Technology Solutions segment provides a comprehensive portfolio of software, automation,
support and services to help healthcare organizations improve quality and patient safety, reduce
the cost and variability of care and better manage their resources and revenue stream. This
segment also includes our InterQual® claims payment solutions and medical management software
businesses and our care management programs. Technology Solutions markets its products and
services to integrated delivery networks, hospitals, physician practices, home healthcare
providers, retail pharmacies and payors. Our solutions and services are sold internationally
through subsidiaries and/or distribution agreements in Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland, other
European countries, Asia Pacific and Israel.





McKESSON CORPORATION

The product portfolio for the Technology Solutions segment is designed to address a wide array
of healthcare clinical and business performance needs ranging from medication safety and
information access to revenue cycle management, resource utilization and physician adoption of
electronic health records (“EHR”). Analytics software enables organizations to measure progress as
they automate care processes for optimal clinical outcomes, business and operating results and
regulatory compliance. To ensure that organizations achieve the maximum value for their
information technology investment, we also offer a wide range of services to support the
implementation and use of solutions as well as assist with business and clinical redesign, process
re-engineering and staffing (both information technology and back-office).

Key solution areas are as follows:

Clinical management:Horizon Clinicals® is built with architecture to facilitate integration
and enable modular system deployment. The solution suite includes a clinical data repository,
health care planning, physician order entry, point-of-care documentation with bar-coded medication
administration, enterprise laboratory, radiology, pharmacy, surgical management, an emergency
department solution and an ambulatory EHR system. Horizon Clinicals® also includes solutions to
facilitate physician access to patient information such as a Web-based physician portal and
wireless devices that draw on information from the hospital’s information systems. In addition,
the Horizon Clinicals® suite includes a comprehensive solution for homecare, including telehealth
and hospice.

Enterprise imaging:In addition to document imaging to facilitate maintenance and access to
complete medical records, we offer medical imaging and information management systems for
healthcare enterprises, including a picture archiving communications system, a radiology
information system and a comprehensive cardiovascular information system. Our enterprise-wide
approach to medical imaging enables organizations to take advantage of specialty-specific
workstations while building an integrated image repository that manages all of the images and
information captured throughout the care continuum.

Financial management:Revenue management solutions are designed to improve financial
performance by reducing days in accounts receivable, preventing insurance claim denials, reducing
costs and improving productivity. Solutions include online patient billing, contract management,
electronic claims processing and coding compliance checking. Horizon Enterprise Revenue
ManagementTMstreamlines patient access and helps organizations to forecast financial
responsibility for all constituents before and during care. The system also streamlines financial
processes to allow providers to collect their reimbursement more quickly and at a lower cost.
Hospital information systems play a key role in managing the revenue cycle by automating the
operation of individual departments and their respective functions within the inpatient
environment.

Resource management:Resource management solutions are designed to enhance an organization’s
ability to plan and optimize quality care delivery. Enterprise visibility and performance
analytics provide business intelligence that enables providers to manage capacity, outcomes,
productivity and patient flow. Workforce management solutions assist caregivers with staffing and
maintaining labor rule continuity between scheduling, time and attendance and payroll. A
comprehensive supply chain management solution integrates enterprise resource planning
applications, including financials, materials, Human Resources/Payroll, with scheduling, point of
use, surgical services and enterprise-wide analytics.

Automation:Automation solutions include technologies that help hospitals re-engineer and
improve their medication use processes. Examples include centralized pharmacy automation for
dispensing unit-dose medications, unit-based cabinet technologies for secure medication storage and
rapid retrieval and an anesthesia cart for dispensing of medications in the operating room. Based
on a foundation of bar-code scanning technology, these integrated solutions are designed to reduce
errors and bring new levels of safety to patients.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Physician practice solutions:We provide a complete solution for physician practices of all
sizes that includes software, revenue cycle outsourcing and connectivity services. Software
solutions include practice management and EHR software for physicians of every size and specialty.
Our physician practice offering also includes outsourced billing and collection services as well as
services that connect physicians with their patients, hospitals, retail pharmacies and payors.
Revenue cycle outsourcing enables physician groups to avoid the infrastructure investment and
administrative costs of an in-house billing office. Services include clinical data collection,
data input, medical coding, billing, contract management, cash collections, accounts receivable
management and extensive reporting of metrics related to the physician practice.

Connectivity:Through our vendor-neutral RelayHealth® and its intelligent network, the Company
provides health information exchange and revenue cycle management solutions that streamline
clinical, financial and administrative communication between patients, providers, payors,
pharmacies, manufacturers, government and financial institutions. RelayHealth® helps to accelerate
the delivery of high-quality care and improve financial performance through online consultation of
physicians by patients, electronic prescribing by physicians, point-of-service resolution of
pharmacy claims by payors, pre-visit financial clearance of patients by providers and post-visit
settlement of provider bills by payors and patients. RelayHealth® securely processes more than
12.6 billion financial and clinical transactions annually.

In addition to the product offerings described above, Technology Solutions offers a
comprehensive range of services to help organizations derive greater value, enhance satisfaction
and return on investment throughout the life of the solutions implemented. The range of services
includes:

Technology Services:Technology services supports the smooth operation of numerous
organizations’ information systems by providing the technical infrastructure designed to maximize
application accessibility, availability, security and performance.

Outsourcing Services:With these services, we help providers focus their resources on
healthcare while their information technology or operations are supported through managed services,
including outsourcing. Service options include remote hosting, managing hospital data processing
operations, as well as strategic information systems planning and management, revenue cycle
processes, payroll processing, business office administration and major system conversions.

Professional Services:Professional services help customers achieve business results from
their software or automation investment. A wide array of service options is available, including
consulting for business and/or clinical process improvement and re-design as well as
implementation, project management, technical and education services relating to all products in
the Technology Solutions segment.

Payor Group:The following suite of services and software products is marketed to payors,
employers and government organizations to help manage the cost and quality of care:

•Disease management programs to improve the health status and health outcomes of patients
with chronic conditions;

•Nurse triage services to provide health information and recommend appropriate levels of
care;

•Clinical and analytical software to support utilization, case and disease management
workflows;

•Business intelligence tools for measuring, reporting and improving clinical and financial
performance;

•InterQual® Criteria for clinical decision support and utilization management; and

•Claims payment solutions to facilitate accurate and efficient medical claim payments.

Business Combinations, Investments and Discontinued Operations

We have undertaken strategic initiatives in recent years designed to further focus on our core
healthcare businesses and enhance our competitive position. We expect to continue to undertake
such strategic initiatives in the future. These initiatives are detailed in Financial Notes 2 and
7, “Business Combinations and Investments” and “Discontinued Operations,” to the consolidated
financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Competition

In every area of healthcare distribution operations, our Distribution Solutions segment faces
strong competition, both in price and service, from national, regional and local full-line,
short-line and specialty wholesalers, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chains, manufacturers
engaged in direct distribution and large payor organizations. In addition, this segment faces
competition from various other service providers and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare
manufacturers (as well as other potential customers of the segment) which may from time-to-time
decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that would
otherwise be provided by the segment. Price, quality of service, and in some cases, convenience to
the customer are generally the principal competitive elements in this segment.

Our Technology Solutions segment experiences substantial competition from many firms,
including other software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, certain
hospitals and hospital groups, payors, care management organizations, hardware vendors and
Internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry. Competition varies
in size from small to large companies, in geographical coverage and in scope and breadth of
products and services offered.

Intellectual Property

The principal trademarks and service marks of the Distribution Solutions segment include:
AccessHealth®, Acumax®, Central FillSM, Closed Loop DistributionSM,
CypressSM, Cypress Plus®, Edwards Medical Supply®, Empowering Healthcare®,
EnterpriseRxSM, Expect More From MooreSM, FrontEdge™,
Fulfill-RxSM, Health Mart®, High Performance PharmacySM, LoyaltyScript®,
Lynx®, Max ImpactSM, McKesson®, McKesson AdvantageSM, McKesson
ConnectSM, McKesson Empowering Healthcare®, McKesson High Volume
SolutionsSM,McKesson Max Rewards®, McKesson OneStop Generics®, McKesson
Pharmacy CentralSM, McKesson Pharmacy OptimizationSM, McKesson Priority
Express OTCSM, McKesson Reimbursement AdvantageSM, McKesson Supply
ManagerSM, MediNet™, Medi-Pak®, Mobile ManagerSM,Moore Medical®,
Moorebrand®, Northstarx™, Onmark®, Pharma360®, PharmacyRx™, Pharmaserv®, ProIntercept®, ProMed®,
ProPBM®, RX PakSM,RxOwnershipSM, ServiceFirstSM,
Staydry®, Sterling Medical Services®, Sunmark®, The Supply Experts®, Supply Management
OnlineSM, TrialScript®, Valu-Rite®, XVIII B Medi Mart®, Zee Medical Service® and ZEE®.

The substantial majority of technical concepts and codes embodied in our Technology Solutions
segment’s computer programs and program documentation are protected as trade secrets. The
principal trademarks and service marks for this segment are: AcuDose-Rx®, ANSOS One-Staff™,
Ask-A-Nurse®, Care Fully Connected™, CareEnhance®, Connect-RN™, Connect-Rx®, CRMS™, DataStat®,
ePremis®, Episode Profiler™, E-Script™, Fulfill-RxSM, HealthQuest™, Horizon Admin-Rx™,
Horizon Clinicals®, Horizon Enterprise Revenue ManagementTM, HorizonWP®, InterQual®,
Lytec®, MedCarousel®, Medisoft®, ORSOS One-Call™, PACMED™, PakPlus-Rx™, Paragon®, Pathways 2000®,
Patterns Profiler™, Per-Se™, Per-Se Technologies®, PerYourHealth.com®, Practice Partner®, Premis®,
RelayHealth®, ROBOT-Rx®, SelfPace®, Series 2000™, STAR 2000™, SupplyScan™, TRENDSTAR® and
WebVisit™.

We also own other registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks and similar rights
used by our business segments. Many of the principal trademarks and service marks are registered
in the United States, or registrations have been applied for with respect to such marks, in
addition to certain other jurisdictions. The United States federal registrations of these
trademarks have terms of ten or twenty years, depending on date of registration, and are subject to
unlimited renewals. We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to preserve the registration
and duration of our trademarks and service marks, although no assurance can be given that we will
be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights thereunder in the event that they are subject
to third-party infringement claims. We do not consider any particular patent, license, franchise
or concession to be material to our business. We also hold copyrights in, and patents related to,
many of our products.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Other Information about the Business

Customers:During 2010, sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 53% of
our total consolidated revenues. Sales to our two largest customers, CVS Caremark Corporation
(“CVS”) and Rite Aid Corporation (“Rite Aid”), accounted for approximately 15% and 12% of our total
consolidated revenues. At March 31, 2010, accounts receivable from our ten largest customers were
approximately 45% of total accounts receivable. Accounts receivable from CVS and Rite Aid were
approximately 14% and 10% of total accounts receivable. Substantially all of these revenues and
accounts receivable are included in our Distribution Solutions segment.

Suppliers:We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which
accounted for more than approximately 8% of our purchases in 2010. The loss of a supplier could
adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable. We believe that our
relationships with our suppliers on the whole are good. The ten largest suppliers in 2010
accounted for approximately 46% of our purchases.

A significant portion of our distribution arrangements with the manufacturers provides us
compensation based on a percentage of our purchases. In addition, we have certain distribution
arrangements with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers that include an inflation-based compensation
component whereby we benefit when the manufacturers increase their prices as we sell our existing
inventory at the new higher prices. For these manufacturers, a reduction in the frequency and
magnitude of price increases, as well as restrictions in the amount of inventory available to us,
could have a material adverse impact on our gross profit margin.

Research and Development:Our development expenditures primarily consist of our investment in
software held for sale. We spent $451 million, $438 million and $420 million for development
activities in 2010, 2009 and 2008 and of these amounts, we capitalized 17% for each of the last
three years. Development expenditures are primarily incurred by our Technology Solutions segment.
Our Technology Solutions segment’s product development efforts apply computer technology and
installation methodologies to specific information processing needs of hospitals and other
customers. We believe that a substantial and sustained commitment to such expenditures is
important to the long-term success of this business. Additional information regarding our
development activities is included in Financial Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” to the
consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Environmental Regulation:Our operations are subject to regulation under various federal,
state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge
of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and
wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup
costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if
in the future we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws.

We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our
operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of
our business. We meet this commitment through an environmental strategy and sustainability
program.

We sold our chemical distribution operations in 1987 and retained responsibility for certain
environmental obligations. Agreements with the Environmental Protection Agency and certain states
may require environmental assessments and cleanups at several closed sites. These matters are
described further in Financial Note 18, “Other Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the
consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when the
Company considers it probable and can reasonably estimate the costs. Environmental costs and
accruals, including that related to our legacy chemical distribution operations, are presently not
material to our operations or financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or
future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse
impact on our operations or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital
expenditures for environmental matters. Other than the expected expenditures that may be required
in connection with our legacy chemical distribution operations, we do not anticipate making
substantial capital expenditures either for environmental issues, or to comply with environmental
laws and regulations in the future. The amount of our capital expenditures for environmental
compliance was not material in 2010 and is not expected to be material in the next year.





McKESSON CORPORATION

Employees:On March 31, 2010 and 2009, we employed approximately 32,500 persons compared to
32,900 in 2008.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations:Information as to foreign and
domestic operations is included in Financial Notes 1 and 21, “Significant Accounting Policies” and
“Segments of Business,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this report and the “Risk Factors” in
Item 1A of Part I of this report, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section
27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended. Some of these statements can be identified by use of forward-looking words such
as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,”
“intends,” “plans” or “estimates,” or the negative of these words, or other comparable terminology.
The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or implied. Although it is not
possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not
limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A of Part I of this report under “Risk Factors.” The
reader should not consider the list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and
uncertainties.

These and other risks and uncertainties are described herein and in other information
contained in our publicly available SEC filings and press releases. Readers are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such
statements were first made. Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, we undertake
no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements
to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events.



