Item 1.Business.

General

McKesson Corporation (“McKesson,” the “Company,” the “Registrant” or “we” and
other similar pronouns), is a Fortune 15 corporation that delivers pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and health care information technologies that make health care safer while reducing costs.

The Company’s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. Unless otherwise noted, all references
in this document to a particular year shall mean the Company’s fiscal year.

Our Annual Report on Form
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act,”) are
available free of charge on our website (www.mckesson.comunder the “Investors – Financial
Information – SEC Filings” caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or the “Commission”). The content on
any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise.

The public may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file
electronically with the SEC. The address of the website ishttp://www.sec.gov.

Business Segments

We operate in two segments. The McKesson Distribution Solutions segment distributes ethical and proprietary drugs, medical-surgical supplies and equipment and health and beauty care products throughout
North America. This segment also provides specialty pharmaceutical solutions for biotech and pharmaceutical manufacturers, and practice management, technology, clinical support and business solutions to oncology and other specialty practices
operating in the community setting. In addition, this segment sells financial, operational and clinical solutions for pharmacies (retail, hospital, alternate site) and provides consulting, outsourcing and other services. This segment includes a 49%
interest in Nadro, S.A. de C.V. (“Nadro”), one of the leading pharmaceutical distributors in Mexico.

The McKesson Technology Solutions segment delivers enterprise-wide clinical, patient care, financial, supply chain,
strategic management software solutions, pharmacy automation for hospitals, as well as connectivity, outsourcing and other services, including remote hosting and managed services, to healthcare organizations. This segment also includes our Payer
group of businesses, which includes our InterQual® clinical criteria solution, medical management tools, claims payment solutions, network performance tools and care management programs. This segment’s customers include hospitals,
physicians, homecare providers, retail pharmacies and payers from North America, the United Kingdom, Ireland, other European countries and Israel.

Net revenues for our segments for the last three years were as follows:



(Dollars in billions)201220112010Distribution Solutions$119.497%$108.997%$105.697%Technology Solutions3.33%3.23%3.13%Total$122.7100%$112.1100%$108.7100%









McKESSON CORPORATION



Distribution Solutions

McKesson Distribution Solutions consists of the following businesses: U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution, McKesson Canada,
Medical-Surgical Distribution, McKesson Pharmacy Systems and Automation and McKesson Specialty Health. This segment also includes our 49% interest in Nadro.

U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution:This business supplies pharmaceuticals and/or other healthcare-related products to customers in three primary customer channels:
(1) retail national accounts (including national and regional chains, food/drug combinations, mail order pharmacies and mass merchandisers); (2) independent retail pharmacies; and (3) institutional healthcare providers (including
hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, clinics and alternate site providers). This business also provides solutions and services to pharmaceutical manufacturers. This business sources materials and products from a wide-array of
different suppliers, including the production of certain generic pharmaceutical drugs through a contract-manufacturing program.

Our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business operates and serves thousands of customer locations through a network of 28 distribution centers, as well as a primary redistribution center, a strategic
redistribution center and two repackaging facilities, serving all 50 states and Puerto Rico. We invest in technology and other systems at all of our distribution centers to enhance safety and reliability and provide the best product availability for
our customers. For example, in all of our distribution centers we use Acumax® Plus, an award-winning technology that integrates and tracks all internal inventory-related functions such as receiving, put-away and order fulfillment. Acumax®
Plus uses bar code technology, wrist-mounted computer hardware and radio frequency signals to provide customers with real-time product availability and industry-leading order quality and fulfillment in excess of 99.9% adjusted accuracy. In addition,
we offer Mobile ManagerSM, which integrates portable
handheld technology with Acumax® Plus to give customers complete ordering and inventory control. We also offer McKesson ConnectSM, an Internet-based ordering system that provides item lookup and real-time inventory availability as well as ordering,
purchasing, third-party reconciliation and account management functionality. Together, these features help ensure customers have the right products at the right time for their facilities and patients.

To maximize distribution efficiency and effectiveness, we follow the Six Sigma methodology — an analytical approach
that emphasizes setting high-quality objectives, collecting data and analyzing results to a fine degree in order to improve processes, reduce costs and minimize errors. We continue to implement information systems to help achieve greater consistency
and accuracy both internally and for our customers.

The major offerings of the McKesson U.S. Pharmaceutical
Distribution business by customer group can be categorized as retail national accounts, independent retail pharmacies and institutional healthcare providers.

Retail National Accounts — Business solutions that help national account customers increase revenues and profitability. Solutions include:



—Central
FillSM— Prescription refill service that enables
pharmacies to more quickly refill prescriptions remotely, more accurately and at a lower cost, while reducing inventory levels and improving customer service.

—Redistribution Centers — Two facilities totaling over 500 thousand square feet that offer access to inventory for single source warehouse
purchasing, including pharmaceuticals and biologicals. These distribution centers also provide the foundation for a two-tiered distribution network that supports best-in-class direct store delivery.

—EnterpriseRx® — A Software as a Service (SaaS) pharmacy management system, that allows large retail chain, health system, and retail
independent pharmacies to meet demand for prescriptions while maximizing profits and optimizing operations.

—RxPakSM— Bulk-to-bottle repackaging service that leverages our purchasing scale and supplier relationships to provide pharmaceuticals at reduced prices, help increase inventory turns and reduce working
capital investment.

—Inventory Management – An integrated solution comprising forecasting software and automated replenishment technologies that reduce
inventory-carrying costs.

—McKesson OneStop Generics® — Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad
selection of generic drugs, low pricing and one-stop shopping.







McKESSON CORPORATION



Independent Retail Pharmacies — Solutions for managed care
contracting, branding and advertising, merchandising, purchasing, operational efficiency and automation that help independent pharmacists focus on patient care while improving profitability. Solutions include:



—Health Mart® —Health Mart® is a national network of more than 2,900 independently-owned pharmacies and is one of the industry’s
most comprehensive pharmacy franchise programs. Health Mart® provides franchisees with managed care that drives pharmacy benefit manager recognition, branding that drives consumer recognition along with its Health Mart private label line of
products, in-store programs that drive manufacturer and payer recognition and community advocacy programs that drive industry recognition. Health Mart® helps franchisees grow their businesses by focusing on the three principles of successful
retailing:

–    Attract new customers;

–    Maximize the value of current customers; and

–    Enhance business efficiency.

—AccessHealth® — Comprehensive managed care and reconciliation assistance services that help independent pharmacies save time, access
competitive reimbursement rates and improve cash flow.

—McKesson Reimbursement AdvantageSM(“MRA”) — MRA is one of the industry’s most comprehensive reimbursement optimization packages,
comprising financial services (automated claim resubmission), analytic services and customer care.

—McKesson OneStop Generics® — described above.

—EnterpriseRx® — described above.

—Sunmark® — Complete line of more than 700 products that provide retail independent pharmacies with value-priced alternatives to national
brands.

—FrontEdge™ — Strategic planning, merchandising and price maintenance program that helps independent pharmacies maximize store
profitability.

—McKesson Home Health Care — Comprehensive line of more than 1,800 home health care products, including durable medical equipment, diabetes
supplies, self-care supplies and disposables from national brands and the Sunmark®line.

Institutional Healthcare Providers — Electronic ordering/purchasing and supply chain
management systems that help customers improve financial performance, increase operational efficiencies and deliver better patient care. Solutions include:



—McKesson Pharmacy Optimization® — An experienced group of pharmacy professionals providing consulting services and pharmacy practice
resources. McKesson Pharmacy Optimization® develops customized and quantifiable solutions that help hospitals create and sustain financial, operational and clinical results.

—Fulfill-RxSM— Ordering and inventory management system that integrates McKesson pharmaceutical distribution services with our automation solutions, thus empowering hospitals to optimize the often complicated
and disjointed processes related to unit-based cabinet replenishment and inventory management.

—Asset Management — Award-winning inventory optimization and purchasing management program that helps institutional providers lower costs while
ensuring product availability.

—SKY Packaging — Blister-format packaging containing the most widely prescribed dosages and strengths in generic oral-solid medications. SKY
Packaging enables acute care, long-term care and institutional pharmacies to provide cost-effective, uniform packaging.

—McKesson OneStop Generics® — Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that enables acute care and alternate site pharmacies to capture the
full potential of purchasing generic pharmaceuticals.

—McKesson 340B Solution Suite — Solutions that help providers manage, track and report on medication replenishment associated with the federal
340B Drug Pricing Program.

—High Performance Pharmacy® — Framework that identifies and categorizes hospital pharmacy best practices to help improve clinical outcomes
and financial results. The High Performance Pharmacy Assessment Tool enables hospital pharmacies to measure against comparable institutions and chart a step-by-step path to high performance.







McKESSON CORPORATION



McKesson Canada:McKesson Canada, a
wholly-owned subsidiary, is one of the largest pharmaceutical distributors in Canada. McKesson Canada, through its network of 16 distribution centers, provides logistics and distribution to more than 800 manufacturers – delivering their
products to retail pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care centers, clinics and institutions throughout Canada. Beyond pharmaceutical distribution, logistics and order fulfillment, McKesson Canada has automated over 2,500 retail pharmacies and is also
active in hospital automation solutions, dispensing more than 100 million doses each year. In partnership with other McKesson businesses, McKesson Canada provides a full range of services to Canadian manufacturers and healthcare providers,
contributing to the quality and safety of care for patients. On March 25, 2012, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Drug Trading Company Limited, the independent banner business of the Katz Group Canada Inc. (“Katz Group”),
and Medicine Shoppe Canada Inc., the franchise business of the Katz Group. The acquisition of the assets from the Drug Trading Company Limited consists of a marketing and purchasing arm of more than 850 independently owned pharmacies in Canada. The
acquisition of Medicine Shoppe Canada Inc. consists of the franchise business of providing services to more than 160 independent pharmacies in Canada.

Medical–Surgical Distribution:This business provides medical-surgical supply distribution, equipment, logistics and other services to healthcare providers
including physicians’ offices, surgery centers, extended care facilities, homecare and occupational health sites through a network of 28 distribution centers within the U.S. This business is a leading provider of supplies to the full range of
alternate-site healthcare facilities, including physicians’ offices, clinics and surgery centers (primary care), long-term care, occupational health facilities and homecare sites (extended care). Through a variety of technology products and
services geared towards the supply chain, our Medical-Surgical Distribution business is focused on helping its customers operate more efficiently while providing one of the industry’s most extensive product offerings, including our own private
label line. This business also includes ZEE® Medical, one of the most extensive product offerings in the industry of first aid, safety and training solutions, providing services to industrial and commercial customers. This business offers an
extensive line of products and services aimed at maximizing productivity and minimizing the liability and cost associated with workplace illnesses and injuries.

McKesson Pharmacy Systems and Automation:This business supplies integrated pharmacy
management systems, automated dispensing systems and related services to retail, outpatient, central fill, specialty and mail order pharmacies. Its primary offering is EnterpriseRx®, a Software as a Service (SaaS) pharmacy management system,
that allows large retail chain, health system, and retail independent pharmacies to meet demand for prescriptions while maximizing profits and optimizing operations. We also own a 39% interest in Parata, which sells automated pharmacy and supply
management systems and services to retail and institutional pharmacies.

McKesson
Specialty Health:This business provides solutions for oncology and other specialty practices operating in communities across the country, as well as for pharmaceutical and biotech suppliers who manufacture specialty drugs
and vaccines. Through expertise in specialty drug distribution, commercialization, revenue cycle and practice management and reimbursement support, McKesson Specialty Health allows the community patient care delivery system and facilitates
collaboration among community healthcare providers, drug manufacturers and payers. We provide direct-to-physician specialty distribution services, ensuring supply chain safety and delivery of specialty drugs in manufacturer recommended conditions.
Third party logistics, or 3PL, are offered primarily for vaccine distribution, including our exclusive distributor relationship in the Center for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) Vaccines for Children program. We also offer our
industry leading Lynx® integrated technologies, the iKnowMed

SM

Electronic Health record, and clinical and practice management tools, all of which help community practices improve inventory management, practice workflow and reimbursement processes, as well as deliver
business efficiencies and clinical-decision support. McKesson Specialty Health works with manufacturers across all phases of the product development and commercialization lifecycle, including clinical research, to optimize delivery of complex
medication to patients. Through custom distribution and safety programs, we help support appropriate product utilization, as well as the development and management of Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategies (“REMS”), reimbursement,
healthcare informatics and patient access programs, and to enable manufacturers to deliver cost effective patient access to needed therapies. McKesson Specialty Health supports The US Oncology Network and US Oncology Research. The US Oncology
Network unites one of the largest network of community oncologists in the United States, and through collaboration and shared purpose, provides the clinical, research, technology and business resources to ensure the growth and vitality of these
independent, community-based oncology practices. US Oncology Research is one of the nation’s largest research networks, specializing in Phase I – Phase IV oncology clinical trials.







McKESSON CORPORATION



Technology Solutions

Our Technology Solutions segment provides a comprehensive portfolio of software, automation, support and services to help
healthcare organizations improve quality and patient safety, reduce the cost and variability of care and better manage their resources and revenue stream. This segment also includes our InterQual® clinical criteria solution, medical management
tools, claims payment solutions, network performance tools and care management programs. Technology Solutions markets its products and services to integrated delivery networks, hospitals, physician practices, home healthcare providers, retail
pharmacies and payers. Our solutions and services are sold internationally through subsidiaries and/or distribution agreements in Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, other European countries and Israel.

The product portfolio for the Technology Solutions segment is designed to address a wide array of healthcare clinical and
business performance needs ranging from medication safety and information access to revenue cycle management, resource utilization and physician adoption of electronic health records (“EHR”). Analytics software enables organizations to
measure progress as they automate care processes for optimal clinical outcomes, business and operating results and regulatory compliance. To ensure that organizations achieve the maximum value for their information technology investment, we also
offer a wide range of services to support the implementation and use of solutions as well as assist with business and clinical redesign, process re-engineering and staffing (both information technology and back-office).

Key solution areas are as follows:

Clinical and financial management:We provide comprehensive clinical and financial
information systems for hospitals and health systems of all sizes. These systems are designed to improve the safety and quality of patient care and improve clinical, financial and operational performance. Clinical functionality includes a data
repository, care planning, physician order entry and documentation, nursing documentation with bar-coded medication administration, laboratory, radiology, pharmacy, surgical management, emergency department and ambulatory EHR systems, a Web-based
physician portal and a comprehensive solution for homecare. Revenue management solutions are designed to improve financial performance by reducing days in accounts receivable, preventing insurance claim denials, reducing costs and improving
productivity. Solutions include online patient billing, contract management, electronic claims processing and coding compliance checking. These solutions streamline patient access and help organizations to forecast financial responsibility for
constituents before and during care, allowing providers to collect their reimbursements more quickly and at a lower cost.

Enterprise imaging:In addition to document imaging to facilitate maintenance and access to complete medical records, we offer medical imaging and information management
systems for healthcare enterprises, including a picture archiving communications system, a radiology information system and a comprehensive cardiovascular information system. Our enterprise-wide approach to medical imaging enables organizations to
take advantage of specialty-specific workstations while building an integrated image repository that manages all of the images and information captured throughout the care continuum.

Performance management:Performance management solutions are designed to enhance an
organization’s ability to plan and optimize quality care delivery. Enterprise visibility and performance analytics provide business intelligence that enables providers to manage capacity, outcomes, productivity and patient flow. Workforce
management solutions assist caregivers with staffing and maintaining labor rule continuity between scheduling, time and attendance and payroll. A comprehensive supply chain management solution integrates enterprise resource planning applications,
including financials, materials, human resources/payroll, with scheduling, point of use, surgical and anesthesia services and enterprise-wide analytics.

Automation:Automation solutions include technologies that help hospitals re-engineer and improve their medication use processes. Examples include centralized pharmacy automation for dispensing
unit-dose medications, unit-based cabinet technologies for secure medication storage and rapid retrieval and an anesthesia cart for dispensing of medications in the operating room. Based on a foundation of bar-code scanning technology, these
integrated solutions are designed to reduce errors and bring new levels of safety to patients.







McKESSON CORPORATION



Physician practice solutions:We provide a
complete solution for physician practices of all sizes that includes software, revenue cycle outsourcing and connectivity services. Software solutions include practice management and EHR software for physicians of every size and specialty. Our
physician practice offering also includes outsourced billing and collection services as well as services that connect physicians with their patients, hospitals, retail pharmacies and payers. Revenue cycle outsourcing enables physician groups to
avoid the infrastructure investment and administrative costs of an in-house billing office. Services include clinical data collection, data input, medical coding, billing, contract management, cash collections, accounts receivable management and
extensive reporting of metrics related to the physician practice.

Connectivity:Through our vendor-neutral RelayHealth® and its intelligent network, the
Company provides health information exchange and revenue cycle management solutions that streamline clinical, financial and administrative communication between patients, providers, payers, pharmacies, manufacturers, government and financial
institutions. RelayHealth® helps to accelerate the delivery of high-quality care and improve financial performance through online consultation of physicians by patients, electronic prescribing by physicians, point-of-service resolution of
pharmacy claims by payers, pre-visit financial clearance of patients by providers and post-visit settlement of provider bills by payers and patients. RelayHealth® securely processes more than 16 billion financial and clinical transactions
annually.

In addition to the product offerings described above, Technology Solutions offers a comprehensive
range of services to help organizations derive greater value, enhance satisfaction and return on investment throughout the life of the solutions implemented. The range of services includes:

Technology Services:Technology services supports the smooth operation of
numerous organizations’ information systems by providing the technical infrastructure designed to maximize application accessibility, availability, security and performance.

Outsourcing Services:With these services, we help providers focus their resources on
delivering healthcare while managing their revenue cycle operations and information technology through a comprehensive suite of managed services. Services include full and partial revenue cycle outsourcing, remote hosting, managing hospital data
processing operations, payroll processing, and business office administration.

Professional
Services:Professional services help customers achieve business results from their software or automation investment. A wide array of service options is available, including consulting for business and/or clinical process
improvement and re-design as well as implementation, project management, technical and education services relating to all products in the Technology Solutions segment.

Payer Group:The following suite of services and software products is marketed to payers,
hospitals and government organizations to help manage the cost and quality of care:



—InterQual® Criteria for clinical decision support and utilization management;



—Claims payment solutions to facilitate accurate and efficient medical claim payments;



—Business intelligence tools for measuring, reporting and improving clinical and financial performance;



—Network management tools enable health plans to transform the performance of their networks;



—Disease management programs to improve the health status and health outcomes of patients with chronic conditions;



—Nurse advice services to provide health information and recommend appropriate levels of care; and



—Clinical and analytical software to support utilization, case and disease management workflows.

Business Combinations and Discontinued Operation

We have undertaken strategic initiatives in recent years designed to further focus on our core healthcare businesses and enhance our competitive position. We expect to continue to undertake such strategic
initiatives in the future. These initiatives are detailed in Financial Notes 2 and 7, “Business Combinations” and “Discontinued Operation,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







McKESSON CORPORATION



Competition

In every area of healthcare distribution operations, our Distribution Solutions segment faces strong competition, both in
price and service, from national, regional and local full-line, short-line and specialty wholesalers, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chains, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies and large payer
organizations. In addition, this segment faces competition from various other service providers and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers as well as other potential customers of the segment, which may from time-to-time decide to
develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that would otherwise be provided by the segment. Price, quality of service, innovation and, in some cases, convenience to the customer are generally the principal competitive
elements in this segment.

Our Technology Solutions segment experiences substantial competition from many
firms, including other software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, certain hospitals and hospital groups, payers, care management organizations, hardware vendors and internet-based companies with technology applicable to the
healthcare industry. Competition varies in size from small to large companies, in geographical coverage and in scope and breadth of products and services offered.

Intellectual Property

The principal
trademarks and service marks of our Distribution Solutions segment include: AccessHealth®, AccessMED®, Acumax®, Advancing Cancer Care in America®, Business of Pharmacy

SM

, BoP®, CaresRx

SM

, Central Fill

SM

, Closed Loop Distribution

SM

, Comprehensive Strategic Alliance (CSA)

SM

, Cypress

SM

, Cypress Plus®, Edwards Medical Supply®, Empowering Healthcare®, EnterpriseRx®, Expect More From
Moore

SM

, FrontEdge™, Fulfill-Rx

SM

, Heal Living Well After Cancer®, Health Mart®, Heart
Profilers & Design®, High Performance Pharmacy®, Iknowchart™, iKnowMed

SM

, Innovent®, LoyaltyScript®, Lynx®, Market Focus

SM

, Max Impact®, McKesson®, McKesson Advantage

SM

, McKesson Connect

SM

, McKesson Empowering Healthcare®, McKesson High Volume
Solutions

SM

, McKesson Max Rewards®, McKesson OneStop
Generics®, McKesson Pharmacy Central

SM

, McKesson
Pharmacy Optimization®, McKesson Priority Express
OTC

SM

, McKesson Reimbursement Advantage

SM

, McKesson Supply Manager

SM

, MediNet™, Medi-Pak®, Mobile Manager

SM

, Moore Medical®, Moorebrand®, Nexcura®, Northstarx®,
Oncology Today

SM

, Oncology Today Translating Knowledge
Into Cancer Care®, OncologyRx Care Advantage®, Onmark®, OTN®, Pharma360®, PharmacyRx™, Pharmaserv®, Radmap™, Research & Education®, RX Pak

SM

, RxOwnership®, Selectplus Oncology®, ServiceFirst

SM

, Staydry®, Sterling Medical Services®, Sunmark®, Supply Management Online

SM

, The Supply Experts®, The US Oncology Network

SM

, TrialScript®, Triangle Design®, United We Win

SM

, US Cancer Alliance

SM

, US Oncology®, Valu-Rite®, XVIII B Medi Mart®, Zee
Medical Service®, and ZEE®.

The substantial majority of technical concepts and
codes embodied in our Technology Solutions segment’s computer programs and program documentation are protected as trade secrets. The principal trademarks and service marks for this segment are: AcuDose-Rx®, ANSOS One-Staff™,
Ask-A-Nurse®, Care Fully Connected™, CareEnhance®, Connect-RN™, Connect-Rx®, CRMS™, DataStat®, ePremis®, Episode Profiler™, E-Script™, Fulfill-RxSM, HealthQuest™, Horizon Admin-Rx™, Horizon Clinicals®, Horizon Enterprise Revenue ManagementTM, HorizonWP®, InterQual®, Lytec®, MedCarousel®,
Medisoft®, ORSOS One-Call™, PACMED™, PakPlus-Rx™, Paragon®, Pathways 2000®, Patterns Profiler™, Per-Se™, Per-Se Technologies®, PerYourHealth.com®, Practice Partner®, Premis®, ProIntercept®,
ProMed®, ProPBM®, RelayHealth®, ROBOT-Rx®, SelfPace®, Series 2000™, STAR 2000™, SupplyScan™, TRENDSTAR® and WebVisit™.

We also own other registered and unregistered trademarks and service marks and similar rights used by our business
segments. Many of the principal trademarks and service marks are registered in the United States, or registrations have been applied for with respect to such marks, in addition to certain other jurisdictions. The United States federal registrations
of these trademarks have terms of ten or twenty years, depending on date of registration, and are subject to unlimited renewals. We believe that we have taken all necessary steps to preserve the registration and duration of our trademarks and
service marks, although no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully enforce or protect our rights thereunder in the event that they are subject to third-party infringement claims. We do not consider any particular patent, license,
franchise or concession to be material to our business. We also hold copyrights in, and patents related to, many of our products.







McKESSON CORPORATION



Other Information about the Business

Customers:During 2012, sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 52%
of our total consolidated revenues. Sales to our two largest customers, CVS Caremark Corporation (“CVS”) and Rite Aid Corporation (“Rite Aid”), accounted for approximately 16% and 10% of our total consolidated revenues. At
March 31, 2012, accounts receivable from our ten largest customers were approximately 49% of total accounts receivable. Accounts receivable from CVS, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (“Walmart”) and Rite Aid were approximately 17%, 10% and 9% of
total accounts receivable. We also have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers. The accounts
receivables balances are with individual members of the GPOs. Substantially all of these revenues and accounts receivable are included in our Distribution Solutions segment.

Suppliers:We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which
accounted for more than approximately 6% of our purchases in 2012. The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable. We believe that our relationships with our suppliers, on the whole, are
good. The ten largest suppliers in 2012 accounted for approximately 45% of our purchases.

A significant
portion of our distribution arrangements with the manufacturers provides us compensation based on a percentage of our purchases. In addition, we have certain distribution arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers that include an inflation-based
compensation component whereby we benefit when the manufacturers increase their prices as we sell our existing inventory at the new higher prices. For these manufacturers, a reduction in the frequency and magnitude of price increases, as well as
restrictions in the amount of inventory available to us, could have a material adverse impact on our gross profit margin.

Research and Development:Our development expenditures primarily consist of our investment in software held for sale. We spent $487 million, $471 million and
$451 million for development activities in 2012, 2011 and 2010 and of these amounts, we capitalized 10%, 14% and 17%. Development expenditures are primarily incurred by our Technology Solutions segment. Our Technology Solutions segment’s
product development efforts apply computer technology and installation methodologies to specific information processing needs of hospitals and other customers. We believe that a substantial and sustained commitment to such expenditures is important
to the long-term success of this business. Additional information regarding our development activities is included in Financial Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

Environmental Regulation:Our operations are
subject to regulations under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and
the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if in the future we were to violate or become liable under
environmental laws.

We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our
operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. We meet this commitment through an environmental strategy and sustainability program.

We sold our chemical distribution operations in 1987 and retained responsibility for certain environmental obligations.
Agreements with the Environmental Protection Agency and certain states may require environmental assessments and cleanups at several closed sites. These matters are described further in Financial Note 19, “Other Commitments and Contingent
Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.







McKESSON CORPORATION



The liability for environmental remediation and other environmental
costs is accrued when the Company considers it probable and can reasonably estimate the costs. Environmental costs and accruals, including that related to our legacy chemical distribution operations, are presently not material to our operations or
financial position. Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate
material capital expenditures for environmental matters. Other than the expected expenditures that may be required in connection with our legacy chemical distribution operations, we do not anticipate making substantial capital expenditures either
for environmental issues, or to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future. The amount of our capital expenditures for environmental compliance was not material in 2012 and is not expected to be material in the next year.

Employees:On March 31, 2012, we employed approximately 37,700 persons
compared to 36,400 and 32,500 on March 31, 2011 and 2010.

Financial Information About Foreign and
Domestic Operations:Information as to foreign and domestic operations is included in Financial Notes 1 and 22, “Significant Accounting Policies” and “Segments of Business,” to the consolidated financial statements
appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this report and the “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this report, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Some of these statements can be identified by use of forward-looking words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “may,”
“will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “plans” or “estimates,” or the negative of these words, or other comparable terminology. The discussion of financial trends,
strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or implied. Although it is
not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A of Part I of this report under “Risk Factors.” The reader should not consider the list to
be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.

These and other risks and uncertainties are
described herein and in other information contained in our publicly available SEC filings and press releases. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements were
first made. Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to
reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.



