Item 1.Business.

General

McKesson Corporation (“McKesson,” the “Company,” the “Registrant” or “we” and other similar pronouns), is a Fortune 14 corporation that delivers pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and healthcare information technology that make healthcare safer while reducing costs.

The Company’s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31.  Unless otherwise noted, all references in this document to a particular year shall mean the Company’s fiscal year.

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act,”) are available free of charge on our website (www.mckesson.comunder the “Investors — Financial Information — SEC Filings” caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or the “Commission”).  The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise.

The public may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC  20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of the website iswww.sec.gov.

Business Segments

We operate in two segments.  The McKesson Distribution Solutions segment distributes ethical and proprietary drugs and equipment and health and beauty care products throughout North America and internationally.  This segment includes our International pharmaceutical distribution and services business which reflects the results of operations from our acquisition of Celesio AG (“Celesio”) in February 2014.  This segment  provides specialty pharmaceutical solutions for biotech and pharmaceutical manufacturers, and practice management, technology, clinical support and business solutions to oncology and other specialty practices operating in the community setting.  This segment also provides medical-surgical supply distribution, equipment, logistics and other services to healthcare providers through a network of distribution centers within the U.S.  In addition, this segment sells financial, operational and clinical solutions for pharmacies (retail, hospital, alternate site) and provides consulting, outsourcing and other services.  In September 2013, we sold our 49% interest in Nadro, S.A. de C.V. (“Nadro”), a pharmaceutical distributor in Mexico.  Prior to the sale, financial results for Nadro were included in this segment.

The McKesson Technology Solutions segment includes McKesson Health Solutions, which includes our InterQual® clinical criteria solution, claims payment solutions and network performance tools.  This segment also delivers enterprise-wide clinical, patient care, financial, supply chain, strategic management software solutions, as well as connectivity, outsourcing and other services, including remote hosting and managed services, to healthcare organizations.  This segment’s customers include hospitals, physicians, homecare providers, retail pharmacies and payers primarily from North America.

Net revenues for our segments for the last three years were as follows:

Years Ended March 31,(Dollars in billions)201420132012Distribution Solutions$134.498%$119.198%$119.498%Technology Solutions3.22%3.02%2.92%Total$137.6100%$122.1100%$122.3100%








Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Distribution Solutions Segment

McKesson Distribution Solutions consists of the following businesses:  North America pharmaceutical distribution and services, International pharmaceutical distribution and services and Medical Surgical distribution and services.

North America pharmaceutical distribution and services

Our North America pharmaceutical distribution and services business is comprised of the following business units: U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution, McKesson Specialty Health, McKesson Canada, and McKesson Pharmacy Systems and Automation.

U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution:  This business supplies pharmaceuticals and/or other healthcare-related products to customers throughout the United States in three primary customer channels:  (1) retail national accounts (including national and regional chains, food/drug combinations, mail order pharmacies and mass merchandisers); (2) independent retail pharmacies; and (3) institutional healthcare providers (including hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, clinics and alternate site providers).  This business also provides solutions and services to pharmaceutical manufacturers.  This business sources materials and products from a wide-array of different suppliers, including certain generic pharmaceutical drugs produced through a contract-manufacturing program.

Our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business operates and serves thousands of customer locations through a network of 29 distribution centers, as well as a primary redistribution center, a strategic redistribution center and two repackaging facilities, serving all 50 states and Puerto Rico.  We invest in technology and other systems at all of our distribution centers to enhance safety and reliability and provide the best product availability for our customers.  For example, in most of our distribution centers we use Acumax® Plus, an award-winning technology that integrates and tracks all internal inventory-related functions such as receiving, put-away and order fulfillment.  Acumax® Plus uses bar code technology, wrist-mounted computer hardware and radio frequency signals to provide customers with real-time product availability and industry-leading order quality and fulfillment in excess of 99.9% adjusted accuracy.  In addition, we offer Mobile ManagerSM, which integrates portable handheld technology with Acumax® Plus to give customers complete ordering and inventory control.  We also offer McKesson ConnectSM, an internet-based ordering system that provides item lookup and real-time inventory availability as well as ordering, purchasing, third-party reconciliation and account management functionality.  Together, these features help ensure customers have the right products at the right time for their facilities and patients.

To maximize distribution efficiency and effectiveness, we follow the Six Sigma methodology — an analytical approach that emphasizes setting high-quality objectives, collecting data and analyzing results to a fine degree in order to improve processes, reduce costs and minimize errors.  We continue to implement information systems to help achieve greater consistency and accuracy both internally and for our customers.

The major offerings of the McKesson U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution business by customer group can be categorized as retail national accounts, institutional healthcare providers and independent retail pharmacies.

Retail National Accounts — Business solutions that help national account customers increase revenues and profitability.  Solutions include:

•Central FillSM— Prescription refill service that enables pharmacies to more quickly refill prescriptions remotely, more accurately and at a lower cost, while reducing inventory levels and improving customer service.

•Redistribution Centers — Two facilities totaling over 750,000 square feet that offer access to inventory for single source warehouse purchasing, including pharmaceuticals and biologics.  These distribution centers also provide the foundation for a two-tiered distribution network that supports best-in-class direct store delivery.

•McKesson SynerGx® — Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program and inventory management that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, low pricing and one-stop shopping.

•EnterpriseRx®  —  A Software as a Service (SaaS) pharmacy management system, that allows large retail chain, health system and retail independent pharmacies to meet demand for prescriptions while maximizing profits and optimizing operations.

•RxPakSM— Bulk-to-bottle repackaging service that leverages our purchasing scale and supplier relationships to provide pharmaceuticals at reduced prices, help increase inventory turns and reduce working capital investment.

•Inventory Management — An integrated solution comprising forecasting software and automated replenishment technologies that reduce inventory-carrying costs.

•ExpressRx Track™ — Pharmacy automation solution featuring state-of-the-art robotics, upgraded imaging and expanded vial capabilities, and industry-leading speed and accuracy in a radically small footprint.

•Supplylogix® — develops and delivers practical supply chain intelligence solutions for pharmacy and related businesses and services a wide array of healthcare providers nationwide.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Institutional Healthcare Providers — Electronic ordering/purchasing and supply chain management systems that help customers improve financial performance, increase operational efficiencies and deliver better patient care.  Solutions include:



•Fulfill-RxSM— Ordering and inventory management system that empowers hospitals to optimize the often complicated and disjointed processes related to unit-based cabinet replenishment and inventory management.

•Asset Management — Award-winning inventory optimization and purchasing management program that helps institutional providers lower costs while ensuring product availability.

•SKY Packaging — Blister-format packaging containing the most widely prescribed dosages and strengths in generic oral-solid medications.  SKY Packaging enables acute care, long-term care and institutional pharmacies to provide cost-effective, uniform packaging.

•McKesson Plasma and BioLogics — A full portfolio of plasma-derivatives and biologic products.

•McKesson OneStop Generics® — Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, low pricing and one-stop shopping.

•McKesson 340B Solution Suite and Macro Helix® — Solutions that help providers manage, track and report on medication replenishment associated with the federal 340B Drug Pricing Program.

Independent Retail Pharmacies — Solutions for managed care contracting, branding and advertising, merchandising, purchasing, operational efficiency and automation that help independent pharmacists focus on patient care while improving profitability.  Solutions include:

•Health Mart® — Health Mart® is a national network of more than 3,000 independently-owned pharmacies and is one of the industry’s most comprehensive pharmacy franchise programs.  Health Mart® provides franchisees support for managed care contracting, branding and local marketing solutions, the Health Mart private label line of products, merchandising solutions and programs for enhanced patient support.

•AccessHealth® — Comprehensive managed care and reconciliation assistance services that help independent pharmacies save time, access competitive reimbursement rates and improve cash flow.

•McKesson Reimbursement AdvantageSM(“MRA”) — MRA is one of the industry’s most comprehensive reimbursement optimization packages, comprising financial services (automated claim resubmission), analytic services and customer care.

•McKesson OneStop Generics® — described above.

•EnterpriseRx® — described above.

•Sunmark® — Complete line of more than 700 products that provide retail independent pharmacies with value-priced alternatives to national brands.

•FrontEdge™ — Strategic planning, merchandising and price maintenance program that helps independent pharmacies maximize store profitability.

•McKesson Sponsored Clinical Services (SCS) Network — Access to patient-support services that allow pharmacists to earn service fees and develop stronger patient relationships.

McKesson Specialty Health:






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We also offer our industry leading iKnowMedSMand iKnowMedGeneration 2Electronic Health Record, Lynx® integrated technologies, and clinical and practice management tools, all of which help community practices achieve better business health-improving inventory management and practice workflow and reimbursement processes, as well as delivering business efficiencies and clinical-decision support.  McKesson Specialty Health works with manufacturers across all phases of the product development and commercialization lifecycle, including clinical research, to optimize delivery of complex medication to patients.  Through custom distribution and safety programs, we help support appropriate product utilization, as well as the development and management of Risk Evaluation Mitigation Strategies reimbursement, healthcare informatics and patient access programs, and we enable manufacturers to deliver cost effective patient access to needed therapies.  McKesson Specialty Health supports The US Oncology Network and US Oncology Research.  The US Oncology Network is one of the nation’s largest networks of community-based oncology physicians dedicated to advancing high-quality, evidence-based cancer care.  US Oncology Research is one of the nation’s largest research networks, specializing in Phase I — Phase IV oncology clinical trials.

McKesson Canada:McKesson Canada is one of the largest pharmaceutical distributors in Canada.  McKesson Canada, through its network of 16 distribution centers, provides logistics and distribution to more than 800 manufacturers —  delivering their products to retail pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care centers, clinics and institutions throughout Canada.  Beyond pharmaceutical distribution, logistics and order fulfillment, McKesson Canada also provides automation solutions to its retail and hospital customers, dispensing millions of doses each year.  In partnership with other McKesson businesses, McKesson Canada provides a full range of services to Canadian manufacturers and healthcare providers, contributing to the quality and safety of care for patients.  In March 2012, we  acquired substantially all of the assets of Drug Trading Company Limited, the independent banner business of the Katz Group Canada Inc. (“Katz Group”), and Medicine Shoppe Canada Inc., the franchise business of the Katz Group.  The acquisition of the assets from the Drug Trading Company Limited consisted of a marketing and purchasing arm of independently owned pharmacies in Canada.  The acquisition of Medicine Shoppe Canada Inc. consisted of the franchise business of providing services to independent pharmacies in Canada.

McKesson Pharmacy Systems and Automation:This business supplies integrated pharmacy management systems, automated dispensing systems and related services to retail, outpatient, central fill, specialty and mail order pharmacies.  Its primary approach is to provide the customer with a pharmacy management system that best suits the particular needs of their business operation.  This objective is achieved by offering three pharmacy management products:  EnterpriseRx®, an industry-leading, Software as a Service or SaaS-based management system that intelligently integrates all workflow and communication processes within the pharmacy environment; Pharmaserv®, a fully integrated, server-based pharmacy management system that gives the customer complete control of their pharmacy data; and PharmacyRx, a cost-effective, SaaS-based pharmacy management system that can be installed quickly and makes processing prescriptions fast and easy.  These offerings allow large retail chain, hospital outpatient pharmacies and small and independent pharmacies to meet the high demand for prescriptions while maximizing profits and optimizing operations.  We also own a 39% interest in Parata Systems, LLC (“Parata”), which sells automated pharmacy and supply management systems and services to retail and institutional pharmacies.

International pharmaceutical distribution and services

On February 6, 2014, we completed the acquisition of 77.6% of the then outstanding common shares of Celesio and certain convertible bonds of Celesio for cash consideration of$4.5 billion, net of cash acquired.  Upon the acquisition, our ownership of Celesio’s fully diluted common shares was 75.6% and, as required, we consolidated Celesio’s debt with a fair value of$2.3 billionas a liability on our consolidated balance sheet.  At March 31, 2014, we owned approximately75.4%of Celesio’s outstanding and fully diluted common shares.  Celesio is an international wholesale and retail company and a provider of logistics and services to the pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors.  Celesio’s headquarters is in Stuttgart, Germany and it operates in 14 countries around the world.

Celesio’s pharmaceutical wholesale business supplies pharmaceuticals and other healthcare-related products generally to retail pharmacies and institutional customers. Celesio’s wholesale network consisting of 133 branches delivers to over 65,000 pharmacies daily in ten European countries and Brazil. Celesio functions as a vital link between manufacturers and pharmacies in supplying pharmaceuticals to patients, and generally procures the medicines approved in each country as well as other products sold in pharmacies directly from the manufacturers.  Celesio stores pharmaceutical and other products at regional wholesale branches with the support of its efficient warehousing management system.  With a refined distribution system, Celesio strives to ensure rapid and reliable delivery directly to its pharmacy customers.

Celesio’s retail pharmacy business serves patients and consumers in six European countries directly through 2,175 of its own pharmacies and almost 4,300 participant pharmacies operating under brand partnership arrangements.  Celesio provides non-prescription products and medical services in addition to traditional prescription pharmaceuticals. Celesio operates under the Lloyds Pharmacy brand in the United Kingdom, which accounted for approximately 66% of the total volume of Celesio’s retail pharmacy business for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2013.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Medical-Surgical distribution and services

This business provides medical-surgical supply distribution, equipment, logistics and other services to healthcare providers including physicians’ offices, surgery centers, extended care facilities, homecare and occupational health sites through a network of distribution centers within the U.S.  This business is a leading provider of supplies to the full range of alternate-site healthcare facilities, including physicians’ offices, clinics and surgery centers (primary care), long-term care and homecare sites (extended care).  Through a variety of products and services geared towards the supply chain, our Medical-Surgical Distribution business is focused on helping its customers operate more efficiently while providing one of the industry’s most extensive product offerings, including our own private label line.  In February 2013, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of PSS World Medical, Inc. (“PSS World Medical”) of Jacksonville, Florida.  The unified organization brings extensive distribution capabilities, deep product and technology expertise and a broad portfolio of business services to an expanding industry, helping our customers improve efficiency and productivity, and deliver better care.

Technology Solutions Segment

Our Technology Solutions segment provides a comprehensive portfolio of software and services to help healthcare organizations improve quality and patient safety, reduce the cost and variability of care and better manage their resources and revenue stream.  This segment also includes our InterQual® clinical criteria solution, claims payment processing solutions and network performance tools.  The Technology Solutions segment markets its products and services to integrated delivery networks, hospitals, physician practices, home healthcare providers, retail pharmacies and payers.

The product portfolio for the Technology Solutions segment is designed to address a wide array of healthcare clinical and business performance needs ranging from medication safety and information access to revenue cycle management, resource utilization and physician adoption of electronic health records (“EHR”).  Analytics software enables organizations to measure progress as they automate care processes for optimal clinical outcomes, business and operating results and regulatory compliance.  To ensure that organizations achieve the maximum value for their information technology investment, we also offer a wide range of services to support the implementation and use of solutions as well as assist with business and clinical redesign, process re-engineering and staffing (both information technology and back-office).

Technology Solutions consists of the following businesses:  McKesson Health Solutions, Connected Care and Analytics, Imaging and Workflow Solutions, Business Performance Services and Enterprise Information Solutions.  In the first quarter of 2014, we committed to a plan to sell our Hospital Automation and International Technology businesses and as a result, these businesses, which had previously been included in our Technology Solutions segment, are reported as discontinued operations.  During the third quarter of 2014, we sold our Hospital Automation business.

McKesson Health Solutions:This suite of services and software products is designed to manage the cost and quality of care for payers, providers, hospitals and government organizations.  Solution sets include:

•InterQual® Criteria for clinical decision support and utilization management;

•Claims payment solutions to facilitate accurate and efficient medical claim payments;

•Business intelligence tools for measuring, reporting and improving clinical and financial performance;

•Network management tools to enable health plans to transform the performance of their networks; and

•RelayHealth® financial solutions to facilitate communication between healthcare providers and patients, and to aggregate data for claims management and trend analysis, and optimize revenue cycle management processes.

Connected Care and Analytics:  Through our vendor-neutral RelayHealth® and its intelligent network, the Company provides health information exchange solutions that streamline clinical and administrative communication between patients, providers, payers, pharmacies, manufacturers, government entities and financial institutions.  RelayHealth® helps to accelerate the delivery of high-quality care and improve financial performance through online consultation of physicians by patients, electronic prescribing by physicians, and point-of-service resolution of pharmacy claims by payers.  We provide disease management programs to improve the health status and health outcomes of patients with chronic conditions, nurse advice services to provide health information and recommend appropriate levels of care, and clinical and analytical software to support utilization, case and disease management workflows and a comprehensive solution for homecare.  We also provide performance management solutions designed to enhance an organization’s ability to plan and optimize quality care delivery. Enterprise visibility and performance analytics provide business intelligence that enables providers to manage capacity, outcomes, productivity and patient flow.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Imaging and Workflow Solutions:We offer medical imaging and information management systems for healthcare enterprises, including a picture archiving communications system, a radiology information system and a comprehensive cardiovascular information system.  Our enterprise-wide approach to medical imaging enables organizations to take advantage of specialty-specific workstations while building an integrated image repository that manages all of the images and information captured throughout the care continuum.

Business Performance Services:We help providers focus their resources on delivering healthcare while managing their revenue cycle operations and information technology through a comprehensive suite of managed services.  Services include full and partial revenue cycle outsourcing, remote hosting and business office administration.  We also provide a complete solution for physician practices of all sizes, whether they are independent or employed, that includes software, revenue cycle outsourcing and connectivity services.  Software solutions include practice management and EHR software for physicians of every size and specialty.  Our physician practice offering includes outsourced billing, collection, data input, medical coding, billing, contract management, cash collections, accounts receivable management and extensive reporting of metrics related to the physician practice.  We also offer a full suite of physician and hospital consulting services, including financial management, coding and compliance services, revenue cycle services and strategic services.

Enterprise Information Solutions:

Business Combinations, Sale of an Equity Investment and Discontinued Operations

We have undertaken additional strategic initiatives in recent years designed to further focus on our core healthcare businesses and enhance our competitive position.  We expect to continue to undertake such strategic initiatives in the future.  Our Celesio acquisition and these additional initiatives are detailed in Financial Notes 2, 3 and 5, “Business Combinations,” “Discontinued Operations” and “Impairment and Sale of an Equity Investment,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

In every area of healthcare distribution operations, our Distribution Solutions segment faces a highly competitive global environment with strong competition, both in price and service, from international, national, regional and local full-line, short-line and specialty wholesalers, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chains, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies and large payer organizations.  In addition, this segment faces competition from various other service providers and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers as well as other potential customers of the segment, which may from time-to-time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that would otherwise be provided by the segment.  Price, quality of service, innovation and, in some cases, convenience to the customer are generally the principal competitive elements in this segment.

Our Technology Solutions segment experiences substantial competition from many firms, including other software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, certain hospitals and hospital groups, payers, care management organizations, hardware vendors and internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry.  Competition varies in size from small to large companies, in geographical coverage and in scope and breadth of products and services offered.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses

McKesson and its subsidiaries hold patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets related to McKesson products and services.  We pursue patent protection for our innovation, and obtain copyrights covering our original works of authorship, when such protection is advantageous.  Through these efforts, we have developed a portfolio of patents and copyrights in the U.S. and worldwide.  In addition, we have registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries.  Generally, our employees are required to execute agreements that prohibit the disclosure of confidential information and establish an obligation to assign to McKesson intellectual property that they create during their employment.

We believe that, in the aggregate, McKesson’s confidential information, patents, copyrights, and trademarks are important to its operations and market position, but we do not consider any of our businesses to be dependent upon any one patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, or any family or families of the same.  We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property portfolio will be sufficient to deter misappropriation, theft, or misuse of our technology, nor that we can successfully enjoin infringers.  We periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third party patents and other intellectual property rights.  These claims may result in McKesson entering settlement agreements, paying damages, discontinuing use or sale of accused products, or ceasing other activities.  While the outcome of any litigation or dispute is inherently uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these infringement notices would have a material adverse impact on our results of operation.

We hold inbound licenses for certain intellectual property that is used internally, and in some cases, utilized in McKesson’s products or services.  While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our operations and products and services are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with any third party.

Other Information about the Business

Customers:During2014, sales to our ten largest customers accounted for approximately48%of our total consolidated revenues.  Sales to our largest customer,CVS Caremark Corporation ("CVS"), accounted for approximately16%of our total consolidated revenues.  AtMarch 31, 2014, trade accounts receivable from our ten largest customers were approximately32%of total trade accounts receivable.  Accounts receivable fromCVSwere approximately12%of total trade accounts receivable.  We also have agreements with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”), each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers.  The accounts receivables balances are with individual members of the GPOs.  Substantially all of these revenues and accounts receivable are included in our Distribution Solutions segment.

Suppliers:We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which accounted for more than approximately6%of our purchases in2014.  The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable.  We believe that our relationships with our suppliers, on the whole, are good.  The ten largest suppliers in2014accounted for approximately46%of our purchases.

A significant portion of our distribution arrangements with the manufacturers provides us compensation based on a percentage of our purchases.  In addition, we have certain distribution arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers that include an inflation-based compensation component whereby we benefit when the manufacturers increase their prices as we sell our existing inventory at the new higher prices.  For these manufacturers, a reduction in the frequency and magnitude of price increases, as well as restrictions in the amount of inventory available to us, could have a material adverse impact on our gross profit margin.

Research and Development:Research and development costs were $456 million, $433 million and $402 million during2014,2013and2012.  These costs do not include $40 million, $49 million and $47 million of costs capitalized for software held for sale during2014,2013and2012.  Development expenditures are primarily incurred by our Technology Solutions segment.  Our Technology Solutions segment’s product development efforts apply computer technology and installation methodologies to specific information processing needs of hospitals and other customers.  We believe that a substantial and sustained commitment to such expenditures is important to the long-term success of this business.  Additional information regarding our development activities is included in Financial Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Environmental Regulation:Our operations are subject to regulations under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites.  We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if in the future we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business.  We meet this commitment through an environmental strategy and sustainability program.

We sold our chemical distribution operations in 1987 and retained responsibility for certain environmental obligations.  Agreements with the Environmental Protection Agency and certain states may require environmental assessments and cleanups at several closed sites.  These matters are described further in Financial Note 22, “Other Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when the Company considers it probable and can reasonably estimate the costs.  Environmental costs and accruals, including that related to our legacy chemical distribution operations, are presently not material to our operations or financial position.  Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental matters.  Other than the expected expenditures that may be required in connection with our legacy chemical distribution operations, we do not anticipate making substantial capital expenditures either for environmental issues, or to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future.  The amount of our capital expenditures for environmental compliance was not material in2014and is not expected to be material in the next year.

Employees:On March 31,2014, we employed approximately 42,800 persons and Celesio employed approximately 28,600 persons.  We employed approximately 43,500 and 37,700 on March 31,2013and2012.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations:Information as to foreign and domestic operations is included in Financial Notes 1 and 25, “Significant Accounting Policies” and “Segments of Business,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this report and the “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this report, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Some of these statements can be identified by use of forward-looking words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “plans” or “estimates,” or the negative of these words, or other comparable terminology.  The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or implied.  Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A of Part I of this report under “Risk Factors.”  The reader should not consider the list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.

These and other risks and uncertainties are described herein and in other information contained in our publicly available SEC filings and press releases.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements were first made.  Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.








Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



