Item 1.Business.

General

McKesson Corporation (“McKesson,” the “Company,” the “Registrant” or “we” and other similar pronouns) is a global pharmaceutical distribution services and information technology company, currently ranked 11th on the Fortune 500.  We deliver a comprehensive offering of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies and provide services to help our customers improve the efficiency and effectiveness of their healthcare operations.  We work with payers, healthcare providers, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and others across the healthcare industry to improve patients’ access to high-quality care and make healthcare safer while enhancing efficiency and reducing costs.

The Company’s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31.  Unless otherwise noted, all references in this document to a particular year shall mean the Company’s fiscal year.

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act,”) are available free of charge on our website (www.mckesson.comunder the “Investors — Financial Information — SEC Filings” caption) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or the “Commission”).  The content on any website referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this report, unless expressly noted otherwise.

The public may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC  20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The address of the website iswww.sec.gov.

Business Segments

We operate our business through two segments: McKesson Distribution Solutions and McKesson Technology Solutions.

Our Distribution Solutions segment distributes branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs and other healthcare-related products worldwide and provides practice management, technology, clinical support and business solutions to community-based oncology and other specialty practices.  This segment also provides specialty pharmaceutical solutions for pharmaceutical manufacturers including offering multiple distribution channels and clinical trial access to our network of oncology physicians.  It also provides medical-surgical supply distribution, equipment, logistics and other services to healthcare providers within the United States.  Additionally, this segment operates retail pharmacies in Europe and supports independent pharmacy networks within North America.  It also sells financial, operational and clinical solutions to pharmacies (retail, hospital, alternate site) and provides consulting, outsourcing and other services.

The Technology Solutions segment delivers enterprise-wide clinical, patient care, financial, supply chain and strategic management technology solutions, as well as connectivity, outsourcing and other services, including remote hosting and managed services, to healthcare organizations.

Net revenues for our segments for the last three years were as follows:

Years Ended March 31,(Dollars in billions)201620152014Distribution Solutions$188.098%$176.098%$134.198%Technology Solutions2.923.123.32Total$190.9100%$179.1100%$137.4100%






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Distribution Solutions Segment

Our Distribution Solutions segment consists of the following businesses:  North America pharmaceutical distribution and services, International pharmaceutical distribution and services and Medical-Surgical distribution and services.

North America pharmaceutical distribution and services

Our North America pharmaceutical distribution and services business is comprised of the following business units: U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution, McKesson Specialty Health, McKesson Canada, and McKesson Pharmacy Technology & Services.

U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution:  This business supplies branded, specialty and generic pharmaceuticals and other healthcare-related products to customers throughout the United States in three primary customer channels:  (1) retail national accounts (including national and regional chains, food/drug combinations, mail order pharmacies and mass merchandisers); (2) independent retail pharmacies; and (3) institutional healthcare providers (including hospitals, health systems, integrated delivery networks, clinics and alternate site providers).  This business also provides solutions and services to pharmaceutical manufacturers.  This business sources materials and products from a wide-array of different suppliers, including certain generic pharmaceutical drugs produced through a contract-manufacturing program.

Our U.S. pharmaceutical distribution business operates and serves thousands of customer locations through a network of 31 distribution centers, as well as a primary redistribution center, a strategic redistribution center and two repackaging facilities, serving all 50 states and Puerto Rico.  We invest in technology and other systems at all of our distribution centers to enhance safety and reliability and to provide the best product availability for our customers.  For example, in most of our distribution centers we use Acumax® Plus, an award-winning technology that integrates and tracks all internal inventory-related functions such as receiving, put-away and order fulfillment.  Acumax® Plus uses bar code technology, wrist-mounted computer hardware and radio frequency signals to provide customers with real-time product availability and industry-leading order quality and fulfillment in excess of 99.9% adjusted accuracy.  In addition, we offer Mobile ManagerSM, which integrates portable handheld technology with Acumax® Plus to give customers complete ordering and inventory control.  We also offer McKesson ConnectSM, an internet-based ordering system that provides item lookup and real-time inventory availability as well as ordering, purchasing, third-party reconciliation and account management functionality.  Together, these features help ensure customers have the right products at the right time for their facilities and patients.

To maximize distribution efficiency and effectiveness, we follow the Six Sigma methodology — an analytical approach that emphasizes setting high-quality objectives, collecting data and analyzing results to a fine degree in order to improve processes, reduce costs and minimize errors.  We continue to implement information systems to help achieve greater consistency and accuracy both internally and for our customers.

The major customer groups of our U.S. Pharmaceutical Distribution business can be categorized as retail national accounts, independent retail pharmacies and institutional healthcare providers.

Retail National Accounts — Business solutions that help national account customers increase revenues and profitability.  Solutions include:

•Central FillSM— Prescription refill service that enables pharmacies to more quickly refill prescriptions remotely, more accurately and at a lower cost, while reducing inventory levels and improving customer service.

•Redistribution Centers — Two facilities totaling over 750,000 square feet that offer access to inventory for single source warehouse purchasing, including pharmaceuticals and biologics.  These distribution centers also provide the foundation for a two-tiered distribution network that supports best-in-class direct store delivery.

•McKesson SynerGx® — Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program and inventory management that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing and one-stop shopping.

•RxPakSM— Bulk-to-bottle repackaging service that leverages our purchasing scale and supplier relationships to provide pharmaceuticals at reduced prices, help increase inventory turns and reduce working capital investment.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



•Inventory Management — An integrated solution comprising forecasting software and automated replenishment technologies that reduce inventory-carrying costs.

•ExpressRx Track™ — Pharmacy automation solution featuring state-of-the-art robotics, upgraded imaging and expanded vial capabilities, and industry-leading speed and accuracy in a radically small footprint.

Independent Retail Pharmacies — Solutions for managed care contracting, branding and advertising, merchandising, purchasing, operational efficiency and automation that help independent pharmacists focus on patient care while improving profitability.  Solutions include:

•Health Mart® — Health Mart® is a national network of more than 4,600 independently-owned pharmacies and is one of the industry’s most comprehensive pharmacy franchise programs.  Health Mart® provides franchisees support for managed care contracting, branding and local marketing solutions, the Health Mart private label line of products, merchandising solutions and programs for enhanced patient support.

•AccessHealth® — Comprehensive managed care and reconciliation assistance services that help independent pharmacies save time, access competitive reimbursement rates and improve cash flow.

•McKesson Reimbursement AdvantageSM(“MRA”) — MRA is one of the industry’s most comprehensive reimbursement optimization packages, comprising financial services (automated claim resubmission), analytic services and customer care.

•McKesson OneStop Generics® — Generic pharmaceutical purchasing program that helps pharmacies maximize their cost savings with a broad selection of generic drugs, competitive pricing and one-stop shopping.

•Sunmark® — Complete line of more than 600 products that provide retail independent pharmacies with value-priced alternatives to national brands.

•FrontEdge™ — Strategic planning, merchandising and price maintenance program that helps independent pharmacies maximize store profitability.

•McKesson Sponsored Clinical Services (SCS) Network — Access to patient-support services that allow pharmacists to earn service fees and to develop stronger patient relationships.

Institutional Healthcare Providers — Electronic ordering/purchasing and supply chain management systems that help customers improve financial performance, increase operational efficiencies and deliver better patient care.  Solutions include:

•Fulfill-RxSM— Ordering and inventory management system that empowers hospitals to optimize the often complicated and disjointed processes related to unit-based cabinet replenishment and inventory management.

•Asset Management — Award-winning inventory optimization and purchasing management program that helps institutional providers lower costs while ensuring product availability.

•SKY Packaging — Blister-format packaging containing the most widely prescribed dosages and strengths in generic oral-solid medications.  SKY Packaging enables acute care, long-term care and institutional pharmacies to provide cost-effective, uniform packaging.

•McKesson Plasma and BioLogics — A full portfolio of plasma-derivatives and biologic products.

•McKesson OneStop Generics® — Described above.

McKesson Specialty Health (“MSH”):This business provides a range of solutions to oncology and other specialty practices operating in communities across the country, to pharmaceutical and biotechnology suppliers who manufacture specialty drugs and vaccines, and to payers and hospitals. MSH is focused on three core business lines: Manufacturer Solutions, Practice Management and Provider Solutions.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Manufacturer Solutions help manufacturers accelerate the approval and successful commercialization of specialty pharmaceuticals across the product life cycle.  MSH’s offerings include supply chain services, including specialty pharmacy services and third party logistics (“3PL”), provider and patient engagement programs, clinical trial support, patient assistance programs, reimbursement services, and analytics.  In addition, MSH helps manufacturers minimize reimbursement challenges while offering affordable, safe access to therapies through Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (“REMS”) programs.

In April 2016, we completed the acquisition of Biologics, Inc (“Biologics”), a Cary, North Carolina-based company that provides oncology pharmacy services to providers and patients as well as solutions for manufacturers and payers.  For manufacturers, Biologics helps optimize speed-to-therapy, enhance patient adherence and improve patient access to therapy.  In addition, Biologics works with manufacturers to develop custom strategies to enhance the clinical and commercial success of their products at each stage of the life-cycle.

Practice Management provides a variety of solutions, including practice operations, healthcare information technology, revenue cycle management and managed care contracting solutions, evidence-based guidelines and quality measurements to support The U.S. Oncology Network, one of the nation’s largest network of integrated, community-based oncology practices dedicated to advancing high-quality, evidence-based cancer care.  We also support U.S. Oncology Research, one of the nation’s largest research networks, specializing in oncology clinical trials.

In April 2016, we also completed the acquisition of Vantage Oncology Holdings LLC (“Vantage”), a leading national provider of integrated oncology and radiation services headquartered in Manhattan Beach, California.  Vantage’s comprehensive oncology management services model, including its focus on community-based radiation oncology, medical oncology, and other integrated cancer care services, complements and strengthens the existing offerings of McKesson and The US Oncology Network, while allowing patients to access the care they need in an efficient and cost effective way.

Provider Solutions offers community specialists (oncologists, rheumatologists, ophthalmologists, urologists, neurologists, and other specialists) an extensive set of customizable products and services designed to strengthen core practice operations, enhance value-based care delivery, and expand their service offering to patients.  Tools and services include specialty drug distribution and group purchasing organization (“GPO”) services, technology solutions, practice consulting services, and vaccine distribution, including our exclusive distributor relationship with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (“CDC”) Vaccines for Children program. Community-based physicians in this business line have broad flexibility and choice to select the products and commitment levels that best meet their practice needs.

When we classify a pharmaceutical product or service as “specialty,” we consider the following factors: diseases requiring complex treatment regimens such as cancer and rheumatoid arthritis; ongoing clinical monitoring requirements, high-cost, special handling, storage and delivery requirements and, in some cases, exclusive distribution arrangements.  Our use of the term “specialty” to define a portion of our distribution business may not be comparable to that used by other industry participants, including our competitors.

McKesson Canada:McKesson Canada is one of the largest pharmaceutical distributors in Canada.  McKesson Canada, through its network of 14 distribution centers, provides logistics and distribution for manufacturers - delivering their products to retail pharmacies, hospitals, long-term care centers, clinics and institutions throughout Canada and through its network of infusion clinics, offers specialty services and adherence programs.  Beyond pharmaceutical distribution, logistics and order fulfillment, McKesson Canada provides automation solutions to its retail and hospital customers, dispensing millions of doses each year.  McKesson Canada also provides health information exchange solutions that streamline clinical and administrative communication and retail banner services that help independent pharmacists compete and grow through innovative services and operation support.  In partnership with other McKesson businesses, McKesson Canada provides a full range of services to Canadian manufacturers and healthcare providers, contributing to the quality and safety of care for patients.

In March 2016, we entered into an agreement to purchase Rexall Health from Katz Group for$3 billionCanadian dollars (or, approximately$2.3 billionU.S. dollars using the currency exchange ratio of0.77Canadian dollar to1U.S. dollar as of March 31, 2016).  Rexall Health, which operates approximately470retail pharmacies in Canada, particularly in Ontario and Western Canada, will enhance our Canadian pharmaceutical supply chain. The acquisition is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close during the second half of calendar year 2016.








Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



McKesson Pharmacy Technology & Services:This business provides offerings that allow large retail chains, hospital outpatient pharmacies and small and independent pharmacies to meet the high demand for prescriptions while maximizing profits and optimizing operations.  It supplies integrated pharmacy management systems, automated dispensing systems and related services to retail, outpatient, central fill, specialty and mail order pharmacies.  Solutions include:

•EnterpriseRx® — A Software as a Service (SaaS) pharmacy management system, that allows large retail chain, health system and retail independent pharmacies to meet demand for prescriptions while maximizing profits and optimizing operations.

•Pharmaserv® — A fully integrated, server-based pharmacy management system that gives the customer complete control of their pharmacy data.

•PharmacyRx — A cost-effective, SaaS-based pharmacy management system that can be installed quickly and makes processing prescriptions fast and easy.

•McKesson 340B Solution Suite and Macro Helix® — Software as a Service (SaaS)-based solutions that help providers manage, track and report on medication replenishment associated with the federal 340B Drug Pricing Program.

•Supplylogix® — Develops and delivers practical supply chain intelligence solutions to pharmacy and related businesses and provides a wide array of services to healthcare providers nationwide.

International pharmaceutical distribution and services

Our international pharmaceutical distribution and services business provides distribution and services to the pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors primarily in Europe.  The pharmaceutical wholesale business supplies pharmaceuticals and other healthcare-related products generally to retail pharmacies and institutional customers.  Its wholesale network consists of approximately 109 branches that deliver to over 65,000 pharmacies daily in ten European countries.  This business functions as a vital link between manufacturers and pharmacies in supplying pharmaceuticals to patients, and generally procures the pharmaceuticals approved in each country as well as other products sold in pharmacies directly from the manufacturers.  Pharmaceutical and other healthcare-related products are stored at regional wholesale branches with the support of its efficient warehousing management system.  The retail pharmacy business serves patients and consumers in six European countries directly through over 2,200 of its own pharmacies and over 4,500 participant pharmacies operating under brand partnership arrangements.  The retail business provides traditional prescription pharmaceuticals, non-prescription products and medical services and operates under the Lloyds Pharmacy brand in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), which accounted for approximately 71% of the total volume of the retail pharmacy business for the year ended March 31, 2016.

In April 2016, we completed the acquisition of the pharmaceutical distribution business of UDG Healthcare Plc (“UDG”) based in Ireland and the U.K. for$412 million.  The acquired UDG business primarily provides pharmaceutical and other healthcare products to retail and hospital pharmacies. We also expect to complete the acquisition of the pharmacy business of J Sainsbury Plc (“Sainsbury”) based in the U.K. during the first quarter of 2017. Once completed, these acquisitions will further enhance our retail pharmacy service capabilities in Ireland and the U.K.

In 2015, we committed to a plan to sell our Brazilian pharmaceutical distribution business, which we acquired through our February 2014 acquisition.  The sale is expected to close during the first half of 2017.  Refer to Financial Note 9, “Discontinued Operations”, to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Medical-Surgical distribution and services

This business provides medical-surgical supply distribution, equipment, logistics and other services to healthcare providers including physicians’ offices, surgery centers, extended care facilities, homecare and occupational health sites through a network of distribution centers within the U.S.  This business is a leading distributor of supplies to the full range of alternate-site healthcare facilities, including physicians’ offices, clinics and surgery centers (primary care), long-term care and homecare sites (extended care).  Through a variety of products and services geared towards the supply chain, our Medical-Surgical Distribution business is focused on helping its customers operate more efficiently while providing one of the industry’s most extensive product offerings, including our own private label line.








Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Technology Solutions Segment

Our Technology Solutions segment provides a comprehensive portfolio of information technology and services to help healthcare organizations improve quality of care and ensure patient safety, reduce the cost and variability of care and better manage their resources and revenue stream.  The Technology Solutions segment markets its products and services to integrated delivery networks, hospitals, physician practices, home healthcare providers, retail pharmacies and payers.

The product portfolio for the Technology Solutions segment is designed to address a wide array of healthcare clinical and business performance needs ranging from medication safety and information access to revenue cycle management, resource utilization and physician adoption of electronic health records (“EHR”).  Analytics software enables organizations to measure progress as they automate care processes for optimal clinical outcomes, business and operating results and regulatory compliance.  To ensure that organizations achieve the maximum value for their information technology investment, we also offer a wide range of services to support the implementation and use of solutions as well as to assist with business and clinical redesign, process re-engineering and staffing (both information technology and back-office).

Our Technology Solutions segment consists of the following businesses:  McKesson Health Solutions, Connected Care and Analytics (“CCA”), Imaging and Workflow Solutions, Business Performance Services and Enterprise Information Solutions.

McKesson Health Solutions:We offer a suite of services and software products designed to manage the cost and quality of care for payers, providers, hospitals and government organizations.  Solutions include:

•InterQual® Criteria for clinical decision support and utilization management;

•Clear CoverageTMfor point-of-care utilization management, coverage determination and network compliance;

•Claims payment solutions to facilitate accurate and efficient medical claim payments;

•Business intelligence tools for measuring, reporting and improving clinical and financial performance;

•Network management tools to enable health plans to transform the performance of their networks; and

•RelayHealth® financial solutions to facilitate communication between healthcare providers and patients, and to aggregate data for claims management and trend analysis, and optimize revenue cycle management processes.

Connected Care and Analytics:  We provide health information exchange solutions that streamline clinical and administrative communication among patients, providers, payers, pharmacies, manufacturers, government entities and financial institutions through our vendor-neutral RelayHealth® and its intelligent network, RelayHealth® pharmacy solutions which help our customers to accelerate the delivery of high-quality care and improve financial performance through online consultation of physicians by patients, electronic prescribing by physicians, and point-of-service resolution of pharmacy claims by payers.  We provide clinical and analytical software to support management workflows and analytics for optimization of hospital departments and a comprehensive solution for homecare.  We also provide performance management solutions designed to enhance an organization’s ability to plan and optimize quality care delivery. Enterprise visibility and performance analytics provide business intelligence that enables providers to manage capacity, outcomes, productivity and patient flow.

Imaging and Workflow Solutions:We offer medical imaging and information management systems for healthcare enterprises, including a picture archiving communications system, a radiology information system and a comprehensive cardiovascular information system.  Our enterprise-wide approach to medical imaging enables organizations to take advantage of specialty-specific workstations while building an integrated image repository that manages all of the images and information captured throughout the care continuum.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



Business Performance Services:We help providers focus their resources on delivering healthcare while managing their revenue cycle operations and information technology through a comprehensive suite of managed services.  Services include full and partial revenue cycle outsourcing, remote hosting and business office administration.  We also provide a complete solution for physician practices of all sizes, whether they are independent or employed, that includes software, revenue cycle outsourcing and connectivity services.  Software solutions include practice management and EHR software for physicians of every size and specialty.  Our physician practice offering includes outsourced billing, collection, data input, medical coding, billing, contract management, cash collections, accounts receivable management and extensive reporting of metrics related to the physician practice.  We also offer a full suite of physician and hospital consulting services, including financial management, coding and compliance services, revenue cycle services and strategic services.

Enterprise Information Solutions:We provide comprehensive clinical and financial information systems for hospitals and health systems of all sizes.  These systems are designed to improve the safety and quality of patient care and improve clinical, financial and operational performance.  We also provide professional services to help customers achieve business results from their software or automation investment.  In addition, workflow management solutions assist caregivers with staffing and maintaining labor rule continuity between scheduling, time and attendance and payroll.  We also offer a comprehensive supply chain management solution that integrates enterprise resource planning applications, including financials, materials, human resources/payroll, scheduling, point of use, surgical and anesthesia services and enterprise-wide analytics.

Business Combinations, Discontinued Operations and Other Divestitures

We have undertaken additional strategic initiatives in recent years designed to further focus on our core healthcare businesses and enhance our competitive position.  We expect to continue to undertake such strategic initiatives in the future.  These initiatives are detailed in Financial Notes 2, 5, and 9 “Business Combinations,” “Divestiture of Businesses,” and “Discontinued Operations,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

Our Distribution Solutions segment faces a highly competitive global environment with strong competition from international, national, regional and local full-line, short-line and specialty distributors, service merchandisers, self-warehousing chain drug stores, manufacturers engaged in direct distribution, third-party logistics companies and large payer organizations.  In addition, this segment faces competition from various other service providers and from pharmaceutical and other healthcare manufacturers as well as other potential customers of the segment, which may from time-to-time decide to develop, for their own internal needs, supply management capabilities that would otherwise be provided by the segment.  In all areas, key competitive factors include price, quality of service, breadth of product lines, innovation and, in some cases, convenience to the customer.

Our Technology Solutions segment experiences substantial competition from many companies, including other software services firms, consulting firms, shared service vendors, certain hospitals and hospital groups, payers, care management organizations, hardware vendors and internet-based companies with technology applicable to the healthcare industry.  Competition varies in size from small to large companies, in geographical coverage and in scope and breadth of products and services offered.

Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Licenses

McKesson and its subsidiaries hold patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets related to McKesson products and services.  We pursue patent protection for our innovation, and obtain copyrights covering our original works of authorship, when such protection is advantageous.  Through these efforts, we have developed a portfolio of patents and copyrights in the U.S. and worldwide.  In addition, we have registered or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in foreign countries.

We believe that, in the aggregate, McKesson’s confidential information, patents, copyrights, and trademarks are important to its operations and market position, but we do not consider any of our businesses to be dependent upon any one patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret, or any family or families of the same.  We cannot guarantee that our intellectual property portfolio will be sufficient to deter misappropriation, theft, or misuse of our technology, nor that we can successfully enjoin infringers.  We periodically receive notices alleging that our products or services infringe on third party patents and other intellectual property rights.  These claims may result in McKesson entering settlement agreements, paying damages, discontinuing use or sale of accused products, or ceasing other activities.  While the outcome of any litigation or dispute is inherently uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these infringement notices would have a material adverse impact on our results of operation.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



We hold inbound licenses for certain intellectual property that is used internally, and in some cases, utilized in McKesson’s products or services.  While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our operations and products and services are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with any third party.

Other Information about the Business

Customers:During2016, sales to ourtenlargest customers, including group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) accounted for approximately52.4%of our total consolidated revenues.  Sales to our largest customer, CVS Health (“CVS”), accounted for approximately20.3%of our total consolidated revenues.  At March 31,2016, trade accounts receivable from ourtenlargest customers were approximately32%of total trade accounts receivable.  Accounts receivable fromCVSwere approximately18%of total trade accounts receivable.  We also have agreements with GPOs, each of which functions as a purchasing agent on behalf of member hospitals, pharmacies and other healthcare providers, as well as with government entities and agencies.  The accounts receivables balances are with individual members of the GPOs, and therefore no significant concentration of credit risk exists.  Substantially all of these revenues and accounts receivable are included in our Distribution Solutions segment.

Suppliers:We obtain pharmaceutical and other products from manufacturers, none of which accounted for more than 6% of our purchases in2016.  The loss of a supplier could adversely affect our business if alternate sources of supply are unavailable.  We believe that our relationships with our suppliers, as a whole, are good.  The ten largest suppliers in2016accounted for approximately 44% of our purchases.

A significant portion of our distribution arrangements with the manufacturers provides us compensation based on a percentage of our purchases.  In addition, we have certain distribution arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers that include an inflation-based compensation component whereby we benefit when the manufacturers increase their prices as we sell our existing inventory at the new higher prices.  For these manufacturers, a reduction in the frequency and magnitude of price increases, as well as restrictions in the amount of inventory available to us, could have a material adverse impact on our gross profit margin.

Research and Development:Research and development costs were$392 million,$392 millionand$457 millionduring2016,2015and2014.  These costs do not include$30 million,$34 millionand$40 millionof costs capitalized for software held for sale during2016,2015and2014.  Development expenditures are primarily incurred by our Technology Solutions segment.  Our Technology Solutions segment’s product development efforts apply computer technology and installation methodologies to specific information processing needs of hospitals and other customers.  We believe that a substantial and sustained commitment to such expenditures is important to the long-term success of this business.  Additional information regarding our development activities is included in Financial Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Environmental Regulation:Our operations are subject to regulations under various federal, state, local and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites.  We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if in the future we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws.

We are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business.  We meet this commitment through an environmental strategy and sustainability program.

We sold our chemical distribution operations in 1987 and retained responsibility for certain environmental obligations.  Agreements with the Environmental Protection Agency and certain states may require environmental assessments and cleanups at several closed sites.  These matters are described further in Financial Note 24, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.






Table of ContentsMcKESSON CORPORATION



The liability for environmental remediation and other environmental costs is accrued when the Company considers it probable and can reasonably estimate the costs.  Environmental costs and accruals, including that related to our legacy chemical distribution operations, are presently not material to our operations or financial position.  Although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations or products will not have a material adverse impact on our operations or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental matters.  Other than the expected expenditures that may be required in connection with our legacy chemical distribution operations, we do not anticipate making substantial capital expenditures either for environmental issues, or to comply with environmental laws and regulations in the future.  The amount of our capital expenditures for environmental compliance was not material in2016and is not expected to be material in the next year.

Employees:On March 31,2016, we employed approximately 68,000 full-time equivalent employees.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations:Certain financial information relating to foreign and domestic operations is included in Financial Note 27, “Segments of Business,” to the consolidated financial statements appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A below for information regarding risks associated with our foreign operations.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of Part II of this report and the “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this report, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Some of these statements can be identified by use of forward-looking words such as “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “plans” or “estimates,” or the negative of these words, or other comparable terminology.  The discussion of financial trends, strategy, plans or intentions may also include forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated, or implied.  Although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed in Item 1A of Part I of this report under “Risk Factors.”  The reader should not consider the list to be a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.

These and other risks and uncertainties are described herein and in other information contained in our publicly available SEC filings and press releases.  Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date such statements were first made.  Except to the extent required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to publicly release the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.



