Item 1A. Risk Factors.



Risks Related to our Business



We may incur substantial costs related to product and service-related liabilities.Many of our software, health care devices, technology-enabled services or other services (collectively referred to as "Solutions and Services") are intended for use in collecting, storing and displaying clinical and health care-related information used in the diagnosis and treatment of patients and in related health care settings such as registration, scheduling and billing. We attempt to limit by contract our liability; however, the limitations of liability set forth in the contracts may not be enforceable or otherwise protect us from liability, and we may also be subject to claims that are not covered by contract. Although we maintain liability insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover any claim, prove to be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. A successful material claim or series of claims against us, if uninsured or under-insured, could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Product and service-related claims, even if not successful, could damage our reputation, result in the loss of existing or potential clients, divert management's attention, result in significant revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and increase insurance and other operational costs.



We may be subject to claims for system errors and warranties.



We may experience interruptions at our data centers or client support facilities, which could interrupt clients' access to their data, exposing us to significant costs and reputational harm.















If our IT security is breached, or if the IT security of third parties on which we rely is breached, we could be subject to increased expenses, exposure to legal claims and regulatory actions, and clients and prospective clients could be deterred from using our Solutions and Services

.



The costs we would incur to address and remediate these security incidents would increase our expenses. Our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential clients that may impede our sales, development of solutions, provision of services or other critical functions. If a cyber-attack or other security incident were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our clients' or suppliers' data, our own data or our IT systems, or if our Solutions or Services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities, we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation. This in turn could lead to fewer clients using our Solutions and Services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. These types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims and increased legal liability, including regulatory actions by state and federal government authorities and non-US authorities and, in some cases, contractual costs related to notification and fraud monitoring of impacted persons. Although we maintain cyber risk insurance, there can be no assurance that such coverage will cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our IT systems or those of third parties on which we rely, prove to be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all.



Our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights of others, or our intellectual property rights may be infringed or misappropriated by others or our software may be subject to claims related to open source software licenses

.

We rely upon a combination of confidentiality practices and policies, license agreements, confidentiality provisions in employment agreements, confidentiality agreements with third parties and technical security measures to maintain the confidentiality and trade secrecy of our proprietary information. We also rely on trademark, copyright and patent laws to protect our intellectual property rights in the U.S. and abroad. Despite these efforts, we may not be able to adequately protect against theft, copying, reverse engineering, misappropriation, infringement or unauthorized use or disclosure of our intellectual property, which could have an adverse effect on our competitive position.



In addition, we are occasionally involved in intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims. These claims, even if unmeritorious, are expensive to defend and are often incapable of prompt resolution. If we become liable to third parties for infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award, develop alternative technology, obtain a license or cease using, selling, offering for sale, licensing, implementing or supporting the applicable Solutions and Services. We rely upon open source software in our Solutions and Services. We may encounter claims from third parties alleging unauthorized use of the software purported to be licensed under open source terms, demanding release of derivative works of open source software that could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source licenses. These claims could result in litigation and, even if unmeritorious, could be expensive to defend and incapable of prompt resolution. We could also be required to make our software source code available under the applicable open source license, utilize or develop alternative technology, or cease using, selling or supporting the applicable Solutions and Services if we are unsuccessful in defending such claims

.



We may be subject to claims or become involved in legal proceedings that could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and our inability or failure to effectively manage publicity related to such claims or legal proceedings could adversely impact our business.From time to time and in the ordinary course of our business, we may become involved in various legal proceedings and claims, including for example, employment disputes such as harassment or discrimination claims, and litigation; disputes and litigation alleging solution











We are subject to risks associated with our global operations.We market, sell and support our Solutions and Services globally. We have established offices around the world, including in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. As part of our ongoing portfolio management, we periodically evaluate entering into new markets and adjusting our focus in certain existing markets. Significant management attention and financial resources could be required to address the risks noted below associated with new market entry into non-U.S. markets and potential disruptions if we chose to adjust our focus in a given market. In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local partners. There is a risk that we may sometimes choose the wrong partner. For these and other reasons, we may not be able to maintain or increase non-U.S. market demand for our Solutions and Services.



Non-U.S. operations are subject to inherent risks, and our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These include, but are not limited to:



•Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods;

•Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing non-U.S. operations;

•The impact of global economic and political market conditions;

•Effects of sovereign debt conditions, including budgetary constraints;

•Unfavorable or volatile foreign currency exchange rates;

•Legal compliance costs or business risks associated with our global operations where: i) local laws and customs differ from, or are more stringent than those in the U.S., such as those relating to data protection and data security, or ii) risk is heightened with respect to laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including without limitation the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act and similar laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions;

•Certification (e.g. CE marking for medical device software), licensing or regulatory requirements and unexpected changes to those requirements;

•Changes to or reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries;

•Potentially adverse tax consequences as a result of changes in tax laws or otherwise, and difficulties associated with repatriating cash generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner;

•Different or additional functionality requirements or preferences;

•Trade protection measures;

•Export control regulations;

•Health service provider or government spending patterns or government-imposed austerity measures;

•Natural disasters, war or terrorist acts;

•Labor disruptions that may occur in a country;

•Political unrest which may impact sales or threaten the safety of associates or our continued presence in these countries and the related potential impact on global stability; and

•Our reliance on certain partners, which help us to offer our Solutions and Services at scale, whose reputation may not be regarded as highly outside the U.S.



Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially affect our financial results.Our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars. In general, the functional currency of our subsidiaries is the local currency where the subsidiary operates. For each subsidiary, assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet dates and revenues and expenses are translated at the average









exchange rates prevailing during the month of the transaction. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies affect our revenues, net earnings and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Future fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, could materially affect our financial results.



We are subject to tax legislation in numerous countries; changes in tax laws or challenges to our tax positions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.We are a global corporation with a presence in more than 35 countries. As such, we are subject to tax laws, regulations and policies of the U.S. federal, state and local governments and comparable taxing authorities in other country jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws could cause us to experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rates in future periods and otherwise adversely affect our tax positions and our tax liabilities. Our effective tax rates, tax payments, tax credits or incentives could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws.



In addition, U.S. federal, state and local, as well as other countries' tax laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations and require significant judgment in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Longstanding international tax norms that determine each country's jurisdiction to tax cross-border international trade are evolving as a result of the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting reporting requirements ("BEPS") recommended by the G-20 and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD"). During 2018, the European Commission issued proposals and the OECD issued an interim report related to the taxation of the digital economy. During 2019, the OECD released a public consultation paper and a Programme of Work to achieve a consensus-based solution to address tax challenges of the digital economy. The Programme of Work was endorsed by the G-20. As these and other tax laws and related regulations change, our financial results could be materially impacted. Given the unpredictability of these possible changes and their potential interdependency, it is very difficult to assess the overall effect of such potential tax changes, but such changes could adversely impact our financial results.



In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations which could be subject to challenge by tax authorities. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities and those authorities often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. Our intercompany transfer pricing has been reviewed by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. There can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge, which could result in additional taxation, penalties and interest payments.



The departure of the United Kingdom (UK) from the European Union (EU) could adversely affect our financial results.Negotiations surrounding the UK's withdrawal of its membership from the EU, which is commonly referred to as "Brexit," are continuing, and the specifics of any such departure remain uncertain. We have operations in the UK and the EU, and as a result, we face risks associated with the potential uncertainty and disruptions that may follow Brexit, including with respect to volatility in exchange rates and interest rates and potential material changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in the UK. Brexit could adversely affect European or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global political institutions, regulatory agencies and financial markets. For example, depending on the terms of Brexit, the UK could also lose access to the single EU market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the EU on behalf of its members. Disruptions and uncertainty caused by Brexit may also cause our clients to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget on our Solutions and Services. Any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Our success depends upon the recruitment and retention of key personnel.









and expertise, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition, and could potentially inhibit development and delivery of our Solutions and Services and market share advances.



We depend on strategic relationships and third party suppliers and our revenue and operating earnings could suffer if we fail to manage these relationships properly.To be successful, we must continue to maintain our existing strategic relationships and establish additional strategic relationships as necessary with leaders in the markets in which we operate. As we decide to partner rather than directly provide certain Solutions and Services,we will become more dependent on these strategic relationships to meet our clients' needs. We believe that these relationships contribute to our ability to further build our brand, extend the reach of our Solutions and Services, develop and deploy new products and services, and generate additional revenues and cash flows. The loss of a critical strategic relationship or failure to establish additional relationships, or the failure to realize anticipated synergies and benefits of these strategic relationships, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



We license or purchase certain intellectual property and technology (such as software, services, hardware and content) from third parties, including some competitors, and depend on such intellectual property and technology in the operation and delivery of our Solutions and Services. Additionally, we sell or license third party intellectual property and technology in conjunction with our Solutions and Services. For instance, we currently depend on Amazon Web Services, Microsoft, Cloudera, Oracle, VMWare and IBM technologies for portions of the operational capabilities of, among others, ourMillenniumandHealtheIntentsolutions. Our remote hosting and cloud services businesses also rely on a limited number of software and services suppliers for certain functions of these businesses, such as Oracle, NetApp, Microsoft, Veritas, CITRIX, GTT and Equinix. Additionally, we rely on Dell/EMC, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, Cisco, NetApp, IBM and others for our hardware technology platforms.





We intend to continue strategic business acquisitions and to make strategic investments, which are subject to inherent risks.











Volatility and disruption resulting from global economic or market conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our business, results of operations, financial condition and outlook may be impacted by the health of the global economy. Our business and financial performance, including new business bookings and collection of our accounts receivable, may be adversely affected by current and future economic conditions (including a disruption or reduction in the availability of capital or credit, higher energy costs, rising interest rates, financial market volatility and lower than expected economic growth) that cause a slowdown or decline in client spending. Reduced purchases by our clients or changes in payment terms could adversely affect our revenue growth and cause a decrease in our cash flow from operations. Bankruptcies or similar events affecting clients may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Further, volatility and disruption in global financial markets may also limit our ability to access the capital markets at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. Accordingly, if global financial and economic volatility continues or worsens, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.



We operate in intensely competitive and dynamic industries, and our ability to successfully compete and continue to grow our business depends on our ability to anticipate or respond quickly to market changes, changing technologies and evolving pricing and deployment methods and to bring competitive new Solutions and Services and features to market in a timely fashion.

The market for our Solutions and Services is intensely competitive, dynamically evolving and subject to rapid technological advances and innovative enhancements, changing delivery and pricing models, evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, and changing and increasingly sophisticated client needs. Development of new proprietary Solutions or Services is complex, entails significant time and expense, may not be successful and often involves a long return on investment cycle. We cannot guarantee that the market for our Solutions and Services will continue to grow or that we will be able to successfully introduce new Solutions or Services. We provide solutions to clients via various deployment models, including client-server-based solutions and cloud-based offerings. As we move more of our offerings to the cloud, we may incur disruption as we transition existing clients and be less competitive during the transition, which could impact revenue and profitability. We believe we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position; and oftentimes, successful investments require several years before generating significant revenue.



In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, highly capitalized consumer technology companies, large information technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies and others operating in the health care industry may offer competitive Solutions and Services. As we continue to develop new Solutions and Services to address areas such as analytics, machine learning ("ML"), artificial intelligence ("AI"), value-based care, consumer solutions, population health management and other health network solutions, we expect to face new competitors, and these competitors may have more experience in these markets, better brand recognition or more established relationships with prospective clients. We face strong competition and often face downward price pressure, which could adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. For example, some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy, commit to large deployments at prices that are unprofitable, or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. If we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in use of our Solutions and Services or changes in client demand, our revenues could decrease.



Our success also depends on our ability to maintain and expand our business with our existing clients and effectively transition existing clients to current Solutions and Services, as well as attracting additional clients. Certain clients originally purchased one or a limited number of our Solutions and Services. These clients may choose not to expand their use of or purchase new Solutions and Services. Failure to retain and generate additional business from our current clients could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there are a limited number of hospitals and other health care providers in the U.S. market, and the health care industry has been subject to increasing consolidation, which can cause fewer new footprint opportunities or lead to the replacement of our Solutions and Services in existing clients if the acquiror (or the group being acquired) has a relationship with a different HCIT provider. If we are unable to adapt to the impact of industry consolidation, falling costs and technological advancements in a timely manner, our prospects and financial results could be negatively affected.



If we are unable to manage our growth in the new markets in which we offer Solutions and Services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Our future financial results will depend on our ability to profitably manage our business in the new markets that we enter. We expect to pursue growth and expansion opportunities in the areas of analytics, ML, AI, value-based care, consumer solutions, population health and other health network solutions. To achieve success in those areas, we will need to, among other things, recruit, train, retain and effectively manage associates, manage changing business conditions and implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting









systems for offerings in those areas. Difficulties in managing future growth in new markets could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Long sales cycles for our Solutions and Services could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations.Some of our Solutions and Services have long sales cycles, ranging from several months to eighteen months or more beginning at initial contact with the client through execution of a contract. Implementing, replacing, or expanding an information system, or modifying, adding or outsourcing business processes, are major decisions for health care organizations. Many of the Solutions and Services we provide require a substantial capital investment and time commitments by the client or prospective client. Any decision by our clients or prospective clients to delay a purchasing decision could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.



Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment.Our clients include national, provincial, state, local and foreign governmental entities and their agencies. Our government work carries various risks inherent in contracting with such government entities and agencies. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following:



•Government entities, particularly in the U.S., often reserve the right to audit our contracts and conduct reviews, inquiries and investigations of our business practices and performance with respect to government contracts. Negative findings from audits, reviews, inquiries or investigations could affect our future sales and profitability by preventing us, by operation of law or in practice, from receiving new government contracts for some period of time.



•If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities during its audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties, including those under the civil U.S. False Claims Act, and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, suspension of payments, fines and civil money penalties, and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities.



•U.S. government contracting regulations impose strict compliance and disclosure obligations. Disclosure is required if certain company personnel have knowledge of "credible evidence" of a violation of federal criminal or civil laws involving fraud, conflict of interest, bribery or improper gratuity, a violation of the civil U.S. False Claims Act or receipt of an overpayment from the government. Failure to make required disclosures could be a basis for suspension or debarment, or both, from federal government contracting in addition to breach of the specific contract and could also impact contracting beyond the U.S. federal level. Reported matters also could lead to audits or investigations and other civil, criminal or administrative sanctions.



•Government contracts are subject to heightened reputational and contractual risks compared to contracts with commercial clients. Government contracts often involve more extensive scrutiny and publicity. For example, the United States House Veterans' Affairs Subcommittee on Technology Modernization has oversight and investigative jurisdiction of the VA's Electronic Health Record Modernization ("EHRM") program. The Subcommittee has requested Cerner to participate in several oversight hearings. Negative publicity, including allegations of improper or illegal activity, poor contract performance, or information security breaches, regardless of accuracy, may adversely affect our reputation.



•Terms and conditions of government contracts also tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate. We must comply with specific procurement regulations and a variety of other socio-economic requirements, as well as various statutes, regulations and requirements related to employment practices, recordkeeping and accounting. These regulations and requirements affect how we transact business with our clients and suppliers, and in some instances, involve additional costs.



•Government entities typically fund projects through appropriated monies. Government entities, however, reserve the right to change the scope of or terminate these projects at their convenience for lack of approved funding or other reasons. Changes in government or political developments, including budget deficits, shortfalls or uncertainties, government spending reductions (e.g., U.S. Congressional sequestration of funds under the Budget Control Act of 2011) or other debt constraints could result in our projects being reduced in price or scope or terminated altogether, which also could limit our recovery of reimbursable expenses. If insufficient funding is appropriated to the government entity to cover termination costs, we also may not be able to fully recover our investments.











•Our failure to comply with a variety of complex procurement rules and regulations could result in our liability for penalties, including termination of our government contracts, disqualification from bidding on future government contracts and suspension or debarment from government contracting. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of government contracts (e.g., the Federal Acquisition Regulation and supplements, the Truth in Negotiations Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, and the Civil False Claims Act), which affect how we do business with our customers and may impose added costs on our business.



•Government contracts may be protested. These protests could result in administrative procedures and litigation, result in delays in performance and payment, be expensive to defend and be incapable of prompt resolution. Loss of a bid protest may result in loss of the award, contract modification, expense or delay.



•It is common in contracting with governments for there to be a prime contractor with privity of contract to the government client and one or more subcontractors. We serve in both capacities for different government clients. For example, we are a subcontractor to Leidos, Inc. under the MHS Genesis contract with the U.S. Department of Defense, and we are the prime contractor under the EHRM contract with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. There are inherent risks in being a subcontractor, including without limitation, reliance on the performance of the prime contractor for the execution of the contract to the satisfaction of the client and other risks in government contracting as described in the bullets above. If the prime contractor fails to perform under the agreement, fails or delays in issuing an order to us or in paying us for the Solutions and Services rendered, or is debarred or otherwise restricted from contracting with the government client, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, when we serve as the prime contractor, we rely on our subcontractors to fulfill certain contractual obligations under our agreements with government clients. Any failure on the part of the subcontractors to perform under our subcontracts with them could subject us to negative reputational or contractual risk.



The occurrences or conditions described above could affect not only our business with the particular government entities involved, but also our business with other entities of the same or other governmental bodies or with certain commercial clients and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness.As of December 28, 2019, we had $1.03 billion of long-term debt outstanding, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. We have customary restrictive covenants in our current debt agreements, which may limit our flexibility to operate our business. Thesecovenants include limitations on priority debt, liens, mergers, asset dispositions, and transactions with affiliates, and require us to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.



The interest rates under our financing agreements and the interest rate swap related to the outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Agreement may be adversely impactedby thephase-out of London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR")as a benchmark reference for short-term interest rates.LIBOR is scheduled to be phased out by the end of 2021. When LIBOR ceases to exist, we will need to agree upon a replacement index with the lenders under our outstanding indebtedness at the time, and such new rates may not be as favorable to us as those in effect prior to any LIBOR phase-out. With respect to our Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (as amended, the "Credit Agreement") and the related interest rate swap, if the swap and the Credit Agreement replacement rates are not identical, our hedge could be less effective. Our failure to manage these risks effectively could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.



Goodwill and other intangible assets represent approximately 18% of our total assets and we could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges.We assess our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment periodically in accordance with applicable authoritative accounting guidance. Declines in business performance or other factors could result in a non-cash impairment charge. This could materially and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.























Risks Related to our Industries



The health care industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences, which could impact the purchasing practices and operations of our clients and increase our costs to deliver Solutions and Services that enable our clients to meet their compliance requirements.Many health care providers are consolidating to create integrated health care delivery systems with greater market power. These providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our Solutions and Services. As the health care industry consolidates, our client base could be consolidated with fewer buyers, competition for clients could become more intense and the importance of maintaining and acquiring new client relationships becomes greater.



The last five years have been quite active legislatively with major statutes such as the Protecting Access to Medicare Act (PAMA) of 2014 establishing requirements for "Appropriate Use Criteria" in ordering high dollar diagnostic imaging services, the Medicare and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 which reformed how physicians are paid under Medicare and which established the Merit-based Incentive Payment System (MIPS); the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016 (Cures Act), which laid the groundwork for a nationwide trusted health information exchange, established interoperability requirements for providers, payers and consumers, and set the framework for information blocking regulations; and most recently the Substance Use Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities (SUPPORT) Act of 2018 that includes significant policies for addressing the opioid crisis. These statutes are heavily laden with provisions that directly call for or describe roles for the use of health information technology to help providers comply with new federal requirements under Medicare and state Medicaid programs.





The health care industry is highly regulated, and thus, we are subject to several laws, regulations and industry initiatives, non-compliance with certain of which could materially adversely affect our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.As a participant in the health care industry, our operations and relationships, and those of our clients, are regulated by several U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities. The impact of these regulations on us is both direct, to the extent that we are ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and also indirect, in terms of government program requirements applicable to our clients for the use of HCIT. Even though we may not be directly regulated by specific health care laws and regulations, our Solutions and









Services must be capable of being used by our clients in a way that complies with those laws and regulations. There are a significant and wide-ranging number of regulations both within the U.S. and abroad, such as regulations in the areas of health care fraud, information blocking, e-prescribing, claims processing and transmission, health care devices, the security and privacy of patient data and interoperability standards, that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our clients. Specific risks include, but are not limited to, the following:



Health Care Fraud.



Preparation, Transmission, Submission and Collection of Medical Claims for Reimbursement.



Regulation of Health Care Devices. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") has determined that certain of our Solutions and Services are medical devices that are actively regulated under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("Act") and amendments to the Act. Other countries have similar regulations in place related to medical devices, that now or may in the future apply to certain of our Solutions and Services. If other of our Solutions and Services are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in countries where we do business, we could be subject to extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing activities including pre-market notification clearance. Complying with these medical device regulations globally is time consuming and expensive and could be subject to unanticipated and significant delays. Further, it is possible that these regulatory agencies may become more active in regulating software and devices that are used in health care. If we are unable to obtain the required regulatory approvals for any such Solutions and Services, our short- and long-term business plans for these Solutions and Services could be delayed or canceled.



There have been nine FDA inspections at various Cerner sites since 2003. Inspections conducted at our Headquarters Campus, Realization Campus and Innovations Campus in 2010 and 2017 each resulted in the issuance of an FDA Form 483 observation to which we responded promptly. The FDA has taken no further action with respect to either of the Form









483 observations that were issued in 2010 and 2017. The remaining FDA inspections, including inspections at our campuses in 2006, 2007 and 2014, resulted in no issuance of a Form 483. We remain subject to periodic FDA inspections and we could be required to undertake additional actions to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to manufacture, distribute and deliver our Solutions and Services. The FDA has many enforcement tools including recalls, device corrections, seizures, injunctions, refusal to grant pre-market clearance of products, civil fines and criminal prosecutions. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



Security and Privacy. U.S. federal, state and local and foreign laws regulate the confidentiality of personal information, how that information may be used, and the circumstances under which such information may be released. These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential personal and patient medical record information and require the users of such information to implement specified security and privacy measures. U.S. regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. Laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions are also evolving and may have similar or even stricter requirements related to the treatment of personal or patient information.



Data protection regulations impact how businesses, including both us and our clients, can collect and process the personal data of individuals. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and policies, or modifications thereto, that are applicable to us may limit the use and adoption of our Solutions and Services and could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we incur development, resource, and capital costs in delivering, updating, and supporting Solutions and Services to enable our clients to comply with these varying and evolving standards. Governmental enforcement personnel have substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived violations. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws or regulations or fail to deliver compliant Solutions and Services, we could be subject to civil penalties, sanctions and contract liability. Enforcement investigations, even if meritless, could have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients or limit our ability to attract new clients.



In the U.S., HIPAA regulations apply national standards for some types of electronic health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions to ensure the integrity, security and confidentiality of health information and standards to protect the privacy of individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include health care organizations such as our clients, our employer clinic business and our claims processing, transmission and submission services, are required to comply with HIPAA privacy standards, transaction regulations and security regulations.



Evolving HIPAA and HITECH-related laws and regulations in the U.S. and data privacy and security laws and regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This could adversely affect demand for our Solutions and Services if they are not re-designed in a timely manner to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified health care transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, software development and other resources to modify our Solutions and Services to address these evolving data security and privacy issues. Furthermore, our failure to maintain confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to claims, fines and penalties. U.S. state data breach notification laws continue to expand the type of personal information they encompass, such as health and insurance information, and in many cases are more burdensome than the HIPAA/HITECH breach reporting requirements.













The GDPR impacts how businesses, including both us and our clients, can collect and process the personal data of EU individuals. We have incurred development costs in delivering Solutions and Services as we update our Solutions and Services to enable our European clients to comply with these varying and evolving standards. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and policies, or modifications thereto, that are applicable to us may limit the use and adoption of our Solutions and Services and could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.



The GDPR grants broad enforcement powers to regulatory agencies to investigate and enforce our compliance with their data privacy and security requirements. Governmental enforcement personnel, particularly in the EU, have substantial powers and remedies to pursue suspected or perceived violations. If we fail to comply with any applicable laws or regulations or fail to deliver compliant Solutions and Services, we could be subject to civil penalties, sanctions or contract liability. Enforcement investigations, even if meritless, could have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose existing clients or limit our ability to attract new clients.



Development and adoption of ML and AI technologies offer the potential to significantly improve the delivery of healthcare. The application of ML and AI technologies to personal and patient information may be regulated under some privacy laws (e.g. GDPR). Furthermore, the lack of standards for measuring the accuracy and effectiveness of ML and AI can raise new or exacerbate existing technological, legal or other challenges that could impact our reputation and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.



Interoperability Standards



Federal Requirements for Certified Health Information Technology



We have completed certification efforts to meet current CEHRT requirements that became mandatory for certain Federal programs on January 1, 2019, and for many others that became mandatory during 2019. We will continue to address additional











Risks Related to Our Common Stock



Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could adversely affect our stock price.



Revenue recognized in any quarter may depend upon our or our clients' abilities to meet project milestones. Delays in meeting these milestone conditions or modification of the project plan could result in a shift of revenue recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter. We may also experience seasonality in revenues. For example, our revenues historically have been lower in the first quarter of the year and greater in the fourth quarter of the year, primarily as a result of clients' year-end efforts to make final capital expenditures for the then-current year. These seasonal variations may lead to fluctuations in our annual and quarterly revenues and operating results.



Our sales forecasts may vary from actual sales in a particular quarter.



The trading price of our common stock may be volatile.The market for our common stock may experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors including actual or anticipated variations in operating results,









articles or rumors about our performance or Solutions and Services, announcements of technological innovations or new services or products by our competitors or us, changes in expectations of future financial performance or estimates of securities analysts, governmental regulatory action, health care reform measures, client relationship developments, economic conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the markets for software, health care devices, other health care solutions and services and information technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. As a matter of policy, we do not generally comment on our stock price or rumors.



We might not be successful in achieving expected operating efficiencies and sustaining or improving operating expense reductions, and might experience business disruptions and adverse tax consequences associated with restructuring, realignment and costs reduction activities.Our Board of Directors has implemented and plans to continue to implement several restructuring and realignment initiatives to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. There can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of these initiatives. For example, as part of our ongoing portfolio management, we may decide to divest assets or businesses. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. We may also experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth could be larger than projected.



Our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement and cost reduction. If we are unable to deliver on these goals, while continuing to invest in business growth, or if the volume and nature of change overwhelms available resources, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. Our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. Any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute organizational change, cost-cutting initiatives and productivity improvement plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, inability to attract or retain key personnel, attrition beyond any planned reduction in workforce, and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our ability to achieve our other strategic goals and business plans might be adversely affected and we could experience business disruptions with clients and elsewhere if our restructuring and realignment efforts and our cost reduction activities prove ineffective.



Lower than expected revenue growth or shifts in our revenue mix could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our revenue growth and mix could vary over time due to a number of factors, including timing of contracts signing, changes

in the health of our end markets, unexpected client attrition, and the mix of software, hardware, devices, maintenance, support and services revenues, which carry different margin rates which can vary from period to period. Our operating results could be harmed by changes in revenue mix and costs, together with numerous other factors, including rapid growth in lower margin services business, declines in software, and growth in non-cash expenses, such as amortization and depreciation. Any one of these factors or the cumulative effects of certain of these factors may result in significant fluctuations in our results of operations. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet internal expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our shares could decline.



We cannot guarantee that our capital allocation strategy, which may include share repurchases and dividend payments, will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term shareholder value.In fiscal year 2019, our Board of Directors approved an amendment to our stock repurchase program, increasing the total authorized purchase program to $3.70 billion, in the aggregate. As of December 28, 2019, the total available for repurchase under the amended program was $1.68 billion. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. Additionally, during fiscal year 2019, we commenced a quarterly cash dividend program. While we expect to pay a cash dividend on a quarterly basis, future declarations of such quarterly cash dividends are subject to approval by the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors' determination that the declaration of dividends are in the best interests of Cerner and its shareholders. Either or both of our repurchase or dividend programs may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term shareholder value.



Our business could be negatively affected as a result of any future proxy fight or the actions of activist shareholders.Proxy contests or related activist activities could adversely affect our business for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the fact that responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist shareholders can be costly and time-consuming and can create perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and governance that may result in the loss of potential business opportunities and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, business partners,









customers and others important to our success. Any future proxy contest or activist activities could also cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility. Further, if a proxy contest or a related settlement results in a change in the composition of our Board of Directors it could, in certain circumstances, give third parties certain rights under our existing contractual obligations, which could adversely affect our business.



Our Directors have authority to issue preferred stock and our corporate governance documents contain anti-takeover provisions.Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future and issuances of preferred stock could be used to delay or hinder a change of control of the Company.



In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or otherwise effect a change of control of the Company. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, require advance notice of stockholder proposals at stockholder meetings, prohibit shareholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of shareholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control.



Risks Relating to Forward-looking Statements





Market and Industry Data



This annual report on Form 10-K may contain market, industry and government data and forecasts that have been obtained from publicly available information, various industry publications and other published industry sources. We have not independently verified the information and cannot make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of such information. None of the reports and other materials of third party sources referred to in this annual report on Form 10-K were prepared for use in, or in connection with, this annual report.







