Item 1A.  Risk Factors

Risks Related to Cerner Corporation

We may incur substantial costs related to product-related liabilities.

We may be subject to claims for system errors and warranties.

Cerner

We may experience interruption at our data centers or client support facilities.





our ability to obtain new clients,
result in significant revenue loss, create potential liabilities for our clients and us and
increase insurance and other operating costs.

Our proprietary technology may be subject to claims for infringement or misappropriation of
intellectual property rights of others, or may be infringed or misappropriated by others.We rely
upon a combination of license agreements, confidentiality policies and procedures, employee
nondisclosure agreements, confidentiality agreements with third parties and technical security
measures to maintain the confidentiality, exclusivity and trade secrecy of our proprietary
information. We also rely on trademark and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property
rights in the United States and abroad. We continue to develop our patent portfolio of United
States and global patents, but these patents do not provide comprehensive protection for the wide
range of solutions and services offered by us. Despite our protective measures and intellectual
property rights, we may not be able to adequately protect against theft, copying,
reverse-engineering, misappropriation, infringement or unauthorized use or disclosure of our
intellectual property.

In addition, we are routinely involved in intellectual property infringement or misappropriation
claims and we expect this activity to continue or even increase as the number of competitors,
patents and patent enforcement organizations in the HIT market increases, the functionality of our
software solutions and services expands, the use of open-source software increases and we enter new
geographies and new markets such as healthcare device innovation, healthcare transactions and life
sciences. These claims, even if not meritorious, are expensive to defend and are oftentimes
incapable of prompt resolution. If we become liable to third parties for infringing or
misappropriating their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial
damage award, develop alternative technology, obtain a license and/or cease using, selling,
offering for sale, licensing, importing, implementing and supporting the solutions, devices and
services that violate the intellectual property rights.

We are subject to risks associated with our non-U.S. operations.We market, sell and service our
solutions, devices and services globally. We have established offices around the world, including
in: the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region. We will continue to expand
our non-U.S. operations and enter new global markets. This expansion will require significant
management attention and financial resources to develop successful direct and indirect non-U.S.
sales and support channels. Our business is generally transacted in the local functional currency.
In some countries, our success will depend in part on our ability to form relationships with local
partners. There is a risk that we may sometimes choose the wrong partner. For these reasons, we
may not be able to maintain or increase non-U.S. market demand for our solutions, devices and
services.

Non-U.S. operations are subject to inherent risks, and our future results could be adversely
affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These include, but are not limited
to:

•Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods•Difficulties and costs of staffing and managing non-U.S. operations•The impact of global economic conditions•Unfavorable or changing foreign currency exchange rates•Legal compliance costs and/or business risks associated with our global operations
where: i) local laws and customs differ from those in the United States or ii) risk is
heightened with respect to laws prohibiting improper payments and bribery, including
without limitation the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar regulations in
foreign jurisdictions•Certification, licensing or regulatory requirements•Unexpected changes in regulatory requirements•Changes to or reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries•Inability to obtain necessary financing on reasonable terms to adequately support
non-U.S. operations and expansion•Potentially adverse tax consequences and difficulties associated with repatriating cash
generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner•Different or additional functionality requirements or preferences•Trade protection measures•Export control regulations





•Service provider and government spending patterns•Natural disasters, war or terrorist acts•Labor disruptions that may occur in a country•Poor selection of a partner in a country•Political conditions which may impact sales or threaten the safety of associates or our
continued presence in these countries

Our failure to effectively hedge exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could
unfavorably affect our performance.We currently utilize a non-derivative instrument to hedge our
exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currency exchange rates. This instrument may involve
elements of market risk in excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Financial
Statements. For additional information about risk on financial instruments, see Item 7A
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. Further, our financial results from
non-U.S. operations may be negatively affected if we fail to execute or improperly hedge our
exposure to currency fluctuations.

We are subject to tax legislation in several countries; tax legislation initiatives or challenges
to our tax positions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We
are a large corporation with operations in more than twenty countries. As such, we are, or in the
future could be, subject to tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local
governments and of other country jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives
may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions and/or our tax liabilities. There can
be no assurance that our effective tax rate or tax payments will not be adversely affected by these
initiatives. In addition, United States federal, state and local, as well as other countries’ tax
laws and regulations, are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. There can be no
assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we
would be successful in any such challenge, which could result in double taxation, penalties and
interest payments.

Our success depends upon the recruitment and retention of key personnel.To remain competitive in
our industries, we must attract, motivate and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, marketing,
consulting and technical personnel, including executives, consultants, programmers and systems
architects skilled in the HIT, healthcare devices, healthcare transactions and life sciences
industries and the technical environments in which our solutions, devices and services are needed.
Competition for such personnel in our industries is intense in both the United States and abroad.
Our failure to attract additional qualified personnel to meet our non-U.S. personnel needs could
have a material adverse effect on our prospects for long-term growth. Our success is dependent to
a significant degree on the continued contributions of key management, sales, marketing, consulting
and technical personnel. The unexpected loss of key personnel could have a material adverse impact
on our business and results of operations, and could potentially inhibit development and delivery
of our solutions, devices and services and market share advances.

We depend on third party suppliers and our revenue and gross margin could suffer if we fail to
manage suppliers properly.We license or purchase intellectual property and technology (such as
software, hardware and content) from third parties, including some competitors, and incorporate
such third party software, hardware and/or content into or sell or license it in conjunction with
our solutions, devices and services. We depend on some of the third party software, hardware and/or
content in the operation and delivery of our solutions, devices and services. For instance, we
currently depend on Microsoft and IBM Websphere technologies for portions of the operational
abilities of ourMillenniumsolutions. Our remote hosting business also relies on a single or a
limited number of suppliers for certain functions of this business, such as Oracle database
technologies, CITRIX technologies and CISCO network technologies, and we rely on Hewlett Packard
and IBM for our hardware technology platforms.

Most of the third party software licenses we have expire within one to five years, can be renewed
only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure
the breach within a specified period of time. Most of these third party software licenses are
non-exclusive; therefore, our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered
by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us.





If any of the third party suppliers were to change product offerings, cease actively supporting the
technologies, fail to update and enhance the technologies to keep pace with changing industry
standards, encounter technical difficulties in the continuing development of these technologies,
significantly increase prices or terminate our licenses or supply contracts, we would need to seek
alternative suppliers and incur additional internal or external development costs to ensure
continued performance of our solutions, devices and services. Such alternatives may not be
available on attractive terms, or may not be as widely accepted or as effective as the intellectual
property or technology provided by our existing suppliers. If the cost of licensing, purchasing or
maintaining the third party intellectual property or technology significantly increases, our gross
margin levels could significantly decrease. In addition, interruption in functionality of our
solutions, devices and services as a result of changes in third party suppliers could adversely
affect future sales of solutions, devices and services, and negatively affect our revenue and gross
margins.

We intend to continue strategic business acquisitions, which are subject to inherent risks.

We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges.We test our goodwill for impairment during
the second quarter every year, and on an interim date should events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable in accordance with provisions of ASC
350,Intangibles – Goodwill and Other.Declines in business performance or other factors could
cause the fair value of a reporting unit to be revised downward and could result in a non-cash
impairment charge. This could materially affect our reported net earnings.

The ongoing uncertainty in global economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results
of operations and financial condition.





Risks Related to the Healthcare Information Technology, Healthcare Device and Healthcare
Transaction Industry

The healthcare industry is subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences.For
example, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (as modified by The Health
Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) provisions of the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009) (HIPAA) continues to have a direct impact on the healthcare
industry by requiring national provider identifiers and standardized transactions/code sets and
necessary security and privacy measures in order to ensure the appropriate level of privacy of
protected health information. These regulatory factors affect the purchasing practices and
operation of healthcare organizations.

Many healthcare providers are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with
greater market power. These providers may try to use their market power to negotiate price
reductions for our solutions and services. As the healthcare industry consolidates, our client
base could be eroded, competition for clients could become more intense and the importance of
landing new client relationships becomes greater.

In 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act became law. This comprehensive healthcare
reform legislation included provisions to control healthcare costs, improve healthcare quality, and
expand access to affordable health insurance. This healthcare reform legislation could include
changes in Medicare and Medicaid payment policies and other healthcare delivery administrative
reforms that could potentially negatively impact our business and the business of our clients.
Because the administrative rules implementing healthcare reform under the legislation have not yet
been finalized, the impact of the healthcare reform legislation on our business is unknown, but
there can be no assurances that healthcare reform legislation will not adversely impact either our
operational results or the manner in which we operate our business. Healthcare industry
participants may respond by reducing their investments or postponing investment decisions,
including investments in our solutions and services.

The healthcare industry is highly regulated at the local, state and federal level.We are subject
to a significant and wide-ranging number of regulations both within the United States and
elsewhere, such as regulations in the areas of healthcare fraud, e-prescribing, claims processing
and transmission, medical devices, the security and privacy of patient data and interoperability
standards.

Healthcare Fraud.

E-Prescribing.The use of our solutions by physicians for electronic prescribing, electronic
routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing is governed by federal and state laws.
States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our
solutions. In addition, in November 2005, the Department of Health and Human Services announced
regulations by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) related to “E-Prescribing and the
Prescription Drug Program” (E-Prescribing Regulations). These E-Prescribing Regulations were
mandated by the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003. The E-Prescribing Regulations set forth
standards for the transmission of electronic prescriptions. These standards are





detailed and
significant, and cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions
but also electronic eligibility, benefits inquiries, drug formulary and benefit coverage
information. Our efforts to provide solutions that enable our clients to comply with these
regulations could be time-consuming and expensive.

Claims Transmissions.Our solutions are capable of electronically transmitting claims for services
and items rendered by a physician to many patients’ payers for approval and reimbursement, which
claims are governed by federal and state laws. Federal law provides civil liability to any person
that knowingly submits a claim to a payer, including Medicare, Medicaid and private health plans,
seeking payment for any services or items that have not been provided to the patient. Federal law
may also impose criminal penalties for intentionally submitting such false claims. We have
policies and procedures in place that we believe result in the accurate and complete transmission
of claims, provided that the information given to us by our clients is also accurate and complete.
The HIPAA security, privacy and transaction standards, as discussed below, also have a potentially
significant effect on our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and
provided in a way that supports our clients’ HIPAA compliance obligations. In connection with these
laws, we may be subjected to federal or state government investigations and possible penalties may
be imposed upon us, false claims actions may have to be defended, private payers may file claims
against us and we may be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid or other government-funded healthcare
programs. Any investigation or proceeding related to these laws may have a material adverse impact
on our results of operations.

Regulation of Medical Devices.The United States Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) has
determined that certain of our solutions are medical devices that are actively regulated under the
Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (Act) and amendments to the Act. Other countries have similar
regulations in place related to medical devices, that now or may in the future apply to certain of
our solutions. If other of our solutions are deemed to be actively regulated medical devices by
the FDA or similar regulatory agencies in countries where we do business, we could be subject to
extensive requirements governing pre- and post-marketing requirements including pre-market
notification clearance. Complying with these medical device regulations on a global perspective is
time consuming and expensive, and could be subject to unanticipated and significant delays.
Further, it is possible that these regulatory agencies may become more active in regulating
software that is used in healthcare. If we are unable to obtain the required regulatory approvals
for any such solutions or medical devices, our short to long term business plans for these
solutions and/or medical devices could be delayed or canceled.

There have been ten FDA inspections at various Cerner sites since 1998. Inspections conducted at
our world headquarters in 1999 and 2010, and our prior Houston, Texas facility in 2002, each
resulted in the issuance of an FDA Form 483 observation to which we responded promptly. The FDA
has taken no further action with respect to the Form 483 observations that were issued in 1999,
2002 and 2010. The remaining seven FDA inspections, including inspections at our world
headquarters in 2006 and 2007, resulted in no issuance of a Form 483. We remain subject to
periodic FDA inspections and we could be required to undertake additional actions to comply with
the Act and any other applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with the Act and
any other applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our ability to
continue to manufacture and distribute our solutions. The FDA has many enforcement tools including
recalls, product corrections, seizures, injunctions, refusal to grant pre-market clearance of
products, civil fines and/or criminal prosecutions. Any of the foregoing could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Security and Privacy of Patient Information.Federal, state and local laws regulate the
confidentiality of patient records and the circumstances under which those records may be released.
These regulations govern both the disclosure and use of confidential patient medical record
information and require the users of such information to implement specified security measures.
United States regulations currently in place governing electronic health data transmissions
continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. Similarly, laws in non-U.S.
jurisdictions may have similar or even stricter requirements related to the treatment of patient
information.

In the United States, HIPAA regulations require national standards for some types of electronic
health information transactions and the data elements used in those transactions, security
standards to ensure
the integrity and confidentiality of health information and standards to protect the privacy of
individually identifiable health information. Covered entities under HIPAA, which include
healthcare organizations such as our clients, our employer clinic business model and our claims
transmission services, are required to comply with the privacy





standards, the transaction
regulations and the security regulations. Moreover, the recently enacted HITECH provisions of
ARRA, and associated regulatory requirements, extend many of the HIPAA obligations, formerly
imposed only upon covered entities, to business associates as well. As a business associate of our
clients who are covered entities, we were in most instances already contractually required to
ensure compliance with the HIPAA regulations as they pertain to handling of covered client data.
However, the extension of these HIPAA obligations to business associates by law has created
additional liability risks related to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health
information.

Evolving HIPAA and HITECH -related laws or regulations and regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions
could restrict the ability of our clients to obtain, use or disseminate patient information. This
could adversely affect demand for our solutions if they are not re-designed in a timely manner in
order to meet the requirements of any new interpretations or regulations that seek to protect the
privacy and security of patient data or enable our clients to execute new or modified healthcare
transactions. We may need to expend additional capital, software development and other resources to
modify our solutions and devices to address these evolving data security and privacy issues.
Furthermore, our failure to maintain confidentiality of sensitive personal information in
accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements could damage our reputation and expose us to
breach of contract claims (although we contractually limit liability, when possible and where
permitted), fines and penalties.

Interoperability Standards

We operate in intensely competitive and dynamic industries, and our ability to successfully compete
and continue to grow our business depends on our ability to respond quickly to market changes and
changing technologies and to bring competitive new solutions, devices, features and services to
market in a timely fashion.The market for healthcare information systems, healthcare devices and
services to the healthcare industry is intensely competitive, dynamically evolving and subject to
rapid technological and innovative changes. Development of new proprietary technology or services
is complex, entails significant time and expense and may not be successful. We cannot guarantee
that we will be able to introduce new solutions, devices or services on schedule, or at all, nor
can we guarantee that errors will not be found in our new solution releases, devices or services
before or after commercial
release, which could result in solution, device or service delivery redevelopment costs and loss
of, or delay in, market acceptance.





Certain of our competitors have greater financial, technical, product development, marketing and
other resources than us and some of our competitors offer software solutions that we do not offer.
Our principal existing competitors are set forth above under Part I, Item 1 Competition.

In addition, we expect that major software information systems companies, large information
technology consulting service providers and system integrators, start-up companies and others
specializing in the healthcare industry may offer competitive software solutions, devices or
services. We face strong competitors and often face downward price pressure, which could adversely
affect our results of operations or liquidity. Additionally, the pace of change in the healthcare
information systems market is rapid and there are frequent new software solution introductions,
software solution enhancements, device introductions, device enhancements and evolving industry
standards and requirements. There are a limited number of hospitals and other healthcare providers
in the United States HIT market and in recent years, the healthcare industry has been subject to
increasing consolidation. As the industry consolidates, costs fall, technology improves, and
market factors continue to compel investment by healthcare organizations in solutions and services
like ours, market saturation in the United States may change the competitive landscape in favor of
larger, more diversified competitors with greater scale. If we are unable to recognize these
changes in a timely manner, or we are too inflexible to rapidly adjust our business models, growth
ambitions and financial results could be affected materially.

Risks Related to Our Stock

Our quarterly operating results may vary, which could adversely affect our stock price.

Cerner Millennium

Revenue recognized in any quarter may depend upon our and our clients’ abilities to meet project
milestones. Delays in meeting these milestone conditions or modification of the project plan could
result in a shift of revenue recognition from one quarter to another and could have a material
adverse effect on results of operations for a particular quarter.

Our revenues from system sales historically have been lower in the first quarter of the year and
greater in the fourth quarter of the year, primarily as a result of clients’ year-end efforts to
make all final capital expenditures for the then-current year.

Our sales forecasts may vary from actual sales in a particular quarter.We use a “pipeline”
system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales
associates monitor the status of all sales opportunities, such as the date when they estimate that
a client will make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. These
estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. We compare this pipeline at
various points in time to evaluate trends in our business. This analysis provides guidance in
business planning and forecasting, but these
pipeline estimates are by their nature speculative. Our pipeline estimates are not necessarily
reliable predictors of revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, partially
because of changes in the pipeline and in conversion rates of the pipeline into contracts that can
be very difficult to estimate. A negative variation in the expected conversion rate or timing of
the pipeline into contracts,





or in the pipeline itself, could cause our plan or forecast to be
inaccurate and thereby adversely affect business results. For example, a slowdown in information
technology spending, adverse economic conditions, new federal, state or local regulations directly
related to our industry or a variety of other factors can cause purchasing decisions to be delayed,
reduced in amount or cancelled, which would reduce the overall pipeline conversion rate in a
particular period of time. Because a substantial portion of our contracts are completed in the
latter part of a quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure quickly enough in
response to a revenue shortfall resulting from a decrease in our pipeline conversion rate in any
given fiscal quarter.

The trading price of our common stock may be volatile.The market for our common stock may
experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to a number of factors including
actual or anticipated variations in operating results, rumors about our performance or solutions,
devices and services, changes in expectations of future financial performance or estimates of
securities analysts, governmental regulatory action, healthcare reform measures, client
relationship developments, changes occurring in the securities markets in general and other
factors, many of which are beyond our control. As a matter of policy, we do not generally comment
on our stock price or rumors.

Furthermore, the stock market in general, and the markets for software, healthcare devices, other
healthcare solutions and services and information technology companies in particular, have
experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of
particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the
trading price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance.

Our Directors have authority to issue preferred stock and our corporate governance documents
contain anti-takeover provisions.Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to
1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of
those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of
common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be
issued in the future.

In addition, some provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more
difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These
include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit shareholders from
taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of shareholders to call special meetings.
We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business
combination with any interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person
became an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met, which could have the effect of
delaying or preventing a change of control.

Factors that May Affect Future Results of Operations, Financial Condition or Business







