
10-K
FORM 10-K



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K



   FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ___________________ TO ___________________.

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-11239

                            ------------------------

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                   (FORMERLY COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION)
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

                            ------------------------



       Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (502) 572-2000

          Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the Registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes /X/ No / /

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  / /

    As  of February 28,  1994, there were outstanding  318,289,550 shares of the
Registrant's Common Stock  and 18,989,999 shares  of the Registrant's  Nonvoting
Common  Stock. As of February 28, 1994  the aggregate market value of the Common
Stock held by non-affiliates was $12,304,680,760. For purposes of the  foregoing
calculation  only,  the  Registrant's  directors,  executive  officers,  and The
Hospital Corporation  of  America  Stock  Bonus Plan  have  been  deemed  to  be
affiliates.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    Portions  of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for its 1994 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.

    The Exhibit Index is on page 39.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

GENERAL

    Columbia/HCA  Healthcare  Corporation  (the  "Company")  is  a  health  care
services company  that  is primarily  engaged  in buying,  selling,  owning  and
operating  general, acute care  and specialty hospitals  and related health care
facilities. As of March 28, 1994, the Company operated 196 hospitals located  in
26 states and two foreign countries.

    On  February  10, 1994,  the  Company acquired  HCA-Hospital  Corporation of
America ("HCA") pursuant to a merger  transaction accounted for as a pooling  of
interests  (the "HCA  Merger"). HCA was  one of the  leading hospital management
companies in  the  United  States.  Effective September  1,  1993,  the  Company
acquired  Galen Health  Care, Inc.  ("Galen") pursuant  to a  merger transaction
accounted for as a pooling of interests (the "Galen Merger"). Galen was a health
care services company that  primarily owned and  operated acute care  hospitals.
Galen  began operations  as an  independent publicly  held corporation  upon the
distribution of all of its common stock (the "Spinoff") by its then 100%  owner,
Humana Inc. ("Humana"), on March 1, 1993. Unless otherwise noted, the historical
financial  and operating data contained in this  Annual Report on Form 10-K have
been restated  to include  the relevant  data for  both HCA  and Galen  for  all
periods presented.

    The  Company, through various predecessor entities, began operations on July
1,  1988.  The  Company  was  incorporated   in  Nevada  in  January  1990   and
reincorporated  in Delaware in September 1993. The Company's principal executive
offices are located at 201 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, and its
telephone number at such address is (502) 572-2000.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

    The Company's strategy is to become a significant, comprehensive provider of
quality health  care  services in  targeted  markets. The  Company  pursues  its
strategy  by  acquiring  the  health  care  facilities  necessary  to  develop a
comprehensive health care network with  wide geographic presence throughout  the
market.  Typically, the Company enters a market  by acquiring one or more mid-to
large-size general, acute care  hospitals (over 150  licensed beds), which  have
either   desirable  physical  plants  or  ones  which  can  be  upgraded  on  an
economically feasible basis. The Company then upgrades equipment and  facilities
and  adds new services to  increase the attractiveness of  the hospital to local
physicians and patient populations. The Company typically develops a network  by
acquiring  additional health care facilities including additional general, acute
care hospitals, psychiatric hospitals and outpatient facilities such as  surgery
centers,  diagnostic centers,  physical therapy  centers and  other treatment or
wellness facilities  including  home  health  care  services.  By  developing  a
comprehensive  health  care  network in  a  local market,  the  Company achieves
greater visibility and  is better  able to  attract physicians  and patients  by
offering a full range of services in the entire market area. The Company is also
able  to  reduce  operating  costs by  sharing  certain  services  among several
facilities in  the same  market and  is better  positioned to  work with  health
maintenance  organizations ("HMOs"),  preferred provider  organizations ("PPOs")
and employers.

    Upon acquisition of a facility, the Company hires experienced executives  to
manage its operations and decentralizes operational decision making to the local
level, while providing local physicians and managers the opportunity to purchase
equity interests in the operations through a partnership or corporate structure.
The  Company is currently implementing this  strategy with certain of the former
Galen  and  HCA  facilities.  Management  believes  the  Company's  strategy  of
co-ownership  of its facilities with physicians produces significant operational
advantages. Physicians who have an ownership interest in a facility take a  more
active  role  in  recruiting other  physicians  and in  improving  efficiency by
containing costs and  making more  rational capital  expenditure decisions,  and
often  are  more  active  supporters of  operations  and  medical  staff quality
assurance activities, as they have a direct personal interest in the success and
reputation of the facility. Moreover,  because the Company's facilities are  co-
owned  with and  operated by prominent  members of the  local medical community,
both community


support for the facilities  and the Company's ability  to recruit physicians  to
the  facilities  are enhanced.  In  addition, by  giving  local managers  of its
facilities the opportunity to purchase equity interests in such facilities,  the
Company  creates incentives on the  part of its local  managers to operate their
facilities successfully with a long-term perspective.

HEALTH CARE FACILITIES

    The  Company  currently  operates  hospitals,  ambulatory  surgery  centers,
diagnostic  centers, cardiac  rehabilitation centers,  physical therapy centers,
radiation oncology centers, comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation centers  and
home health care agencies and programs.

    The Company currently operates 168 general, acute care hospitals with 39,886
licensed  beds. Most  of the  Company's general,  acute care  hospitals provides
medical and surgical services, including  inpatient care, intensive and  cardiac
care,  diagnostic  services  and  emergency services.  The  general,  acute care
hospitals  also  provide  outpatient   services  such  as  outpatient   surgery,
laboratory,  radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology  and physical therapy. A
local advisory board, which usually  includes members of the hospital's  medical
staff,  generally makes recommendations concerning the medical, professional and
ethical practices at  each hospital  and monitors such  practices. However,  the
hospital  is ultimately responsible for ensuring that these practices conform to
established standards.  When the  Company acquires  a hospital,  it  establishes
quality  assurance programs to support and monitor quality of care standards and
to meet accreditation and regulatory requirements. Patient care evaluations  and
other quality of care assessment activities are monitored on a continuing basis.

    Like  most hospitals,  the Company's  hospitals do  not engage  in extensive
medical research and medical education programs. However, some of the  Company's
hospitals  have  an affiliation  with  medical schools,  including  the clinical
rotation of medical students.

    The Company currently operates 28 psychiatric hospitals with 3,285  licensed
beds.  The Company's psychiatric hospitals provide therapeutic programs tailored
to child  psychiatric,  adolescent psychiatric,  adult  psychiatric,  adolescent
alcohol  or drug abuse and  adult alcohol or drug  abuse patients. The hospitals
use  the  treatment   team  concept  whereby   the  admitting  physician,   team
psychologist,  social workers, nurses, therapists and counselors coordinate each
phase of therapy. Services  provided by this  team include crisis  intervention,
individual  psychotherapy, group  and family therapy,  social services, chemical
dependency counseling,  behavioral modification  and physical  medicine.  Family
aftercare  plans  are  actively promoted  from  the time  of  admission, through
hospitalization and after discharge. An  aftercare plan measures each  patient's
post-program  progress  and  utilizes  one  or  more  self-help  groups. Program
procedures are  designed  to ensure  that  quality standards  are  achieved  and
maintained.  Certain of the Company's general,  acute care hospitals also have a
limited number of licensed psychiatric beds.

    Other outpatient or  related health  care services operated  by the  Company
include  ambulatory  surgery  centers, diagnostic  centers,  outpatient physical
therapy/rehabilitation centers,  outpatient radiation  therapy centers,  cardiac
rehabilitation  centers,  skilled  nursing services  and  home  health/ infusion
services. These outpatient and related services are an integral component of the
Company's strategy to develop a comprehensive health care network in each of its
target markets.

    In addition to providing  capital resources, the  Company makes available  a
variety   of   management  services   to  its   health  care   facilities,  most
significantly: national supply and  equipment purchasing and leasing  contracts;
financial  policies;  accounting, financial  and clinical  systems; governmental
reimbursement assistance;  construction planning  and coordination;  information
systems; legal; personnel management; and internal audit.

SOURCES OF REVENUE

    Hospital  revenues  depend upon  inpatient occupancy  levels, the  extent to
which ancillary  services and  therapy programs  are ordered  by physicians  and
provided  to patients,  the volume of  outpatient procedures and  the charges or
negotiated payment rates for such services. Charges and reimbursement rates  for
inpatient  routine services vary significantly depending  on the type of service
(e.g.,


medical/surgical, intensive care or psychiatric) and the geographic location  of
the  hospital.  The Company  has experienced  an increase  in the  percentage of
patient revenues attributable to outpatient services. This increase is primarily
the result of advances in technology,  which allow more services to be  provided
on  an outpatient  basis, acquisitions  of additional  outpatient facilities and
increased pressures  from Medicare,  Medicaid,  HMOs and  PPOs and  insurers  to
reduce  hospital stays and provide services, where possible, on a less expensive
outpatient basis.

    The  Company  receives  payment  for  patient  services  from  the   federal
government  primarily under the Medicare  program, state governments under their
respective Medicaid programs, HMOs, PPOs and other private insurers and directly
from patients. The approximate percentages of patient revenues of the  Company's
facilities from such sources during the periods specified below were as follows:



    Medicare  is a  federal program that  provides certain  hospital and medical
insurance benefits to persons age 65 and over, some disabled persons and persons
with end-stage renal disease. Medicaid  is a federal-state program  administered
by the states which provides hospital benefits to qualifying individuals who are
unable  to  afford  care.  Substantially  all  of  the  Company's  hospitals are
certified as providers of Medicare and Medicaid services. Amounts received under
the Medicare and  Medicaid programs  are generally significantly  less than  the
hospital's customary charges for the services provided.

    To  attract  additional  volume,  most  of  the  Company's  hospitals  offer
discounts from established charges to  certain large group purchasers of  health
care   services,  including  Blue  Cross,  other  private  insurance  companies,
employers, HMOs, PPOs  and other  managed care plans.  Blue Cross  is a  private
health  care program that funds hospital benefits through independent plans that
vary in  each state.  These discount  programs limit  the Company's  ability  to
increase  charges in response  to increasing costs.  See "Competition." Patients
are generally  not responsible  for any  difference between  customary  hospital
charges  and amounts reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, some
Blue Cross plans  and HMOs or  PPOs, but are  responsible to the  extent of  any
exclusions,  deductibles or co-insurance features  of their coverage. The amount
of such exclusions, deductibles and  co-insurance has generally been  increasing
each  year. Collection  of amounts due  from individuals is  more difficult than
from governmental or business payors.

    MEDICARE

    Beginning in 1983,  reimbursement to  hospitals under  the Medicare  program
changed  significantly and these changes have  had, and are expected to continue
to have, significant  effects on  the Company's  hospitals and  the health  care
industry  in  general.  Prior  to  1983,  Medicare  reimbursed  medical/surgical
hospitals on a cost-based  system. In 1983,  Medicare established a  prospective
payment  system under which inpatient discharges from medical/surgical hospitals
are classified into categories of treatments, known as Diagnosis Related  Groups
("DRGs"),  which  classify illnesses  according  to the  estimated  intensity of
hospital resources necessary to  furnish care for  each principal diagnosis.  At
December  31, 1993,  there were  489 DRGs.  Hospitals generally  receive a fixed
amount per  Medicare discharge  based upon  the assigned  DRG (the  "DRG  rate")
regardless  of how  long the patient  remains in  the hospital or  the volume of
ancillary services ordered by the attending physician. However, the DRG rate  is
adjusted for each hospital to reflect the relative severity of diagnosis, higher
cost  of  certain  geographical  areas,  disproportionate  share  of  low income
patients and indirect medical education costs. Also, Medicare pays an additional
"outlier" payment for extraordinary Medicare


cases involving long hospital  stays or significant  amounts of costs  incurred.
Under  the  prospective payment  system, hospitals  generally are  encouraged to
operate with greater  efficiency, since they  may retain payments  in excess  of
costs but must absorb costs in excess of such payments.

    The  Secretary of  the Department  of Health  and Human  Services ("HHS") is
required to establish annual increases in the DRG rates, effective October 1  of
each   year,   to   counter   inflationary   pressure   after   considering  the
recommendations of an  independent panel of  experts. In each  year since  1984,
however, the increases in the DRG rates have been determined by Congress as part
of  the federal  budget process. The  index used  to adjust the  DRG rates gives
consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals in purchasing the  goods
and  services they need to provide inpatient services (the "market basket"). For
several years the percentage increases to the DRG rates have been lower than the
percentage increases in the  market basket. Substantially  all of the  Company's
general, acute care hospitals are classified as urban for Medicare purposes. For
federal  fiscal  year ("FY")  1992 the  net update  of the  DRG rates  for urban
hospitals set by Congress was 2.8% (market  basket minus 1.6%); for FY 1993  the
net  update of the DRG  rates for urban hospitals  was 2.6% (market basket minus
1.6%); and for FY 1994 the net update of the DRG rates for urban hospitals  will
be  1.8%  (market  basket  minus  2.5%).  As  a  result  of  the  Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("OBRA 1993"), the net update of DRG rates for future
fiscal years is as follows: (i) FY 1995 -- urban hospitals will equal the market
basket minus 2.5%; (ii) FY  1996 -- all hospitals  will equal the market  basket
minus  2.0%; (iii) FY 1997  -- all hospitals will  equal the market basket minus
0.5%; and (iv) FY  1998 and thereafter  -- all hospitals  will equal the  market
basket.

    Medicare  payments for the majority of outpatient services generally are the
lower of 94.2%  of hospital  costs, customary  charges or  a blend  of 94.2%  of
hospital  costs and a fee schedule (such fee schedule generally being lower than
hospital costs). OBRA 1993 extended the 94.2% provision through FY 1998. HHS has
indicated  its  intention  to  change  reimbursement  procedures  for   Medicare
outpatients  to  a prospective  payment  system. The  effect  of a  change  to a
prospective payment system or other changes  to the existing payment system,  if
implemented,  cannot  be  predicted  by  the  Company  at  this  time.  Medicare
outpatient revenues were  approximately 21%  of the  Company's total  outpatient
revenues, or approximately 6% of the Company's total operating revenues, for the
year ended December 31, 1993.

    In  addition to the operating payments described above, the Medicare program
provides reimbursement  to  hospitals for  certain  costs of  capital  (such  as
depreciation,  property  taxes,  rent  and  interest).  Pursuant  to  final  HHS
regulations issued  in  August  1991,  reimbursement  for  capital  expenditures
related  to inpatient care was incorporated  into the prospective payment system
and will be  phased in over  a ten-year  period beginning October  1, 1991.  The
regulations  establish a standard federal rate per discharge for capital-related
inpatient hospital costs. The standard federal rate is based on the estimated FY
1992 national  average Medicare  inpatient  capital-related cost  per  discharge
under cost reimbursement. The rate will be adjusted for each hospital to reflect
the  relative severity  of diagnosis, higher  cost of  certain geographic areas,
disproportionate share of low income patients, indirect medical education  costs
and extremely high cost cases. As required by law, however, the standard federal
rate  will be adjusted in FY 1992 through FY 1995 so that aggregate payments for
capital will not exceed 90% of the amounts that would have been payable under  a
reasonable  cost reimbursement basis.  High capital cost-per-discharge hospitals
may qualify to continue to be paid based on a blend of old and new capital, with
old capital being paid at 85% of reasonable cost. Based upon its analysis of the
manner in which these regulations will be applied, the Company does not  believe
that,   in  the  aggregate,  its  hospitals  were  materially  affected  by  the
regulations for the  year ended December  31, 1993. Payments  for future  years,
however,  including those related to new  capital expenditures, will be affected
by annual updates  in the federal  payment rate. Management  cannot predict  the
effect  of  such changes  on the  Company's results  of operations  or financial
condition.

    The Medicare program reimburses each hospital on a reasonable cost basis for
the Medicare program's pro rata share of the hospital's allowable capital  costs
related  to outpatient services. Outpatient capital reimbursement was reduced by
15% (i.e., 85% of outpatient capital costs) during


FY 1990 and  the Omnibus  Budget Reconciliation Act  of 1990  (the "1990  Budget
Act")  extended the 15% reduction  through FY 1991. The  1990 Budget Act further
directed that outpatient capital reimbursement be reduced by only 10%  beginning
in  FY 1992  through FY 1995.  OBRA 1993  extended the 10%  reduction through FY
1998.

    In December 1985, the  Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Amendment ("Gramm-Rudman")  was
enacted  by Congress  mandating progressively  smaller projected  federal budget
deficits for  FYs between  1986 and  1991. Gramm-Rudman  provides for  automatic
spending  cuts in governmental programs  (including Medicare) if certain deficit
targets are not met. Under Gramm-Rudman, Medicare payments were reduced in  each
of  the FYs  1986 through  1988 and  in 1990.  The 1990  Budget Act restructured
Gramm-Rudman and extended  its term  of effectiveness.  For FY  1991 through  FY
1993, fixed deficit targets were eliminated, but will be applied for FY 1994 and
FY  1995 unless the President orders such targets eliminated. In addition to the
possible fixed deficit  targets for FY  1994 and  FY 1995, the  1990 Budget  Act
created  two  new limitations  on federal  spending, the  Discretionary Spending
Limits and  the  "Pay  As  You  Go" requirement.  Each  of  the  three  spending
limitations  is  enforceable by  sequestration, and  under the  "Pay As  You Go"
limitation, the  maximum reduction  in Medicare  payments is  4%. Management  is
unable  to determine what effect, if any, such provisions of the 1990 Budget Act
might have on the Company if implemented.

    Certain specialized hospitals, including  psychiatric hospitals, are  exempt
from  the Medicare prospective payment system and continue to be reimbursed on a
cost-based system. Under the Tax Equity  and Fiscal Responsibility Act of  1982,
base  year costs per Medicare case were determined for the Company's psychiatric
hospitals in 1982. The target  rate of permitted increases  in cost per case  is
established each year by the increase in the cost of a market basket of hospital
goods and services (the "Target Rate"). If a hospital's costs increase less than
the  Target Rate, the hospital receives a bonus of 50% of the difference between
its allowed increase and its actual increase (limited to 5% of the Target Rate).
These limits apply only to  operating costs and do  not apply to capital  costs.
The  effective increase in the  Target Rate per discharge  was 4.3% for the year
commencing October 1, 1993 and is expected to be market basket minus 1% for  FYs
1995  through 1997. Beginning in  FY 1998, the update  will equal the percentage
increase in the market basket. The 1990 Budget Act, however, reduces the penalty
for hospitals that incur actual operating costs in excess of the Target Rate  by
reimbursing  50% of the  cost in excess  of the limit  up to 110%  of the limit,
effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1991.  The
1990  Budget Act  directed the  Secretary of  HHS to  develop a  new prospective
payment methodology  for exempt  hospitals and  to report  to Congress  on  this
matter by April 1, 1992. The report had not been made as of March 28, 1994.

    Considerable  uncertainty  surrounds  the  future  determination  of payment
levels for DRGs  and for  other services currently  being reimbursed  on a  cost
basis.  Congress could consider  further legislation in  the prospective payment
area, such as further  reducing or eliminating DRG  rate increases or  otherwise
revising  DRG rates.  In addition,  any automatic  spending cuts  mandated under
Gramm-Rudman will further reduce payments  to the Company's hospitals under  the
Medicare program. Also, substantial areas of the Medicare program are subject to
legislative  and  regulatory changes,  administrative  rulings, interpretations,
administrative discretion,  governmental funding  restrictions and  requirements
for  utilization review  (such as second  opinions for  surgery and preadmission
criteria). These  matters,  as  well  as  more  general  governmental  budgetary
concerns,  may  significantly reduce  payments made  to the  Company's hospitals
under such programs, and there can be no assurance that future Medicare  payment
rates  will  be sufficient  to  cover cost  increases  in providing  services to
Medicare patients.

    MEDICAID

    Most state Medicaid payments are made under a prospective payment system  or
under  programs to negotiate payment  levels with individual hospitals. Medicaid
reimbursement  is  generally  substantially  less  than  a  hospital's  cost  of
services.  Medicaid  is currently  funded approximately  50%  by the  states and
approximately 50% by  the federal  government. The federal  government and  many
states


are  currently  considering  significant  reductions in  the  level  of Medicaid
funding while  at  the  same  time  expanding  Medicaid  benefits,  which  could
adversely  affect  future  levels  of  Medicaid  reimbursement  received  by the
Company's hospitals.

    On November 27, 1991, Congress  enacted the Medicaid Voluntary  Contribution
and  Provider-Specific Tax Amendments of 1991 (the "Medicaid Amendments"), which
limit the amount of voluntary contributions and provider-specific taxes that can
be used by states to fund Medicaid and require the use of broad-based taxes  for
such  funding.  As a  result of  enactment of  the Medicaid  Amendments, certain
states in which the Company operates have adopted broad-based provider taxes  to
fund  their Medicaid programs. To date, the impact upon the Company of these new
taxes has not been materially adverse. However, the Company is unable to predict
whether any additional broad-based provider taxes will be adopted by the  states
in which it operates and, accordingly, is unable to assess the effect thereof on
its results of operations or financial condition.

    ANNUAL COST REPORTS

    The  Company's annual cost reports which are required under the Medicare and
Medicaid programs are subject  to audit which may  result in adjustments to  the
amounts  ultimately determined to  be due the  Company under these reimbursement
programs.  These  audits  often  require  several  years  to  reach  the   final
determination  of amounts earned under the  programs. Providers also have rights
of appeal, and  the Company  is currently  contesting certain  issues raised  in
audits  of prior years' reports. Management believes that adequate provision has
been made in its financial  statements for any material retroactive  adjustments
that  might result from all  of such audits and that  final resolution of all of
these issues will not have a material adverse effect upon the Company's  results
of  operations  or  financial  position. Since  the  inception  of  the Medicare
prospective payment system in 1983, the amount of reimbursement to the Company's
general, acute  care hospitals  potentially affected  by audit  adjustments  has
substantially diminished.

    COMMERCIAL INSURANCE

    The  Company's hospitals provide services  to individuals covered by private
health care insurance. Private insurance carriers either reimburse their  policy
holders  or  make direct  payments  to the  Company's  hospitals based  upon the
particular hospital's established charges  and the particular coverage  provided
in  the insurance  policy. Blue  Cross is a  health care  financing program that
provides  its   subscribers   with   hospital   benefits   through   independent
organizations  that vary from  state to state. The  Company's hospitals are paid
directly by  local Blue  Cross organizations  on  the basis  agreed to  by  each
hospital and Blue Cross by a written contract.

    Recently,  several commercial insurers have  undertaken efforts to limit the
costs of hospital services by adopting prospective payment or DRG based systems.
To the extent such efforts are successful, and to the extent that the  insurers'
systems fail to reimburse hospitals for the costs of providing services to their
beneficiaries,  such  efforts  may  have  a  negative  impact  on  the Company's
hospitals.

HOSPITAL UTILIZATION

    The Company believes  that the two  most important factors  relating to  the
overall  utilization of a  hospital are the  quality and market  position of the
hospital and the number and quality of physicians providing patient care  within
the  facility. Generally, the Company believes that the ability of a hospital to
be a  market  leader  is  determined  by  its  breadth  of  services,  level  of
technology,  emphasis  on  quality  of care  and  convenience  for  patients and
physicians. Other factors which impact  utilization include the growth in  local
population,  local economic  conditions and  market penetration  of managed care
programs.

    The following table  sets forth certain  operating statistics for  hospitals
owned  and  operated by  the Company  for each  of the  five most  recent years.
Medical/surgical  hospital   operations   are  subject   to   certain   seasonal
fluctuations,  including decreases in patient utilization during holiday periods
and


increases in the cold weather  months. Psychiatric hospital operations are  also
subject  to  certain  seasonal  fluctuations,  including  decreases  in  patient
occupancy during the summer months and holiday periods.



    Beginning in  1983, hospitals  began  experiencing significant  shifts  from
inpatient  to  outpatient  care  as  well as  decreases  in  average  lengths of
inpatient stay primarily as  a result of hospital  payment changes by  Medicare,
insurance   carriers  and   self-insured  employers.   These  changes  generally
encouraged the  utilization  of  outpatient,  rather  than  inpatient,  services
whenever  possible, and  shortened lengths of  stay for  inpatient care. Another
factor affecting hospital utilization levels is improved treatment protocols  as
a result of medical technology and pharmacological advances.

COMPETITION

    Generally,  other  hospitals in  the  local markets  served  by most  of the
Company's  hospitals  provide  services  that  are  offered  by  the   Company's
hospitals.  Additionally, in the past several years, the number of free-standing
outpatient surgery and diagnostic centers in  the geographic areas in which  the
Company operates has increased significantly. As a result, most of the Company's
hospitals  operate in an increasingly competitive environment. The rates charged
by the Company's hospitals are intended to be competitive with those charged  by
other  local hospitals for similar services.  In some cases, competing hospitals
are  more  established  than  the  Company's  hospitals.  Also,  some  competing
hospitals  are owned  by tax-supported  government agencies  and many  others by
tax-exempt corporations  which may  be supported  by endowments  and  charitable
contributions  and which are exempt from  sales, property and income taxes. Such
exemptions and  support  are  not  available  to  the  Company's  hospitals.  In
addition,  in certain localities served by  the Company there are large teaching
hospitals which provide  highly specialized facilities,  equipment and  services
which  may  not be  available at  most of  the Company's  hospitals. Psychiatric
hospitals frequently attract patients from areas outside their immediate  locale
and,  therefore, the Company's psychiatric hospitals compete with both local and
regional hospitals,  including  the psychiatric  units  of general,  acute  care
hospitals.

    The  Company believes that its hospitals compete within local markets on the
basis of many  factors, including the  quality of care,  ability to attract  and
retain  quality physicians, location, breadth of services and technology offered
and prices  charged.  The competition  among  hospitals and  other  health  care
providers  has  intensified in  recent years  as  hospital occupancy  rates have
declined. The Company's  strategies are designed,  and management believes  that
its   hospitals  are  positioned,   to  be  competitive   under  these  changing
circumstances.


    One of  the  most significant  factors  in  the competitive  position  of  a
hospital  is the number and quality  of physicians affiliated with the hospital.
Although physicians may at any time terminate their affiliation with a  hospital
operated  by  the Company,  the  Company seeks  to  retain physicians  of varied
specialties on  its hospitals'  medical staffs  and to  attract other  qualified
physicians.  The Company believes  that physicians refer  patients to a hospital
primarily on the basis  of the quality  of services it  renders to patients  and
physicians,  the quality of other physicians  on the medical staff, the location
of the hospital  and the  quality of  the hospital's  facilities, equipment  and
employees.  Accordingly,  the  Company  strives  to  maintain  high  ethical and
professional standards and quality facilities, equipment, employees and services
for physicians and their patients.

    Another major  factor in  the  competitive position  of  a hospital  is  its
management's  ability to  negotiate service  contracts with  purchasers of group
health care services. HMOs  and PPOs attempt  to direct and  control the use  of
hospital  services through  managed care programs  and to  obtain discounts from
hospitals' established charges.  In addition, employers  and traditional  health
insurers  are increasingly  interested in containing  costs through negotiations
with hospitals for managed care programs and discounts from established charges.
Generally, hospitals  compete  for  service contracts  with  group  health  care
service  purchasers  on  the  basis  of  price,  market  reputation,  geographic
location, quality  and range  of  services, quality  of  the medical  staff  and
convenience.   The  importance   of  obtaining   contracts  with   managed  care
organizations varies from market to market  depending on the market strength  of
such organizations.

    State  certificate  of  need  ("CON") laws,  which  place  limitations  on a
hospital's ability to expand hospital services  and add new equipment, may  also
have the effect of restricting competition. The application process for approval
of  covered services, facilities, changes in operations and capital expenditures
is, therefore, highly  competitive. In those  states which have  no CON laws  or
which  set relatively high levels of  expenditures before they become reviewable
by state authorities, competition  in the form of  new services, facilities  and
capital  spending is more  prevalent. The Company has  not experienced, and does
not  expect  to  experience,  any  material  adverse  effects  from  state   CON
requirements   or  from  the  imposition,  elimination  or  relaxation  of  such
requirements. See "Regulation and Other Factors."

REGULATION AND OTHER FACTORS

    LICENSURE, CERTIFICATION AND ACCREDITATION

    Health care facility construction and operation is subject to federal, state
and local  regulation  relating to  the  adequacy of  medical  care,  equipment,
personnel,  operating policies and procedures, fire prevention, rate-setting and
compliance with building codes and environmental protection laws. Facilities are
subject to periodic inspection by  governmental and other authorities to  assure
continued  compliance  with the  various standards  necessary for  licensing and
accreditation. All of the Company's health care facilities are properly licensed
under appropriate state laws. Substantially all of the Company's general,  acute
care hospitals are certified under the Medicare program or are accredited by the
Joint   Commission  on  Accreditation  of   Health  Care  Organizations  ("Joint
Commission"), the effect of which is to permit the facilities to participate  in
the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A few of the Company's psychiatric hospitals
do  not  participate  in these  programs.  Should  any facility  lose  its Joint
Commission accreditation, or otherwise lose its certification under the Medicare
program, the facility would be unable to receive reimbursement from the Medicare
and Medicaid programs. Management believes that the Company's facilities are  in
substantial  compliance  with  current  applicable  federal,  state,  local  and
independent  review  body  regulations  and  standards.  The  requirements   for
licensure,  certification and accreditation are subject  to change and, in order
to remain qualified, it may  be necessary for the  Company to effect changes  in
its facilities, equipment, personnel and services.

    CERTIFICATES OF NEED

    The  construction of new facilities, the acquisition of existing facilities,
and the addition of new beds or  services may be reviewable by state  regulatory
agencies under a CON program. The Company operates hospitals in some states that
require    approval    under    a    CON    program.    Such    laws   generally


require appropriate state agency determination of public need and approval prior
to beds  or services  being added,  or  a related  capital amount  being  spent.
Failure  to  obtain necessary  state  approval can  result  in the  inability to
complete an acquisition or change of  ownership, the imposition of civil or,  in
some  cases, criminal sanctions,  the inability to  receive Medicare or Medicaid
reimbursement or the revocation of a facility's license.

    STATE RATE REVIEW

    A few states in  which the Company owns  hospitals have adopted  legislation
mandating  rate or budget review for hospitals or have adopted taxes on hospital
revenues, assessments or licensure fees to fund indigent health care within  the
state.

    In  Florida, a budget review process and  a ceiling on net revenue increases
per admission has been in effect  with respect to the Company's hospitals  since
January  1,  1986. The  ceiling on  net revenue  increases per  admission limits
hospital  net  revenue  per   admission  increases  to  an   annually-determined
percentage  increase in costs that Florida  hospitals pay for goods and services
plus a  statutory  2%,  plus  additional amounts  to  recognize  the  hospital's
Medicare patient days and Medicaid and uncompensated charity care days. This law
limits  the ability of Florida hospitals to increase rates to maintain operating
margins. The Company owned 47 hospitals aggregating 11,596 beds in Florida as of
March 28, 1994.

    In the aggregate, state  rate or budget review  and indigent tax  provisions
have  not materially adversely affected the Company's results of operations. The
Company is unable to predict whether any additional state rate or budget  review
or indigent tax provisions will be adopted and, accordingly, is unable to assess
the effect thereof on its results of operations or financial condition.

    UTILIZATION REVIEW

    Federal  law contains numerous  provisions designed to  ensure that services
rendered by  hospitals to  Medicare and  Medicaid patients  meet  professionally
recognized  standards, are medically necessary and that claims for reimbursement
are properly filed. These  provisions include a requirement  that a sampling  of
admissions  of Medicare  and Medicaid patients  must be reviewed  by peer review
organizations  ("PROs"),  which  review  the  appropriateness  of  Medicare  and
Medicaid  patient admissions and  discharges, the quality  of care provided, the
validity  of  DRG   classifications  and   the  appropriateness   of  cases   of
extraordinary length of stay or cost. While no PROs have ever taken any material
adverse action against any of the Company's hospitals, PROs may deny payment for
services  provided, assess fines and also have the authority to recommend to HHS
that a provider which is in substantial noncompliance with the standards of  the
PRO be excluded from participating in the Medicare program.

    MEDICARE REGULATIONS AND FRAUD AND ABUSE

    Participation  in  the  Medicare  program is  heavily  regulated  by federal
statute and regulation.  If a  hospital provider fails  substantially to  comply
with  the  numerous  conditions  of participation  in  the  Medicare  program or
performs certain prohibited acts (e.g., (i) making false claims to Medicare  for
services  not rendered or  misrepresenting actual services  rendered in order to
obtain higher reimbursement; (ii) paying remuneration for Medicare referrals (so
called "fraud and abuse" which  is prohibited by the "anti-kickback"  provisions
of the Social Security Act); (iii) failing to stabilize all individuals who come
to  its emergency room who have an "emergency medical condition," whether or not
any such individual is eligible  for Medicare; (iv) transferring any  stabilized
patient to another health care facility before such other facility has agreed to
the transfer of such patient, while such other facility does not have sufficient
room  and staff to treat the patient, without the patient's emergency department
medical  records,  or  without  appropriate  life  support  equipment;  and  (v)
transferring  any unstabilized patient except those transferred at the patient's
request or with physician certification that the medical risks from the transfer
are less harmful than  continued treatment at  the transferring facility),  such
hospital's  participation in the Medicare program  may be terminated or civil or
criminal penalties may be imposed upon such hospital under certain provisions of
the Social Security Act.


    Moreover, HHS  and  the  courts  have  interpreted  the  "fraud  and  abuse"
anti-kickback  provisions  of the  Social  Security Act  (presently  codified in
Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act) broadly to include the  intentional
offer,  payment, solicitation or receipt of anything  of value if one purpose of
the payment  is  to  induce  the referral  of  Medicare  business.  Health  care
providers  generally  are  concerned  that many  relatively  innocuous,  or even
beneficial,  commercial  arrangements  with  their  physicians  may  technically
violate this strict interpretation of Section 1128B(b).

    In  1976 Congress established the Office of Inspector General ("OIG") at HHS
to identify and eliminate fraud, abuse and waste in HHS programs and to  promote
efficiency  and economy in HHS departmental operations. The OIG carries out this
mission through a nationwide program of audits, investigations and  inspections.
In  order to  provide guidance  to health  care providers  on ways  to engage in
legitimate business  practices and  avoid  scrutiny under  the fraud  and  abuse
statute,  the  OIG  has from  time  to  time issued  "fraud  alerts" identifying
features of transactions, which, if  present, may indicate that the  transaction
violates  the fraud and abuse  law. In May 1992, the  OIG issued a special fraud
alert regarding  hospital incentives  to physicians.  The alert  identified  the
following  incentive arrangements  as potential  violations of  the statute: (a)
payment of any sort of incentive by the hospital each time a physician refers  a
patient  to the hospital, (b) the use of free or significantly discounted office
space or equipment (in  facilities usually located close  to the hospital),  (c)
provision  of free or  significantly discounted billing,  nursing or other staff
services, (d) free  training for  a physician's office  staff in  areas such  as
management  techniques,  CPT coding  and  laboratory techniques,  (e) guarantees
which provide that,  if the physician's  income fails to  reach a  predetermined
level,  the hospital will supplement  the remainder up to  a certain amount, (f)
low-interest or  interest-free  loans, or  loans  which  may be  forgiven  if  a
physician  refers patients  (or some  number of  patients) to  the hospital, (g)
payment of the costs of a  physician's travel and expenses for conferences,  (h)
coverage  on the hospital's  group health insurance  plans at an inappropriately
low cost  to the  physician and  (i)  payment for  services (which  may  include
consultations  at the hospital) which require few, if any, substantive duties by
the physician, or payment  for services in  excess of the  fair market value  of
services  rendered.  In  this  fraud alert  the  OIG  encouraged  persons having
information  about  hospitals  who  offer  the  above  types  of  incentives  to
physicians  to  contact any  of the  eleven  regional OIG  offices or  to report
information to the OIG.

    In addition, on July  29, 1991, the OIG  issued final regulations  outlining
certain "safe harbor" practices, which, although potentially capable of inducing
prohibited  referrals of business under Medicare or state health programs, would
not be  subject  to  enforcement  action under  the  Social  Security  Act.  The
practices  covered by  the regulations  include certain  physician joint venture
transactions, rental of  space and equipment,  personal services and  management
contracts,   sales  of  physician   practices,  referral  services,  warranties,
discounts, payments to employees, group purchasing organizations and waivers  of
beneficiary  deductibles and  co-payments. Additional proposed  safe harbors are
expected to be published in the near future by the OIG, including a safe  harbor
regulation   for  physician  recruitment.  Certain   of  the  Company's  current
arrangements with physicians, including joint  ventures, do not qualify for  the
current safe harbor exemptions.

    Although   the  Company  exercises  care  in  an  effort  to  structure  its
arrangements with physicians to comply in all material respects with these laws,
and although management believes that the Company is in compliance with  Section
1128B(b)  of  the  Social Security  Act,  there  can be  no  assurance  that (i)
government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing the  prohibitions
of  Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act will not assert that the Company
or certain transactions  in which  it is involved  are in  violation of  Section
1128B(b)  of the Social  Security Act and  (ii) such statute  will ultimately be
interpreted by  the courts  in a  manner consistent  with the  practices of  the
Company.

    The  federal  Medicaid  regulations  also  prohibit  fraudulent  and abusive
practices and  authorize  the  exclusion  from  such  program  of  providers  in
violation of such regulations.


    STATE LEGISLATION

    Some  of  the states  in  which the  Company  operates also  have  laws that
prohibit  corporations  and  other   entities  from  employing  physicians   and
practicing  medicine for a  profit or that prohibit  certain direct and indirect
payments or fee-splitting  arrangements between health  care providers that  are
designed   to  induce  or  encourage  the   referral  of  patients  to,  or  the
recommendation of, particular  providers for medical  products and services.  In
addition, some states restrict certain business relationships between physicians
and  pharmacies. Possible sanctions for  violation of these restrictions include
loss of licensure  and civil and  criminal penalties. These  statutes vary  from
state  to state, are often vague and  have seldom been interpreted by the courts
or regulatory agencies.  Although the  Company exercises  care in  an effort  to
structure  its  arrangements  with  health care  providers  to  comply  with the
relevant state statutes, and although management believes that the Company is in
compliance with these  laws, there  can be  no assurance  that (i)  governmental
officials  charged with responsibility for enforcing  these laws will not assert
that the  Company  or  certain transactions  in  which  it is  involved  are  in
violation  of such laws and (ii) such  state laws will ultimately be interpreted
by the courts in a manner consistent with the practices of the Company.

    HEALTH CARE REFORM

    In recent years,  an increasing  number of legislative  proposals have  been
introduced  or proposed  in Congress and  in some state  legislatures that would
affect major changes  in the  health care system,  either nationally  or at  the
state  level.  Among  the proposals  under  consideration are  cost  controls on
hospitals, insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health
insurance to small  businesses, requirements  that all  businesses offer  health
insurance  coverage to their  employees and the creation  of a single government
health insurance  plan that  would  cover all  citizens. President  Clinton  has
stated  that one of his primary objectives is to reform the nation's health care
system to insure  universal coverage and  address the rising  costs of care.  In
early  1993, President Clinton appointed Hillary Rodham Clinton to lead a health
care reform task  force with the  objective of developing  a health care  reform
proposal  which  could be  submitted by  the President.  On September  22, 1993,
before a  Joint  Session  of  Congress, President  Clinton  outlined  the  basic
principles  of  his upcoming  health care  reform proposal.  President Clinton's
health care  reform  bill,  introduced  as legislation  on  November  22,  1993,
includes  certain  measures  that could  be  viewed  as advancing  the  scope of
government  regulation  on  the  health  care  industry.  Key  elements  in  the
President's  proposal include various insurance  market reforms, the requirement
that businesses  provide  health  insurance coverage  for  their  full-time  and
part-time  employees,  significant reductions  in  future Medicare  and Medicaid
payments to  providers,  and  stringent  government  cost  controls  that  would
directly control insurance premiums and indirectly affect the fees of hospitals,
physicians  and  other health  care providers.  In  addition to  the President's
reform proposal,  several other  health  care reform  bills have  recently  been
introduced,  including The  Managed Competition  Act of  1993, Affordable Health
Care Now Act of 1993 and Health Equity & Access Reform Today. While the  Company
cannot  predict whether any such  proposals will be adopted,  or if adopted what
effect, if any, such proposals would have on its business, the Company  believes
that  it  is implementing  measures to  respond to  such prospective  changes by
expanding  its  network  strategy,  building  integrated  health  care  delivery
systems, negotiating with managed care providers and controlling its costs.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

    The  Company is  subject to  various federal,  state and  local statutes and
ordinances  regulating  the  discharge   of  materials  into  the   environment.
Management  does not  believe that  the Company will  be required  to expend any
material amounts in  order to  comply with these  laws and  regulations or  that
compliance   will  materially  affect  its  capital  expenditures,  earnings  or
competitive position.

INSURANCE

    As is typical in the health care industry, the Company is subject to  claims
and  legal actions by patients  in the ordinary course  of business. Through two
wholly-owned insurance subsidiaries,  the Company insures  substantially all  of
its   general   and   professional   liability   risks.   Subject   to   various


deductibles, the Company's hospitals are insured by these insurance subsidiaries
for losses of up to $25 million per occurrence for the former HCA hospitals  and
up  to $5 million per occurrence  for the former Columbia Healthcare Corporation
hospitals. The  Company currently  carries  general and  professional  liability
insurance  from unrelated  commercial carriers for  losses in  excess of amounts
insured by its insurance subsidiaries.

    The Company and its insurance subsidiaries maintain allowances for loss  for
professional and general liability risks which totalled $817 million at December
31,  1993. Management considers such allowances,  which are based on actuarially
determined estimates,  to  be adequate  for  such liability  risks.  Any  losses
incurred in excess of the established allowances for loss will be reflected as a
charge  to earnings of the Company. Any losses incurred within the deductible(s)
or in excess of amounts funded and commercial excess liability insurance will be
funded from the  Company's working capital.  While the Company's  cash flow  has
been  adequate to  provide for  alleged and  unforeseen liability  claims in the
past, there can be no assurance that such amounts will continue to be  adequate.
If  payments for general and professional liabilities exceed anticipated losses,
the results  of operations  and  financial condition  of  the Company  could  be
adversely affected.

EMPLOYEES AND MEDICAL STAFFS

    At  December  31, 1993,  the  Company had  approximately  131,600 employees,
including  approximately  33,500  part-time  employees.  Three  hospitals   have
employees  represented  by  various  labor  unions.  The  Company  considers its
employee relations to be satisfactory. While the Company's hospitals  experience
union  organizational activity  from time to  time, the Company  does not expect
such  efforts  to  materially  affect  its  future  operations.  The   Company's
hospitals,  like most hospitals, have experienced labor costs rising faster than
the general  inflation rate.  In recent  years, the  Company generally  has  not
experienced material difficulty in recruiting and retaining employees, including
nurses  and professional staff members, primarily as a result of staff retention
programs and general economic conditions. There can be no assurance as to future
availability and cost of qualified medical personnel.

    As of  December  31, 1993,  approximately  56,000 licensed  physicians  were
active  members of the  medical staffs of the  Company's hospitals. With limited
exceptions, physicians generally are not  employees of the Company's  hospitals.
However,  some  physicians provide  services  in the  Company's  hospitals under
contracts, which generally describe a term of service, provide and establish the
duties and obligations of  such physicians, require  the maintenance of  certain
performance  criteria  and  fix  compensation for  such  services.  Any licensed
physician may apply to be admitted to the medical staff of any of the  Company's
hospitals, but admission to the staff must be approved by the hospital's medical
staff  and the  appropriate governing board  of the hospital  in accordance with
established credentialling  criteria.  Members  of the  medical  staffs  of  the
Company's  hospitals often also serve on  the medical staffs of other hospitals,
and may terminate their affiliation with a hospital at any time.

INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE EXAMINATIONS AND TAX LITIGATION

    As a result of examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (the  "Service")
of  HCA's  federal  income  tax  returns,  HCA  received  statutory  notices  of
deficiency for the years 1981 through 1988. HCA has filed petitions in the  U.S.
Tax  Court  opposing  these  claimed  deficiencies.  Additionally,  the  Service
completed its examination for  the years 1989 and  1990 and has issued  proposed
adjustments, which HCA has protested. The principal issues involved are:

        (a)   METHOD OF  ACCOUNTING.  For  the taxable years  1981 through 1986,
    most of HCA's  hospital subsidiaries (the  "Subsidiaries") reported  taxable
    income  using primarily the  cash method of accounting.  The cash method was
    prevalent within  the hospital  industry and  the Subsidiaries  applied  the
    method  in accordance  with prior agreements  reached with  the Service. The
    Service now asserts that the accrual  method of accounting should have  been
    used.  The  Tax Reform  Act of  1986  (the "1986  Act") requires  most large
    corporate taxpayers (including  the Company)  to use the  accrual method  of
    accounting  beginning in 1987. Consequently, the Subsidiaries changed to the
    accrual method beginning January 1, 1987. In accordance with the  provisions
    of the 1986 Act,


    income  that was deferred  by use of the  cash method at the  end of 1986 is
    being recognized  as taxable  income  by the  Subsidiaries in  equal  annual
    installments  over  ten years  (1987 through  1996).  If the  Service should
    ultimately prevail in its claim that  the Subsidiaries should have used  the
    accrual  method for 1981 through 1986, HCA would be entitled to an offset as
    a  result  of  the  prior  inclusion  of  such  installments  for  1987  and
    thereafter.  Furthermore, the sale  by HCA of  numerous Subsidiaries in 1987
    that had used  the cash method  resulted in the  recognition of  substantial
    gain  which would not have  been recognized had they  been using the accrual
    method. Giving effect  to these offsets,  as of December  31, 1993, the  net
    effect  to HCA of the Service prevailing would be $110 million in additional
    income taxes plus interest of $432 million.

        (b)  HOSPITAL ACQUISITIONS.   (i) In connection with hospitals  acquired
    by  HCA in 1981, the  Service asserts that certain  assets claimed by HCA to
    have an ascertainable useful life have no ascertainable useful life and  are
    therefore  nonamortizable, and that the values assigned by HCA's independent
    appraisers to certain assets acquired  were excessive and that such  amounts
    actually  constitute goodwill, a nondepreciable and nonamortizable asset. If
    the  Service  ultimately  prevails  with  regard  to  every  assertion,  the
    additional  income taxes owed through December 31, 1993 would be $55 million
    plus interest of $97 million.

        (ii) Similarly, in connection with assets acquired in 1985, the  Service
    is  asserting  that the  relevant appraised  values  were excessive,  with a
    corresponding limitation on the resulting  deductions. With regard to  these
    issues,  the Service claims  $58 million of additional  income taxes and $42
    million of interest through December 31, 1993.

        (c)   INSURANCE SUBSIDIARY.   (i)  Based  on a  Sixth Circuit  Court  of
    Appeals  decision (the Court having jurisdiction over HCA's issues), HCA has
    claimed  that  insurance  premiums  paid  to  Parthenon  Insurance   Company
    ("Parthenon"),  a wholly-owned subsidiary of  HCA, are deductible, while the
    Service  maintains  that   such  premiums  are   not  deductible  and   that
    corresponding  losses are only deductible at the time and to the extent that
    claims are actually paid. HCA has  claimed the additional deductions in  its
    Tax Court petitions. Through December 31, 1993, HCA is seeking an income tax
    refund  of $51 million,  plus interest of  $93 million with  respect to this
    issue.

        (ii) As an alternative to HCA's position set forth in (c)(i) above,  HCA
    has  taken the  position that  in connection with  its sale  of hospitals to
    HealthTrust, Inc. -- The Hospital Company ("HealthTrust") in 1987,  premiums
    paid  to Parthenon by the hospitals sold,  if not deductible as described in
    (c)(i) above, became deductible  by HCA upon the  sale and HCA claimed  such
    deduction  in its 1987 federal income tax return. The Service has disallowed
    the deduction and is claiming an  additional $5 million in income taxes  and
    $15  million in  interest. A final  determination that the  premiums are not
    deductible either when paid  or upon the sale  would increase HCA's  taxable
    basis in the hospitals sold, reducing HCA's gain realized on the sale.

        (d)   HEALTHTRUST SALE.   (i) In  its 1987 sale  of certain hospitals to
    HealthTrust in  exchange for  cash, HealthTrust  preferred stock  and  stock
    purchase  warrants, HCA calculated  its gain based on  the valuation of such
    stock and warrants by an independent appraiser. The Service claims a  higher
    aggregate  valuation, based on the face amount  of the preferred stock and a
    separate appraisal  HealthTrust obtained  for the  stock purchase  warrants.
    Application  of the higher  valuation would increase  the gain recognized by
    HCA on the sale. If, however,  the Service succeeds in its assertion,  HCA's
    tax  basis in its HealthTrust preferred stock and warrants will be increased
    accordingly, thereby substantially reducing  the tax from  the sale of  such
    preferred  stock and warrants by a corresponding amount. By the end of 1992,
    HCA had sold  its entire  interest in  the HealthTrust  preferred stock  and
    warrants.  Taking  into consideration  the  sales, the  Service  is claiming
    interest of $64 million through December 31, 1993.

        (ii) Also  in connection  with the  1987 sale  of certain  hospitals  to
    HealthTrust,  the  Service  claims that  HCA's  basis  in the  stock  of the
    subsidiaries owning such hospitals sold to HealthTrust should be  calculated
    by  adjusting such  basis to  reflect accelerated  rather than straight-line
    depreciation. This would reduce  HCA's basis in  the stock sold,  increasing
    its taxable gain on the


    sale.  The Service's position is contrary to  a Tax Court decision which HCA
    believes to be controlling. The Service is claiming additional income  taxes
    of  $79 million and interest of $66  million through December 31, 1993 based
    on its position.

       (iii) In connection with the  1987 HealthTrust transactions, the  Service
    further  asserts that, to  the extent the Subsidiaries  were properly on the
    cash method through  1986, and  therefore were  properly including  deferred
    income  over a 10-year transition period,  HCA should have additional income
    in 1987 equal to the unamortized portion of the deferred income. It is HCA's
    position that no  additional income need  be included in  1987 and that  the
    deferred income continues to qualify for the 10-year transition period after
    the  sale.  Should  the  Service  prevail,  HCA  would  owe  $11  million of
    additional income taxes  and $17  million of interest  through December  31,
    1993.  This position of the  Service is an alternative  to its denial of the
    use of the cash method of accounting as discussed in (a) above.

        (e)  DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS.   For 1986 the Service  asserts that HCA is  not
    entitled  to include charity care writeoffs in the formula used to calculate
    its deduction  for doubtful  accounts.  For the  years  1987 and  1988,  the
    Service  asserts that  HCA is  not entitled  to exclude  from income amounts
    which are unlikely to be collected. Management believes that such exclusions
    are permissible  under an  accrual method  of accounting,  and  furthermore,
    because  HCA is a "service business"  and not a "merchandising business", it
    is entitled to  a special exclusion  provided to service  businesses by  the
    1986  Act. The Service disagrees, asserting that HCA is engaged, at least in
    part, in a "merchandising  business" and that  even if HCA  is engaged in  a
    "service business," the exclusion taken by HCA is excessive under applicable
    Temporary  Treasury  Regulations.  HCA  believes  that  the  formula  in the
    Temporary Treasury Regulations  which provides  for the  calculation of  the
    exclusion  is inaccurate, in  that it does  not permit HCA  to calculate the
    exclusion in  accordance  with  the  controlling  statute.  If  the  Service
    prevails, HCA would owe additional income taxes of $102 million and interest
    of $48 million through December 31, 1993.

        (f)   LEVERAGED BUY-OUT  EXPENSES.  With  respect to 1989  and 1990, the
    Service has claimed that certain expense and amortization deductions claimed
    with respect to  the leveraged  buy-out of HCA  are not  deductible. If  the
    Service  were  to prevail  with respect  to all  of these  items, additional
    income taxes of  $94 million would  be owed, together  with interest in  the
    amount of $24 million as of December 31, 1993.

        (g)    OTHER ISSUES.   Additional  federal  income tax  issues primarily
    concern disputes over the depreciable lives utilized by HCA for  constructed
    hospital  facilities, investment  tax credits,  vacation pay  deductions and
    income from foreign operations. Many  of these items, such as  depreciation,
    investment  tax credits and foreign issues,  have been resolved favorably in
    previous  settlements  and  management  believes  the  previous   settlement
    methodology should be followed again by the Service. The Service is claiming
    an  additional  $44 million  in  income taxes  and  $28 million  in interest
    through December 31, 1993 with respect to these issues.

    Management is of the opinion that  HCA has properly reported its income  and
paid  its  taxes  in accordance  with  applicable  laws and  in  accordance with
agreements  established  with  the  Service  during  previous  examinations.  In
management's   opinion,  the   final  outcome   resulting  from   the  Service's
examinations of  prior years'  income taxes  will not  have a  material  adverse
effect  on the Company's results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
If all or a majority  of the positions of the  Service are upheld, however,  the
results  of operations, financial position and liquidity of the Company would be
materially adversely  affected.  Management  believes  that  any  cash  payments
necessary  as a  result of  such final  outcome would  be funded  with cash from
operations and,  if  necessary,  with  amounts  available  under  the  Company's
revolving credit or other borrowing facilities.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The executive officers of the Company as of March 28, 1994, were as follows:



    Thomas  F.  Frist, Jr.,  M.D. has  served as  Chairman of  the Board  of the
Company since February 1994. Dr. Frist, a founder of HCA, served as Chairman  of
the  Board, President and Chief Executive Officer  of HCA from September 1987 to
February 1994. Dr. Frist  was Chairman and Chief  Executive Officer of HCA  from
August  1985 until September 1987. Dr. Frist is also a director of International
Business Machines Corporation.

    Richard L. Scott  has served  as President,  Chief Executive  Officer and  a
director  of the  Company since  September 1993.  Mr. Scott  was Chairman, Chief
Executive Officer and a  director of the Company  or its predecessors from  July
1988 to September 1993.

    David  T. Vandewater  has served as  Chief Operating Officer  of the Company
since September 1993. Mr. Vandewater was President of the Company from  February
1991  to September 1993 and served as its Executive Vice President from May 1990
until February 1991. From July 1988  until February 1990, Mr. Vandewater was  an
Executive  Vice  President  and  Chief  Operating  Officer  of  Republic  Health
Corporation (presently called OrNda Healthcorp).

    Stephen T. Braun has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel  of
the Company since September 1993. Mr. Braun served as Vice President and General
Counsel of the Company from October 1991 until September 1993. From July 1987 to
October  1991, Mr. Braun  practiced law with  the law firm  of Doherty, Rumble &
Butler, Professional Association, Saint Paul, Minnesota.

    Victor L. Campbell has served as Senior Vice President of the Company  since
February  1994. For more than five years prior to that time, Mr. Campbell served
as HCA's Vice President for  Investor, Corporate, and Government Relations.  Mr.
Campbell is currently Chairman of the Board of the Federation of American Health
Systems.

    Thomas H. Cato has served as Senior Vice President -- Information Systems of
the  Company  since  February  1994.  Mr.  Cato  was  Senior  Vice  President --
Information Services of HCA from April 1992 to February 1994. Mr. Cato was  Vice
President -- Information Services of HCA from 1987 until April 1992.


    David  C. Colby has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer of the Company since February 1994. Mr. Colby has served as  Chief
Financial  Officer of the Company or its predecessors since July 1988. Mr. Colby
was elected Treasurer of the Company in November 1991.

    Samuel A. Greco has served as Senior Vice President -- Financial  Operations
of  the Company since  July 1992. Mr.  Greco served as  Senior Vice President of
Finance -- South  Florida Division  of the Company  from November  1990 to  July
1992.  Mr. Greco  was Chief Financial  Officer of  University Hospital, Tamarac,
Florida, which  is owned  and operated  by  the Company,  from January  1990  to
November  1990.  From  1980  to  1989,  Mr.  Greco  held  various administrative
positions with  Florida  Medical  Center  and  several  diagnostic  centers  and
physician offices.

    Neil  D. Hemphill has served as Senior  Vice President -- Human Resources of
the Company since February 1994. Mr. Hemphill served as Vice President --  Human
Resources  of the Company  from June 1992  to February 1994.  Mr. Hemphill was a
Director of Human Resources of OrNda Healthcorp from January 1985 to June 1992.

    Richard A. Lechleiter  has served as  Vice President and  Controller of  the
Company since September 1993. Mr. Lechleiter served in the same capacity at both
Galen  and Humana from  September 1990 to  September 1993. From  July 1988 until
September 1990, Mr. Lechleiter was the Controller of Humana.

    Joseph D. Moore has  served as Senior Vice  President -- Development of  the
Company  since February 1994. Mr. Moore was Senior Vice President -- Finance and
Development of HCA from January 1993 to February 1994. Mr. Moore was Senior Vice
President -- Development  of HCA  from April 1992  until January  1993 and  Vice
President -- Development of HCA from 1980 until April 1992.

    Lindy  B. Richardson has served as Senior Vice President -- Marketing/Public
Affairs of  the Company  since  February 1994.  Ms.  Richardson served  as  Vice
President  -- Marketing/Public  Affairs of  the Company  from September  1993 to
February 1994. Ms. Richardson served as Director of Marketing/Public Affairs for
both Galen and Humana from 1988 to September 1993.

    Russell  D.  Schneider  has  served  as  Senior  Vice  President  --  Market
Organization  of  the  Company since  September  1993. Mr.  Schneider  served as
President of the Company's Southwest Division  from May 1990 to September  1993,
and as President of the Company's El Paso Division from May 1988 to May 1990.

    Richard A. Schweinhart has served as Senior Vice President -- Finance of the
Company since September 1993. Mr. Schweinhart served as Senior Vice President --
Finance  for both  Galen and  Humana from November  1992 to  September 1993. Mr.
Schweinhart also served as Vice President  -- Finance of Humana from 1988  until
November 1992.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

    The  location and name of,  and the number of licensed  beds in, each of the
health care facilities  owned by the  Company or its  subsidiaries at March  28,
1994, grouped by state, are set forth in the following table:


















    The  Company owns  and maintains  its headquarters  in approximately 110,000
square feet of office  space located in Louisville,  Kentucky. In addition,  the
Company  maintains offices in approximately 400,000  square feet of office space
in four office buildings owned by the Company in Nashville, Tennessee.

    The Company also operates medical  office buildings in conjunction with  its
hospitals.  These  office buildings  are  primarily occupied  by  physicians who
practice at  the  Company's  hospitals. These  office  buildings  are  generally
operated at a loss.

    The  Company's headquarters, hospitals and other facilities are suitable for
their respective uses and  are, in general, adequate  for the Company's  present
needs.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

    The Company is currently, and from time to time, subject to claims and suits
arising  in the  ordinary course of  business, including claims  for damages for
personal  injuries  or  for  wrongful  restriction  of,  or  interference  with,
physicians'  staff privileges.  In certain of  these actions  the claimants have
asked for punitive damages against the Company, which are usually not covered by
insurance. In the opinion of management, the ultimate resolution of any of these
pending claims and legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect  on
the Company's results of operations or financial position.

    On  December 10,  1992 and  December 15,  1992, respectively,  two virtually
identical purported class action  lawsuits (BERGER V. ROGER  E. MICK ET AL.,  92
CIV.  8960, United States District Court, Southern  District of New York and FOX
V. ROGER E. MICK  ET AL., 92  CIV 9139, United  States District Court,  Southern
District of New York) were filed by, respectively, holders of 400 and 500 shares
of  HCA's  Class  A Common  Stock  against  HCA, three  of  its  officers and/or
directors (Messrs. Thomas F. Frist, Jr., Roger E. Mick and Donald J. Israel) and
the underwriters of its February 1992 initial public offering of Class A  Common
Stock,  on behalf of all purchasers of HCA's  Class A Common Stock from the time
of the initial  public offering  (February 26, 1992)  until HCA  issued a  press
release  in respect of  its psychiatric division  restructuring on September 18,
1992. In the lawsuits it is alleged that HCA failed to disclose material adverse
financial information regarding  its psychiatric division  in its February  1992
offering  prospectus in  respect of  such initial  public offering  and in HCA's
subsequent Forms  10-Q  for the  quarters  ended March  31  and June  30,  1992.
Violations  of the Securities Act of 1933  and of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 are alleged. Damages are unspecified. In June 1993 the court granted  HCA's
motion  to transfer both  lawsuits to the  United States District  Court for the
Middle District of Tennessee. After such transfer, the Tennessee District  Court
dismissed the FOX lawsuit and joined the plaintiff of the FOX lawsuit as a party
plaintiff  to the BERGER lawsuit. HCA's motion  to dismiss the BERGER lawsuit is
still pending. While the  Company cannot predict with  certainty the outcome  of
this  proceeding,  the  Company,  based  upon  information  currently available,
believes that this proceeding is without merit.

    A class  action styled  MARY FORSYTH  ET AL.  V. HUMANA  INC. ET  AL.,  Case
#CV-S-89-249-PMP  (L.R.L.), was  filed on March  29, 1989, in  the United States
District Court for the  District of Nevada (the  "Forsyth" case). On August  12,
1991,   a  Second  Amended  Complaint  was  filed  in  the  Forsyth  case  which
significantly increased  the amount  of  damages claimed  by the  plaintiffs  in
previously  filed complaints. The claimed damages  increased from $10 million to
$84,520,143 in connection with a count which alleges a violation of the Employee
Retirement Income  Security  Act  (the  "ERISA  Count");  from  $10  million  to
$181,034,570  (before trebling) in  connection with an  alleged violation of the
Sherman Anti-Trust  Act  (the  "Anti-Trust  Count"); and  from  $10  million  to
$181,034,570  (before  trebling)  for  an  alleged  violation  of  the Racketeer
Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act (the "RICO Count"). In late March  1992,
as  part of the discovery process, the plaintiffs provided information in regard
to their calculation  of damages which  indicates they are  seeking recovery  of
$49,440,000  of damages plus approximately $15,396,000  of interest in the ERISA
Count  and  $103,562,165  of   damages  (before  trebling)  plus   approximately
$31,800,000  of interest  in the RICO  Count. Specific amounts  were not readily
apparent for the Anti-Trust  Count but it appears  the plaintiffs believe  their


claimed  damages in the Anti-Trust  Count would be similar  to those in the RICO
Count. The ERISA Count,  which is being asserted  by the Co-Payer Class,  claims
that Humana Inc. ("Humana") violated a fiduciary duty in connection with (i) the
calculation  of co-insurance payments required under policies issued by Humana's
insurance subsidiary  ("Humana  Insurance") for  insureds  who were  treated  at
Sunrise  Hospital in Las Vegas (now owned  by the Company), and (ii) payments to
the hospital by Humana Insurance. The Anti-Trust Count, which is being  asserted
by the Premium Payer Class, alleges that Sunrise Hospital has monopolized or has
attempted  to monopolize the for-profit, acute  care hospital services market in
Clark County, Nevada, and that Humana Insurance engaged in predatory pricing  in
connection  with the sale  of insurance policies  to members of  such class. The
plaintiffs have also indicated damages with  respect to the Co-Payer Class.  The
RICO  Count, which  is being  asserted by  both the  Premium Payer  and Co-Payer
Classes, alleges fraud in connection with (i) the sale of insurance policies  to
members  of the Premium Payer Class and (ii) the calculation of the co-insurance
payments. On June 22,  1992, defendants filed a  Motion for Summary Judgment  on
all  three  counts of  the Complaint.  On  July 21,  1993, Summary  Judgment was
entered in favor  of defendants on  all counts, although  the Court allowed  the
Co-Payer  Class  to file  a Third  Amended  Complaint. On  August 24,  1993, the
plaintiffs filed a Third Amended Complaint against Humana Insurance, seeking  to
recover  at  least $2,000,000,  plus interest,  which represents  the difference
between their co-insurance  payments and what  the payments would  have been  if
calculated  based on the discounted payments made by Humana Insurance to Sunrise
Hospital. Pursuant to an Assumption of Liabilities and Indemnification Agreement
entered into in connection  with the Spinoff,  Humana assumed approximately  39%
and  Galen  assumed approximately  61% of  all  liabilities, costs  and expenses
arising out of certain  identified legal proceedings  and claims, including  the
Forsyth case.

    On  April  22,  1993, an  alleged  stockholder  of Galen  filed  a purported
stockholder derivative action in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware,
County of New Castle, styled  LEWIS V. AUSTEN, ET  AL., Civil Action No.  12937.
The  action was purportedly brought on behalf of Galen and Humana against all of
the directors of both companies at the time of the Spinoff alleging, among other
things, that  the  defendants had  improperly  amended Humana's  existing  stock
option  plans  in connection  with the  Spinoff. The  plaintiff claims  that the
amendment to the stock option plans  constituted a waste of corporate assets  to
the  extent that employees of such company  received options in the stock of the
other company. (The challenged amendment to  the plans was approved by  Humana's
stockholders at the 1993 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, at which time Galen was
a  wholly  owned  subsidiary of  Humana.)  The plaintiff  requests,  among other
things, an  injunction  prohibiting the  exercise  of Humana  stock  options  by
Company  personnel and the exercise of Company stock options by Humana personnel
and an award  of damages.  The Company believes  that the  complaint is  without
merit.

    A  purported class action has been filed  against HCA, the directors of HCA,
and the Company, in the Delaware Court of Chancery entitled 7547 PARTNERS V. HCA
HOSPITAL CORP. OF AMERICA, JACK O. BOVENDER, JR., THOMAS F. FRIST, JR.,  CHARLES
T.  HARRIS, III, CHARLES J. KANE, RICHARD E. RAINWATER, CARL E. REICHARDT, FRANK
S. ROYAL AND  COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE  CORPORATION, C.A. No.  13159. The  complaint,
brought  by a purported stockholder of HCA, alleges that the defendants breached
their fiduciary duties to plaintiff and other members of the purported class and
also alleges that the defendants aided and  abetted a gross abuse of trust.  The
complaint  alleges that the directors  of HCA wrongfully failed  to hold an open
auction and  encourage bona  fide bids  for HCA  and failed  to take  action  to
maximize  value to HCA  stockholders. The complaint seeks  rescission of the HCA
Merger or rescissionary damages. The complaint also seeks monetary damages of an
unspecified amount and attorneys' and  experts' fees. The Company believes  that
the complaint is without merit.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

    No  matters were submitted to  a vote of security  holders during the fourth
quarter of 1993.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

    The Company's Common Stock has been  primarily traded on the New York  Stock
Exchange  (the "NYSE") (symbol "COL")  since July 14, 1993.  Prior to that date,
the Company's  Common  Stock was  traded  through the  National  Association  of
Securities  Dealers Automated  Quotation National  Market System ("NASDAQ/NMS").
The table below sets  forth, for the calendar  quarters indicated, the high  and
low sales prices per share reported on the NYSE Composite Tape or NASDAQ/NMS for
the   Company's  Common  Stock.  The  information  with  respect  to  NASDAQ/NMS
quotations was obtained  from the  National Association  of Securities  Dealers,
Inc.  and  reflects  interdealer  prices,  without  retail  markup,  markdown or
commissions and may not represent actual transactions.



    The Company's registrar  and transfer agent  for its Common  Stock is  First
Union  National Bank of North Carolina. At the close of business on February 28,
1994, there were 15,600 holders of record of the Company's Common Stock and  one
holder of record of the Company's Nonvoting Common Stock.

    The  Company commenced the payment of a quarterly dividend of $.03 per share
in the fourth quarter of 1993. Prior to  that time, the Company did not pay  any
cash  dividends. While  it is  the present intention  of the  Company's Board of
Directors to  continue  paying a  quarterly  dividend  of $.03  per  share,  the
declaration and payment of future dividends by the Company will depend upon many
factors,  including the Company's earnings, financial condition, business needs,
capital and surplus and regulatory considerations.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                   AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)




                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                      SUPPLEMENTAL SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                   AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)




ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
               MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                      CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The  Selected Financial  Data in Item  6 set forth  certain information with
respect to  the financial  position, results  of operations  and cash  flows  of
Columbia Healthcare Corporation ("Columbia") which should be read in conjunction
with the following discussion and analysis.

HCA MERGER

    The  HCA Merger was completed on February  10, 1994. Although the HCA Merger
will be  treated  as  a  pooling  of  interests  for  accounting  purposes,  the
accompanying  consolidated financial statements and financial and operating data
included in this discussion and analysis  do not include the retroactive  effect
of  the HCA Merger. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
of  Columbia  and   the  Supplemental  Consolidated   Financial  Statements   of
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation ("Columbia/HCA") included herein for further
information.

BACKGROUND INFORMATION AND BUSINESS STRATEGY

    As  discussed in Notes  1 and 2  of the Notes  to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, Columbia began  operations on  September 1, 1993  as a  result of  a
merger  involving Columbia Hospital  Corporation ("CHC") and  Galen Health Care,
Inc. ("Galen") (the  "Galen Merger"), which  was accounted for  as a pooling  of
interests.  Accordingly, the accompanying financial statements and financial and
operating data included in this discussion and analysis give retroactive  effect
to the Galen Merger and include the combined operations of CHC and Galen for all
periods  presented. In addition, the historical financial information related to
Galen (which prior  to the Galen  Merger was  reported on a  fiscal year  ending
August  31) has  been recast  to conform  to Columbia's  annual reporting period
ending December 31.

    Prior to the merger with CHC, Galen became a publicly held corporation as  a
result of a spinoff transaction by Humana Inc. ("Humana") which was completed on
March  1,  1993  (the  "Spinoff").  The  Spinoff  separated  Humana's previously
integrated hospital and  managed care  health plan businesses  and was  effected
through  the distribution  of Galen common  stock to then  current Humana common
stockholders on a  one-for-one basis.  For accounting purposes,  because of  the
relative  significance  of  the  hospital  business,  the  pre-Spinoff financial
statements of Galen (and now those of Columbia) include the separate results  of
Humana's  hospital  business,  while the  operating  results and  net  assets of
Humana's  managed  care  health  plans  have  been  classified  as  discontinued
operations.

    At  the time of the Galen Merger,  CHC operated 22 hospitals (5,226 licensed
beds) and certain ancillary health care facilities in five major markets located
in Florida and Texas. Annualized revenues of  CHC were in excess of $1  billion.
Galen  operated 71 hospitals (16,251 licensed beds) located in 18 states and two
foreign countries with annualized revenues of approximately $4 billion.

    Columbia primarily operates hospitals  and ancillary health care  facilities
through  either (i) wholly  owned subsidiaries or  (ii) ownership of controlling
interests in various partnerships in which subsidiaries of Columbia serve as the
managing  general  partner.   Columbia's  business  strategy   centers  on   the
development  of  comprehensive, integrated  health  care delivery  networks with
physicians and other health care providers in targeted markets, which  typically
involves   significant  health  care   facility  acquisition  and  consolidation
activities.

    During the past several years, hospital inpatient admission trends have been
adversely impacted by cost  containment efforts initiated  by federal and  state
governments  and various  third-party payers,  including HMOs,  PPOs, commercial
insurance companies and employer-sponsored networks. In addition, a  significant
number  of  medical procedures  have shifted  from  inpatient to  less expensive
outpatient settings as a result of both cost containment pressures and  advances
in medical technology.


    In  response to changes in the  health care industry, Columbia has developed
the following  operating strategy  to provide  the highest  quality health  care
services at the lowest possible cost:

    BECOME  A SIGNIFICANT PROVIDER  OF SERVICES --  Columbia attempts to (i)
    consolidate services to  reduce costs  and (ii)  develop the  geographic
    coverage   necessary   for   inclusion   in   most   managed   care  and
    employer-sponsored networks in each market.

    PROVIDE A  COMPREHENSIVE  RANGE  OF  SERVICES  --  In  addition  to  the
    operation  of  general,  acute care  hospitals,  Columbia  also operates
    psychiatric  and  rehabilitation  facilities,  outpatient  surgery   and
    diagnostic  centers,  home  health  agencies  and  other  services. This
    strategy enables Columbia  to attract business  from managed care  plans
    and  major employers seeking efficient access  to a wide array of health
    care services.

    DELIVER HIGH QUALITY SERVICES -- Through the use of clinical information
    systems,  Columbia   focuses  on   patient  outcomes   and  strives   to
    continuously  improve  the  quality  of  care  and  service  provided to
    patients.

    INTEGRATE FRAGMENTED DELIVERY SYSTEMS -- Through its networks,  Columbia
    focuses  on coordinating  pricing, contracting,  information systems and
    quality assurance activities among providers in each market.

    Management  intends  to  implement  its   strategy  discussed  above  in   a
substantial  number of former Galen markets as  well as new markets, and further
develop the  integrated  health  care  networks in  its  five  pre-Galen  Merger
markets.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    Revenues  increased 7%  to $5.1 billion  in 1993  and 4% to  $4.8 billion in
1992. Increases  in  both  periods  resulted  primarily  from  price  increases,
acquisitions and, in 1992, growth in outpatient services.

    During  1992  and  1993,  Columbia  acquired  or  constructed  21  hospitals
containing 3,474 licensed beds and sold or closed 14 hospitals containing  1,682
licensed   beds.   The  following   table   summarizes  percentage   changes  in
same-hospital admissions and outpatient registrations for each respective period
of 1993  compared to  the same  period  of 1992,  and changes  in  same-hospital
admissions  and outpatient registrations for each period of 1992 compared to the
same period of 1991.



    Since it began operations in 1988, CHC had experienced significant growth in
patient volumes, revenues and  net income, primarily as  a result of  successful
implementation of its strategy.

    The  historical operating  results of  Galen's hospitals  (which include the
hospital operations of Humana prior to the Spinoff) had been adversely  impacted
as  a result of  such hospitals' pre-Spinoff  relationship with Humana's managed
care health  plan business  in certain  markets. Management  believes that  this
relationship  caused some physicians to  discontinue referrals of their patients
to the company's hospitals, and  had precluded these hospitals from  contracting
with  unaffiliated insurers. In addition, Galen's  volume of patients covered by
traditional  insurance  (who   pay  amounts  which   more  closely   approximate
established  charges) declined  significantly in 1992  due in  part to increased
price consciousness of patients and  physicians with respect to Galen's  pricing
policies.  Same-hospital volume trends at  former Galen facilities have improved
in 1993 primarily as a result of increased volumes from discounted managed  care
health plans other than Humana.

    Income   from  continuing  operations   before  non-recurring  transactions,
depreciation,  interest,  minority  interests,  income  taxes  and  amortization
("EBDITA")  increased 4% to $907 million in  1993 from $870 million in 1992. The
decline  in  EBDITA  margins  to  17.7%  from  18.1%  resulted  primarily   from
deterioration  in  payer  mix.  Medicare admissions  as  a  percentage  of total
admissions increased  from 35%  in 1992  to 36%  in 1993,  while discounted  and
managed  care admissions grew from 44%  to 45%, respectively. EBDITA declined 6%
in 1992 from 1991 due to a  decline in same-hospital admissions at former  Galen
facilities and deterioration in Galen's payer mix.

    During the third quarter of 1993, Columbia recorded non-recurring charges of
$151  million ($98  million net of  tax) of  costs related to  the Galen Merger.
Results of operations in 1992 include $138  million ($86 million net of tax)  of
costs  incurred  in connection  with the  Spinoff. See  Note 5  of the  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.


    Excluding  the  effects  of  the  non-recurring  transactions,  income  from
continuing  operations declined 2% to $291 million ($1.95 per share) in 1993 and
17% to $297 million ($2.05 per share) in 1992.

    During the third  quarter of 1993,  in an effort  to reduce future  interest
expense  and  eliminate  certain restrictive  covenants,  Columbia  effected the
refinancing of $787 million of its long-term debt bearing interest at an average
rate of  8.5% primarily  through  the issuance  of commercial  paper.  After-tax
losses  from these  refinancing activities  aggregated $70  million or  $.46 per
share.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    Results of operations  include income  from discontinued  operations of  $16
million  in 1993, a  loss of $125 million  in 1992 and income  of $16 million in
1991. Losses from discontinued operations in 1992 include costs of $135  million
(net of tax) incurred by Humana in connection with the Spinoff.

LIQUIDITY

    Cash provided by continuing operations totaled $493 million in 1993 compared
to  $668 million in 1992 and $655 million in 1991. The decrease in 1993 resulted
primarily from a slower decline  in the number of  days of revenues in  accounts
receivable,  and an acceleration in  the payment of income  taxes and funding of
retirement plan obligations.

    Working capital totaled $374 million at  December 31, 1993 compared to  $392
million  at  December  31,  1992.  Management  believes  that  cash  flows  from
operations and amounts  available under Columbia's  revolving credit  facilities
and  related commercial  paper programs are  sufficient to  meet expected future
liquidity needs.

    Investments of  Columbia's professional  liability insurance  subsidiary  to
maintain  statutory equity and pay claims  totaled $376 million and $347 million
at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

    In September 1993 the Board of Directors initiated the payment of a  regular
quarterly  cash dividend of  $.03 per common  share. Management anticipates that
this dividend policy will continue after consummation of the HCA Merger.

CAPITAL RESOURCES

    Excluding acquisitions, capital  expenditures totaled $382  million in  1993
compared  to $359  million in  1992 and  $453 million  in 1991.  Planned capital
expenditures in 1994 (excluding acquisitions)  are expected to approximate  $400
million. Management believes that its capital expenditure program is adequate to
expand, improve and equip existing health care facilities.

    In  addition, Columbia expended $79 million, $36 million and $96 million for
acquisitions during 1993, 1992 and 1991,  respectively. See Note 6 of the  Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these activities.

    As  part of  its business strategy,  Columbia intends  to acquire additional
health care facilities  in the  future. Since  December 31,  1993, Columbia  has
expended  $114 million  toward the  purchase of  four hospitals  (or controlling
interests therein)  containing 1,264  licensed beds.  These transactions,  which
will  be accounted for by the purchase  method, were financed through the use of
internally generated funds and issuance of long-term debt.

    Columbia  expects  to  finance  all  capital  expenditures  with  internally
generated  and borrowed  funds. Available sources  of capital  include public or
private debt, commercial  paper, unused  bank revolving credits  and equity.  At
December 31, 1993, there were projects under construction which had an estimated
additional cost to complete of approximately $149 million.

    In  connection with the Spinoff, common  stockholders' equity was reduced by
$802 million in 1993 as a result of the following transactions with Humana:  (i)
distribution  of the net assets  of the health plan  business ($392 million) and
the net  assets of  a hospital  facility  ($25 million),  (ii) payment  of  cash


($135  million)  and (iii)  issuance  of notes  ($250  million). The  notes were
refinanced in September 1993. Including the pro forma effect of the Spinoff, the
ratio of debt  to debt  plus common stockholders'  equity improved  from 53%  at
December 31, 1992 to 50% at December 31, 1993.

    Upon  consummation of the HCA Merger in February 1994, Columbia entered into
revolving credit agreements in the aggregate amount of $3 billion and refinanced
certain HCA and other long-term  debt. The refinancings were effected  primarily
through  the issuance of commercial paper, $175 million of 6 1/2% Notes due 1999
and $150 million  of 7.15% Notes  due 2004. Management  anticipates that  losses
resulting  from these refinancing  activities will reduce  the combined entity's
first quarter 1994 net income by approximately $80 million.

    Columbia's credit facilities contain  customary covenants which include  (i)
limitations on additional debt, (ii) limitations on sales of assets, mergers and
changes  of ownership and (iii) maintenance of certain interest coverage ratios.
Columbia was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 1993.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES

    Various federal, state  and local laws  have been enacted  that, in  certain
cases,  limit  Columbia's  ability  to increase  prices.  Revenues  for hospital
services rendered  to  Medicare  patients  are  established  under  the  federal
government's prospective payment system. Medicare revenues approximated 33%, 31%
and 30% of revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

    Management  believes  that hospital  operating  margins have  been,  and may
continue to be, under significant pressure because of deterioration in inpatient
volumes and  payer  mix, and  growth  in operating  expenses  in excess  of  the
increase  in prospective payments  under the Medicare  program. Columbia expects
that the  average  rate  of  increase  in  Medicare  prospective  payments  will
approximate  2% in 1994. In  addition, as a result  of increasing regulatory and
competitive pressures, Columbia's ability to maintain operating margins  through
price increases to non-Medicare patients is limited.

HEALTH CARE REFORM

    In  recent years,  an increasing number  of legislative  proposals have been
introduced or  proposed  in Congress  and  some state  legislatures  that  would
significantly  affect health care systems in Columbia's markets. Proposals under
consideration include cost controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms  that
increase  the  availability  of  group  health  insurance  to  small businesses,
requirements that all businesses offer  health insurance to their employees  and
creation  of  a single  government health  insurance plan  that would  cover all
citizens.

    President Clinton's health  care reform bill,  introduced as legislation  in
November  1993, includes certain measures that could significantly reduce future
payments to providers of health care services.

OTHER INFORMATION

    Resolution of  various  loss  contingencies,  including  litigation  pending
against  Columbia in the ordinary course of  business, is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.

    During 1992  Columbia  adopted  the provisions  of  Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards No.  109, "Accounting  for Income  Taxes," which increased
last year's first quarter net income by $51 million or $.36 per share. See  Note
7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

    Columbia  expects to incur  certain expenses related to  the HCA Merger, the
amounts of which have not been determined. These costs will include, among other
things, amounts  for  investment advisory  and  professional fees,  expenses  of
printing and distributing proxy materials, severance payments and provisions for
loss  related  to  the consolidation  of  the  operations of  Columbia  and HCA.
Management anticipates that these expenses will be recorded in the first quarter
of 1994.


                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
         SUPPLEMENTAL MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                      CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The Supplemental  Selected  Financial  Data  in Item  6  set  forth  certain
information  with respect to  the financial position,  results of operations and
cash flows  of  Columbia/HCA  which  should be  read  in  conjunction  with  the
following discussion and analysis.

BACKGROUND INFORMATION AND BUSINESS STRATEGY

HCA MERGER

    As  discussed in  Notes 1  and 2 of  the Notes  to Supplemental Consolidated
Financial Statements of Columbia/HCA, on October 2, 1993, Columbia entered  into
a  definitive agreement  to merge  with HCA.  This transaction  was completed on
February 10,  1994  and  will  be  accounted for  as  a  pooling  of  interests.
Accordingly, the accompanying supplemental consolidated financial statements and
financial  and  operating  data  included in  this  supplemental  discussion and
analysis give retroactive effect to the combined operations of Columbia and  HCA
for all periods presented.

GALEN MERGER

    The  Galen Merger was completed on September  1, 1993 and was also accounted
for  as  a  pooling  of  interests.  Accordingly,  the  accompanying   financial
statements  and  financial  and  operating data  included  in  this supplemental
discussion and analysis give retroactive effect to the Galen Merger and  include
the combined operations of CHC and Galen for all periods presented. In addition,
the  historical financial information related to Galen (which prior to the Galen
Merger was  reported on  a fiscal  year ending  August 31)  has been  recast  to
conform to Columbia/HCA's annual reporting period ending December 31.

SPINOFF TRANSACTION

    Prior  to the merger with CHC, Galen became a publicly held corporation as a
result of  the  Spinoff  which was  completed  on  March 1,  1993.  The  Spinoff
separated  Humana's previously integrated hospital  and managed care health plan
businesses and was effected  through the distribution of  Galen common stock  to
then  current Humana common stockholders on  a one-for-one basis. For accounting
purposes, because of  the relative  significance of the  hospital business,  the
pre-Spinoff  financial  statements  of  Galen (and  now  those  of Columbia/HCA)
include the separate results of Humana's hospital business, while the  operating
results  and  net  assets  of  Humana's  managed  care  health  plans  have been
classified as discontinued operations.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

    Columbia/HCA  primarily  operates  hospitals   and  ancillary  health   care
facilities  through either  (i) wholly owned  subsidiaries or  (ii) ownership of
controlling  interests  in  various   partnerships  in  which  subsidiaries   of
Columbia/HCA  serve  as the  managing  general partner.  Columbia/HCA's business
strategy centers on  the development  of comprehensive,  integrated health  care
delivery  networks with physicians  and other health  care providers in targeted
markets, which typically involves  significant health care facility  acquisition
and consolidation activities.

    During the past several years, hospital inpatient admission trends have been
adversely  impacted by cost  containment efforts initiated  by federal and state
governments and  various third-party  payers, including  HMOs, PPOs,  commercial
insurance  companies and employer-sponsored networks. In addition, a significant
number of  medical procedures  have  shifted from  inpatient to  less  expensive
outpatient  settings as a result of both cost containment pressures and advances
in medical technology.

    In response  to  changes  in  the health  care  industry,  Columbia/HCA  has
developed the following operating strategy to provide the highest quality health
care services at the lowest posible cost:


        BECOME  A SIGNIFICANT PROVIDER OF SERVICES  --  Columbia/HCA attempts to
    (i) consolidate services  to reduce  costs and (ii)  develop the  geographic
    coverage necessary for inclusion in most managed care and employer-sponsored
    networks in each market.

        PROVIDE  A  COMPREHENSIVE  RANGE OF  SERVICES  --   In  addition  to the
    operation of  general,  acute  care hospitals,  Columbia/HCA  also  operates
    psychiatric and rehabilitation facilities, outpatient surgery and diagnostic
    centers,  home  health agencies  and other  services. This  strategy enables
    Columbia/HCA to attract business from managed care plans and major employers
    seeking efficient access to a wide array of health care services.

        DELIVER  HIGH  QUALITY  SERVICES  --    Through  the  use  of   clinical
    information  systems, Columbia  focuses on  patient outcomes  and strives to
    continuously improve the quality of care and service provided to patients.

        INTEGRATE  FRAGMENTED  DELIVERY  SYSTEMS  --    Through  its   networks,
    Columbia/HCA  focuses  on  coordinating  pricing,  contracting,  information
    systems and quality assurance activities among providers in each market.

    Management  intends  to  implement  its   strategy  discussed  above  in   a
substantial  number of former Galen and HCA  markets as well as new markets, and
further develop the integrated health care networks in its five pre-Galen Merger
markets.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    At the time of the HCA  Merger, Columbia/HCA operated 195 hospitals  (43,075
licensed  beds)  and certain  ancillary health  care  facilities in  forty major
markets located in twenty-six states  and two foreign countries. Operating  data
related to the pre-HCA Merger entities follows (dollars in millions):



    Revenues  increased 3% to  $10.3 billion in  1993 and 3%  to $9.9 billion in
1992. Increases  in  both  periods  resulted  primarily  from  price  increases,
acquisitions and growth in outpatient services.


    During  1992  and  1993, Columbia/HCA  completed  numerous  acquisitions and
divestitures of hospitals, most of which are  discussed in Notes 5 and 6 of  the
Notes  to Supplemental  Consolidated Financial  Statements. The  following table
summarizes percentage  changes  in  same-hospital volumes  for  each  respective
period of 1993 compared to the same period of 1992, and changes in same-hospital
volumes in for period of 1992 compared to the same period of 1991.



    In   addition  to  the  above,  same-hospital  outpatient  volumes  for  CHC
facilities increased 9.5% in 1993 and 39% in 1992, while such volumes for  Galen
facilities  declined  3.6%  and  1.5%,  respectively.  Same-hospital  outpatient
volumes for HCA (denominated differently than those of CHC and Galen)  increased
9.6% in 1993 and 14.6% in 1992 compared to the respective prior year.

    Since it began operations in 1988, CHC had experienced significant growth in
patient  volumes, revenues and  net income, primarily as  a result of successful
implementation of its strategy.

    The historical operating  results of  Galen's hospitals  (which include  the
hospital  operations of Humana prior to the Spinoff) had been adversely impacted
as a result of  such hospitals' pre-Spinoff  relationship with Humana's  managed
care  health plan  business in  certain markets.  Management believes  that this
relationship caused some physicians to  discontinue referrals of their  patients
to  the company's hospitals, and had  precluded these hospitals from contracting
with unaffiliated insurers. In addition,  Galen's volume of patients covered  by
traditional   insurance  (who   pay  amounts  which   more  closely  approximate
established charges) declined  significantly in  1992 due in  part to  increased
price  consciousness of patients and physicians  with respect to Galen's pricing
policies. Same-hospital volume trends at  former Galen facilities have  improved
in  1993 primarily as a result of increased volumes from discounted managed care
health plans other than Humana.

    During 1993 HCA facilities experienced declines in inpatient admissions  and
increases  in  outpatient  volumes  primarily  as  a  result  of  the previously
discussed  cost  containment  efforts  and  outpatient  utilization  trends.  In
addition, volumes in HCA's psychiatric facilities had been adversely impacted in
both 1992 and 1993 as a result of negative publicity in the psychiatric hospital
industry.

    Despite declines in same-hospital admissions and deterioration in payer mix,
EBDITA  for Columbia/HCA increased 4% to $2 billion in 1993 from $1.9 billion in
1992. EBDITA margins improved slightly to 19.5% from 19.4% primarily as a result
of improvements  in  staffing levels  and  increased medical  supply  discounts.
Medicare  admissions as a  percentage of total admissions  increased from 37% in
1992 to 39% in 1993, while discounted and managed care admissions grew from  32%
to  35%, respectively. EBDITA declined 3% in 1992  from 1991 due to a decline in
same-hospital admissions at former Galen facilities and deterioration in Galen's
payer mix.


    During the  third  quarter  of  1993,  Columbia/HCA  recorded  non-recurring
charges  of $151 million ($98 million net of  tax) of costs related to the Galen
Merger.

    Results of operations in 1992 include (i) $394 million ($330 million net  of
tax)  of losses  associated with  divestitures of  certain hospitals,  (ii) $138
million ($86 million net of tax) of  costs related primarily to the Spinoff  and
(iii)  a gain of $93 million ($58 million net of tax) on the sale of HealthTrust
common stock.

    Income from continuing  operations in  1991 includes  (i) a  charge of  $413
million ($256 million net of tax) in connection with the acceleration of vesting
of  stock  options  under  the  HCA  Nonqualified  Stock  Option  Plan  and  the
establishment of exercise prices at levels substantially less than the then fair
value of the underlying common stock, (ii) a charge of $159 million ($99 net  of
tax)  primarily in  connection with the  anticipated loss on  the disposition of
certain hospitals and other assets, (iii) a gain of $51 million ($32 million net
of tax) on the sale of a hospital, and (iv) a gain of $221 million ($162 million
net of tax)  on the sale  of an investment  in preferred stock  and warrants  of
HealthTrust.

    See  Note 5 of  the Notes to  Supplemental Consolidated Financial Statements
for a discussion of non-recurring transactions.

    Excluding  the  effects  of  the  non-recurring  transactions,  income  from
continuing  operations increased 13%  to $673 million ($1.99  per share) in 1993
and 16% to $597 million  ($1.82 per share) in  1992. Improvements in both  years
resulted  primarily from reductions in interest  expense, and in 1993, growth in
EBDITA.

    During the third  quarter of 1993,  in an effort  to reduce future  interest
expense  and eliminate certain restrictive  covenants, Columbia/HCA effected the
refinancing of  $787 million  of  its long-term  debt  (bearing interest  at  an
average  rate of 8.5%)  primarily through the issuance  of commercial paper, and
renegotiated  HCA's   bank   credit  agreement   (subsequently   replaced   upon
consummation  of  the  HCA  Merger).  After-tax  losses  from  these refinancing
activities aggregated $84 million or $.24 per share.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

    Results of operations  include income  from discontinued  operations of  $16
million  in 1993, a  loss of $125 million  in 1992 and income  of $16 million in
1991. Losses from discontinued operations in 1992 include costs of $135  million
(net of tax) incurred by Humana in connection with the Spinoff.

LIQUIDITY

    Cash  provided by continuing operations totaled  $1.3 billion in each of the
last three years.  Cash flows  in excess of  Columbia/HCA's capital  expenditure
program  were used primarily  to reduce long-term  debt. Working capital totaled
$573 million at December 31, 1993 compared to $606 million at December 31, 1992.
Management believes that cash flows from operations and amounts available  under
Columbia/HCA's revolving credit facilities and related commercial paper programs
are sufficient to meet expected future liquidity needs.

    Investments   of   the  Columbia/HCA's   professional   liability  insurance
subsidiaries to maintain statutory  equity and pay  claims totaled $778  million
and $709 million at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

    In  September 1993 the Board of Directors initiated the payment of a regular
quarterly cash dividend of  $.03 per common  share. Management anticipates  that
this dividend policy will continue after consummation of the HCA Merger.

CAPITAL RESOURCES

    Excluding  acquisitions, capital  expenditures totaled $836  million in 1993
compared to  $668 million  in 1992  and $645  million in  1991. Planned  capital
expenditures  in 1994 (excluding acquisitions)  are expected to approximate $800
million. Management believes that its capital expenditure program is adequate to
expand, improve and equip existing health care facilities.


    In addition, Columbia/HCA expended $79 million, $36 million and $96  million
for  acquisitions during 1993,  1992 and 1991,  respectively. See Note  6 of the
Notes to Supplemental  Consolidated Financial  Statements for  a description  of
these activities.

    As part of its business strategy, Columbia/HCA intends to acquire additional
health  care facilities in the future. Since December 31, 1993, Columbia/HCA has
expended $114 million toward  the purchase of four  hospitals (or a  controlling
interest therein) containing 1,264 licensed beds. These transactions, which will
be  accounted  for by  the purchase  method,  were financed  through the  use of
internally generated funds and issuance of long-term debt.

    Columbia/HCA expects  to finance  all capital  expenditures with  internally
generated  and borrowed  funds. Available sources  of capital  include public or
private debt, commercial  paper, unused  bank revolving credits  and equity.  At
December 31, 1993, there were projects under construction which had an estimated
additional cost to complete of approximately $299 million.

    In  connection with the Spinoff, common  stockholders' equity was reduced by
$802 million in 1993 as a result of the following transactions with Humana:  (i)
distribution  of the net assets  of the health plan  business ($392 million) and
the net assets of a hospital facility ($25 million), (ii) payment of cash  ($135
million)  and (iii) issuance of notes  ($250 million). The notes were refinanced
in September 1993. Including the pro forma  effect of the Spinoff, the ratio  of
debt  to debt plus common stockholders' equity improved from 58% at December 31,
1992 to 52% at December 31, 1993.

    Upon consummation of the HCA  Merger in February 1994, Columbia/HCA  entered
into  revolving  credit agreements  in the  aggregate amount  of $3  billion and
refinanced certain HCA and other long-term debt. The refinancings were  effected
primarily through the issuance of commercial paper, $175 million of 6 1/2% Notes
due  1999 and $150 million of 7.15%  Notes due 2004. Management anticipates that
losses resulting from  these refinancing activities  will reduce  Columbia/HCA's
first quarter 1994 net income by approximately $80 million.

    Columbia's  credit facilities contain customary  covenants which include (i)
limitations on additional debt, (ii) limitations on sales of assets, mergers and
changes of ownership and (iii) maintenance of certain interest coverage  ratios.
Columbia/HCA was in compliance with all such covenants at December 31, 1993.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES

    Various  federal, state  and local laws  have been enacted  that, in certain
cases, limit Columbia/ HCA's ability  to increase prices. Revenues for  hospital
services  rendered  to  Medicare  patients  are  established  under  the federal
government's prospective payment system. Medicare revenues approximated 34%, 30%
and 29% of revenues in 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

    Management believes  that  hospital operating  margins  have been,  and  may
continue to be, under significant pressure because of deterioration in inpatient
volumes  and  payer mix,  and  growth in  operating  expenses in  excess  of the
increase in prospective  payments under the  Medicare program. Columbia  expects
that  the  average  rate  of  increase  in  Medicare  prospective  payments will
approximate 2% in 1994.  In addition, as a  result of increasing regulatory  and
competitive  pressures,  Columbia/HCA's  ability to  maintain  operating margins
through price increases to non-Medicare patients is limited.

HEALTH CARE REFORM

    In recent years,  an increasing  number of legislative  proposals have  been
introduced  or  proposed  in Congress  and  some state  legislatures  that would
significantly affect health  care systems in  Columbia/HCA's markets.  Proposals
under consideration include cost controls on hospitals, insurance market reforms
that  increase the availability  of group health  insurance to small businesses,
requirements that all businesses offer  health insurance to their employees  and
creation  of  a single  government health  insurance plan  that would  cover all
citizens.


    President Clinton's health  care reform bill,  introduced as legislation  in
November  1993, includes certain measures that could significantly reduce future
payments to providers of health care services.

OTHER INFORMATION

    As discussed in Note 7 of  the Notes to Supplemental Consolidated  Financial
Statements, Columbia/HCA is contesting certain income taxes and related interest
aggregating  $1.3 billion at December 31,  1993 proposed by the Internal Revenue
Service  (the  "Service")  for  prior  years.  Management  believes  that  final
resolution  of these  disputes will  not have a  material adverse  effect on the
financial position, results of operations or liquidity of Columbia/HCA. However,
if all or a majority of the  positions of the Service are upheld, the  financial
position,   results  of  operations  and  liquidity  of  Columbia/HCA  would  be
materially adversely affected.

    On March  24, 1994,  Columbia/HCA made  an  advance payment  to the  IRS  of
approximately  $75 million in connection with certain disputed prior year income
taxes and related interest. This transaction will not have a material effect  on
1994 earnings.

    Resolution of various other loss contingencies, including litigation pending
against  Columbia/ HCA in  the ordinary course  of business, is  not expected to
have a  material  adverse  effect  on  its  financial  position  or  results  of
operations.

    During  1992 Columbia/HCA adopted  the provisions of  Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No.  109, "Accounting  for Income  Taxes," which  increased
last  year's first quarter net income by $51 million or $.16 per share. See Note
7 of the Notes to Supplemental Consolidated Financial Statements.

    Columbia/HCA expects to incur  certain expenses related  to the HCA  Merger,
the  amounts of which have not been  determined. These costs will include, among
other things, amounts for investment advisory and professional fees, expenses of
printing and distributing proxy materials, severance payments and provisions for
loss related  to  the consolidation  of  the  operations of  Columbia  and  HCA.
Management anticipates that these expenses will be recorded in the first quarter
of 1994.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

    Information  with respect  to this Item  8 is contained  in the Consolidated
Financial Statements and  Financial Statement Schedules  of Columbia  Healthcare
Corporation and the Supplemental Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial
Statement  Schedules of  the Company  included in the  Indexes on  Pages F-1 and
F-30, respectively, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    Not Applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

    The information  required  by this  Item  is  set forth  under  the  heading
"Election  of Directors" in the definitive proxy  materials of the Company to be
filed in connection with its 1994 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, except for the
information regarding executive officers of  the Company, which is contained  in
Item 1 of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information required by
this Item contained in such definitive proxy materials is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

    The  information  required  by this  Item  is  set forth  under  the heading
"Executive Compensation" in the definitive proxy materials of the Company to  be
filed  in  connection  with  its  1994  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

    The information  required  by this  Item  is  set forth  under  the  heading
"Principal  Stockholders" in the definitive proxy materials of the Company to be
filed in  connection  with  its  1994  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders,  which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

    The  information  required  by this  Item  is  set forth  under  the heading
"Certain Transactions" in the  definitive proxy materials of  the Company to  be
filed  in  connection  with  its  1994  Annual  Meeting  of  Stockholders, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

    (a) Documents filed as part of the report:

     1. and 2.LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.

              The accompanying Index  to Consolidated  Financial Statements  and
              Financial  Statement Schedules of  Columbia Healthcare Corporation
              and Index to  Supplemental Consolidated  Financial Statements  and
              Financial  Statement  Schedules of  the Company  on Pages  F-1 and
              F-30, respectively,  of  this  Annual  Report  on  Form  10-K  are
              provided in response to this Item.

     3.       LIST OF EXHIBITS.












    (b) Reports on Form 8-K.




                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated: March 31, 1994

                                          COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION

                                          By: _______/s/_RICHARD L. SCOTT_______
                                              Richard L. Scott
                                             President and Chief Executive
                                              Officer

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.








                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



                                      F-1

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation

    We  have  audited  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and   financial
statement  schedules of Columbia  Healthcare Corporation listed  in the index on
page F-1 of this Form 10-K.  These financial statements and financial  statement
schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
is  to express an opinion on  these financial statements and financial statement
schedules based on our audits.

    We conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial  statements referred to above present  fairly,
in  all  material  respects,  the consolidated  financial  position  of Columbia
Healthcare Corporation as of  December 31, 1993 and  1992, and the  consolidated
results  of operations and cash flows for each  of the three years in the period
ended December  31,  1993  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting
principles.  In  addition, in  our  opinion, the  financial  statement schedules
referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a  whole, present  fairly, in  all material  respects, the  information
required to be included therein.

    As  discussed in Note 7 to  the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 1992, the  Company adopted the provisions  of Statement of  Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes."

COOPERS & LYBRAND
Louisville, Kentucky
February 28, 1994

                                      F-2

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                     the consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                           DECEMBER 31, 1993 AND 1992
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

                                     ASSETS



                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                     the consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-4

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                     the consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-5

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
                     the consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-6

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES
    Columbia Healthcare Corporation ("Columbia") is a Delaware corporation which
began operations on September 1, 1993 as a result of a merger involving Columbia
Hospital  Corporation ("CHC") and Galen Health  Care, Inc. ("Galen") (the "Galen
Merger"). See  Note 2  for a  description of  the specific  terms of  the  Galen
Merger.   Columbia  primarily  operates  hospitals  and  ancillary  health  care
facilities through either  (i) wholly  owned subsidiaries or  (ii) ownership  of
controlling  interests in various partnerships in which subsidiaries of Columbia
serve as the managing general partner.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The  consolidated  financial   statements  include   all  subsidiaries   and
partnerships controlled by Columbia as the managing general partner. Significant
intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

    For  accounting purposes, the Galen Merger has  been treated as a pooling of
interests. Accordingly, the  consolidated financial  statements included  herein
give  retroactive effect to the transaction  and include the combined operations
of CHC  and  Galen  for  all periods  presented.  In  addition,  the  historical
financial  information related  to Galen  (which prior  to the  Galen Merger was
reported on  a fiscal  year ending  August 31)  has been  recast to  conform  to
Columbia's annual reporting period ending December 31.

    On  February 10,  1994, Columbia consummated  a merger with  HCA -- Hospital
Corporation of America ("HCA") (the "HCA Merger"). Although the HCA Merger  will
be  treated as a pooling of  interests for accounting purposes, the accompanying
consolidated financial  statements  do  not  give  retroactive  effect  to  this
transaction. See Note 3 for a description of the HCA Merger.

REVENUES

    Columbia's   health  care  facilities  have  entered  into  agreements  with
third-party payers, including government programs and managed care health plans,
under which Columbia is paid based  upon established charges, cost of  providing
services,  predetermined rates by  diagnosis, fixed per  diem rates or discounts
from established charges.

    Revenues are recorded at estimated amounts due from patients and third-party
payers for  health care  services  provided, including  anticipated  settlements
under reimbursement agreements with third-party payers.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with an original
maturity  of three months or less. Carrying  values of cash and cash equivalents
approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

    Accounts receivable consist primarily of  amounts due from the Medicare  and
Medicaid  programs,  other  government  programs,  managed  care  health  plans,
commercial insurance companies and individual patients.

INVENTORIES

    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (last-in, first-out) or market.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Depreciation expense, computed by the straight-line method, was $279 million
in 1993, $264 million in 1992 and $241 million in 1991. Columbia uses  component
depreciation  for buildings. Depreciation rates  for buildings are equivalent to
useful lives ranging generally  from 20 to 25  years. Estimated useful lives  of
equipment vary from 3 to 10 years.

                                      F-7

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1 -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
INVESTMENTS

    On  December  31,  1993, Columbia  adopted  the provisions  of  Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 115,  "Accounting for Certain Investments  in
Debt  and Equity  Securities" ("SFAS 115"),  which requires  that investments in
debt and equity securities be classified according to certain criteria.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

    Intangible assets consist primarily of costs in excess of the fair value  of
identifiable  net  assets  of  acquired entities  and  are  amortized  using the
straight-line method  over  periods ranging  from  10 to  40  years.  Noncompete
agreement  and debt  issuance costs  are amortized based  upon the  lives of the
respective contracts or loans.

PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE CLAIMS

    Provisions  for  loss  for  professional  liability  risks  are  based  upon
actuarially   determined  estimates.  To  the   extent  that  subsequent  claims
information  varies  from  management's  estimates,  earnings  are  charged   or
credited.

MINORITY INTERESTS IN CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES

    The  consolidated financial  statements include all  assets, liabilities and
earnings of Columbia's partnerships, certain partnership interests of which  are
not  owned by Columbia. Accordingly,  management has recorded minority interests
in the earnings and equity of such partnerships.

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

    Earnings per common  share are  based upon  the weighted  average number  of
common  shares outstanding,  retroactively adjusted  for the  exchange of common
shares in connection with the Galen Merger.

    Shares used in computing earnings per common share in 1993 were 150,017,000.
The following is a summary of shares  used in the computation for periods  prior
to the Galen Merger (amounts in thousands):



NOTE 2 -- GALEN MERGER
    On  August 31,  1993, the  stockholders of both  CHC and  Galen approved the
Galen Merger, effective as  of September 1, 1993.  In connection with the  Galen
Merger,  CHC, a Nevada corporation, was merged  into Columbia. Each CHC share of
common stock was converted on a tax-free basis into one share of Columbia common
stock. Immediately subsequent thereto, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia was
merged into  Galen, at  which time  Galen became  a wholly  owned subsidiary  of
Columbia.  In connection  with this  transaction, Columbia  issued approximately
123,830,000 shares  of  common stock  in  a tax-free  exchange  for all  of  the
outstanding  common shares of  Galen (an exchange  ratio of 0.775  of a share of
Columbia common stock for each share of Galen common stock).

                                      F-8

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 2 -- GALEN MERGER (CONTINUED)
    The Galen  Merger has  been accounted  for as  a pooling  of interests,  and
accordingly,  the consolidated  financial statements give  retroactive effect to
the combined  operations  of  CHC  and Galen  for  all  periods  presented.  The
following is a summary of the results of operations of the separate entities for
periods prior to the Galen Merger (dollars in millions):



NOTE 3 -- HCA MERGER
    On  October 2, 1993,  Columbia entered into a  definitive agreement to merge
with HCA. This  transaction was completed  on February 10,  1994. In  connection
with  the HCA Merger, Columbia stockholders  approved an amendment to Columbia's
Certificate  of  Incorporation   changing  the  name   of  the  corporation   to
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation ("Columbia/HCA"). HCA was then merged into a
wholly  owned subsidiary  of Columbia/HCA. Shares  of HCA Class  A voting common
stock and Class B nonvoting common stock were converted on a tax-free basis into
approximately  166,846,000  shares  of  Columbia/HCA  voting  common  stock  and
approximately   18,990,000  shares  of   Columbia/HCA  nonvoting  common  stock,
respectively (an exchange ratio of 1.05 shares of Columbia/ HCA common stock for
each share of HCA voting and nonvoting common stock).

    These financial statements do not give retroactive effect to the HCA Merger,
which will be  accounted for  as a pooling  of interests.  See the  Supplemental
Consolidated   Financial  Statements  of   Columbia/HCA  Healthcare  Corporation
included elsewhere herein for additional information regarding the HCA Merger.

NOTE 4 -- SPINOFF TRANSACTION AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
    Prior to the Galen Merger, Galen began operating its hospital business as an
independent publicly held corporation on March 1, 1993 as a result of a tax-free
spinoff transaction (the  "Spinoff") by Humana  Inc. ("Humana"), which  retained
its managed care health plan business. The Spinoff separated Humana's previously
integrated  hospital and  managed care health  plan businesses  and was effected
through the distribution  of Galen common  stock to then  current Humana  common
stockholders on a one-for-one basis.

    For  accounting  purposes,  because  of  the  relative  significance  of the
hospital business, the  pre-Spinoff consolidated financial  statements of  Galen
(and  now those of  Columbia) include the separate  results of Humana's hospital
business, while the operations  and net assets of  Humana's managed care  health
plans have been classified as discontinued operations.

                                      F-9

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 4 -- SPINOFF TRANSACTION AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
    In  connection with the Spinoff, Galen  entered into various agreements with
Humana which were intended to facilitate  orderly changes for both the  hospital
and  managed  care health  plan businesses  in  a way  which would  be minimally
disruptive to each entity. Principal contracts are summarized below:

    OPERATIONS -- Certain former Galen  hospitals will provide medical  services
to  insureds of Humana for  three years subsequent to  the Spinoff. The contract
includes, among other  things, established payment  rates for various  inpatient
and  outpatient services and annual  increases therein, and hospital utilization
guarantees and related penalties.

    LIABILITIES  AND  INDEMNIFICATION  --  Each  entity  assumed  liability  for
specified  claims. The  entities will also  share risks with  respect to certain
litigation and other contingencies, both identified and unknown.

    INCOME TAXES  --  Each  entity entered  into  risk-sharing  arrangements  in
connection with the ultimate resolution of various income tax disputes.

    FINANCING  -- In  January 1993 certain  subsidiaries issued  $250 million of
notes payable to Humana,  and paid to  Humana $135 million in  cash on March  1,
1993  which was financed  principally through the  issuance of commercial paper.
The $250 million of notes were repaid  in September 1993 in connection with  the
refinancing of certain long-term debt.

    ADMINISTRATION   --  These   arrangements  relate  to   leasing  of  certain
administrative facilities, division of information systems, employee benefit and
stock option plans, and various administrative service arrangements.

    Revenues of the discontinued managed care health plan business (included  in
discontinued  operations in  the accompanying consolidated  statement of income)
were $523 million in 1993, $2.9 billion in 1992 and $2.5 billion in 1991.

NOTE 5 -- NON-RECURRING TRANSACTIONS
    In September 1993 Columbia recorded the following charges in connection with
the Galen Merger (dollars in millions):



    Income from continuing operations in  1992 includes $138 million of  charges
incurred  primarily in  connection with the  Spinoff, including  a provision for
loss on the  planned sale  of hospitals, writedowns  of assets  in markets  with
significant declines in operations, administrative facility asset writedowns and
certain  other costs associated  with the separation of  the hospital and health
plan businesses. Costs aggregating $171  million (before income taxes)  incurred
by  Humana primarily in connection with the Spinoff are included in discontinued
operations in 1992.

    Continuing operations in 1991 include a gain of $51 million on the sale of a
hospital, a provision for loss of  $46 million primarily in connection with  the
planned  disposition of  certain hospitals,  and charitable  contributions of $5
million.

                                      F-10

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 6 -- OTHER BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
    During the past  three years,  Columbia has acquired  various hospitals  and
related  ancillary  health care  facilities  (or controlling  interests  in such
facilities), all  of which  have  been accounted  for  by the  purchase  method.
Accordingly,  the  aggregate  purchase  price  of  these  transactions  has been
allocated  to  tangible   and  identifiable  intangible   assets  acquired   and
liabilities  assumed based upon  their respective fair  values. The consolidated
financial statements  include  the operations  of  acquired entities  since  the
respective acquisition dates.

    The following is a summary of acquisitions consummated during the last three
years (dollars in millions):



    In  July  1992  Columbia  acquired  Basic  American  Medical,  Inc. ("BAMI")
(included in the table above) through  a merger into a wholly owned  subsidiary.
The  assets of BAMI included eight  hospitals containing 1,203 licensed beds and
certain other health care businesses.  The transaction was financed through  the
assumption  of  approximately  $140  million  of  long-term  debt,  issuance  of
6,995,000 shares of  common stock and  payment of  $38 million in  cash to  BAMI
stockholders.

    The  purchase price  paid in  excess of the  fair value  of identifiable net
assets of acquired entities aggregated $7  million in 1993, $97 million in  1992
and $19 million in 1991.

    The pro forma effect of Columbia's acquisitions on its results of operations
was not significant.

NOTE 7 -- INCOME TAXES
    Provision for income taxes consists of the following (dollars in millions):



                                      F-11

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 7 -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    Reconciliation  of  federal  statutory  rate to  effective  income  tax rate
follows:



    In August 1993  Congress enacted  the Omnibus Budget  Reconciliation Act  of
1993  which included,  among other things,  an increase in  corporate income tax
rates retroactive to January 1, 1993. This legislation had no material effect on
1993 net income.

    Effective January 1, 1992, Columbia  adopted the provisions of Statement  of
Financial  Accounting Standards  No. 109,  "Accounting for  Income Taxes," which
requires, among  other  things,  recognition  of  deferred  income  taxes  using
statutory  rates at  which temporary  differences in the  tax and  book bases of
assets and liabilities are  expected to affect taxable  income in future  years.
The  cumulative effect of this change as  of the beginning of the year increased
1992 net income by $51 million.

    A summary of deferred  income taxes by source  included in the  consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 1993 and 1992 follows (dollars in millions):



    Management  believes that  the deferred tax  assets in the  table above will
ultimately be  realized.  Management's  conclusion is  based  primarily  on  its
expectation  of future  taxable income and  the existence  of sufficient taxable
income within the  allowable carryback periods  to realize the  tax benefits  of
deductible temporary differences recorded at December 31, 1993.

    Deferred  income taxes totaling $119 million and $96 million at December 31,
1993 and 1992, respectively,  are included in  other current assets.  Noncurrent
deferred  income  taxes, included  in  deferred credits  and  other liabilities,
totaled  $163  million  and  $162  million  at  December  31,  1993  and   1992,
respectively.

                                      F-12

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8 -- PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS

    Columbia  insures a substantial portion  of its professional liability risks
through  a  wholly  owned  insurance  subsidiary.  Provisions  for  such   risks
underwritten  by the subsidiary and  deductibles at certain hospitals, including
expenses incident  to claim  settlements,  were $64  million  for 1993  and  $58
million for both 1992 and 1991. Amounts approximating the provision for loss are
funded annually.

    Allowances   for  professional  liability  risks,  included  principally  in
deferred credits and other  liabilities, were $327 million  and $290 million  at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

    As  discussed in  Note 1,  Columbia adopted  the provisions  of SFAS  115 on
December 31, 1993. Accordingly, common stockholders' equity was increased by  $9
million  (net of deferred  income taxes) to  reflect the net  unrealized gain on
investments classified as available for sale. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 115,
debt securities were recorded at amortized cost (which approximated fair value),
while equity securities  were recorded at  the lower of  aggregate cost or  fair
value. The adoption of SFAS 115 had no effect on earnings in 1993.

    The  provisions  of SFAS  115 require  that investments  in debt  and equity
securities be classified according to the following criteria:

    TRADING ACCOUNT  -- Assets  held for  resale in  anticipation of  short-term
changes  in market conditions are  recorded at fair value  and gains and losses,
both realized and unrealized, are included in income. Columbia does not maintain
a trading account portfolio.

    HELD TO  MATURITY  -- Certain  debt  securities of  Columbia's  professional
liability  insurance subsidiary are expected to be  held to maturity as a result
of management's intent and  ability to do so.  These investments are carried  at
amortized cost.

    AVAILABLE  FOR SALE --  Debt and equity securities  not classified as either
trading securities or held to maturity are classified as available for sale  and
recorded at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are excluded from income and
recorded as a separate component of common stockholders' equity.

                                      F-13

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8 -- PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS (CONTINUED)
    The  following is  a summary  of the  insurance subsidiary's  investments at
December 31, 1993 and 1992 (dollars in millions):



                                      F-14

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8 -- PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS (CONTINUED)



    The cost and estimated fair value of debt and equity securities at  December
31, 1993 by contractual maturity are shown below (dollars in millions). Expected
and contractual maturities will differ because the issuers of certain securities
may  have  the right  to  prepay or  otherwise  redeem such  obligations without
penalty.



    The fair value of the subsidiary's investments is based generally on  quoted
market prices.

                                      F-15

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8 -- PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS (CONTINUED)
    The  average  life  of  the  above  investments  (excluding  common  stocks)
approximated four years  at December 31,  1993 and three  years at December  31,
1992,  and the tax equivalent yield on such investments averaged 9% for the last
three years.  Tax  equivalent yield  is  the  rate earned  on  invested  assets,
excluding  unrealized gains and  losses, adjusted for  the benefit of nontaxable
investment income.

    Sales of securities  for the  year ended  December 31,  1993 are  summarized
below (dollars in millions):



NOTE 9 -- LONG-TERM DEBT
    A summary of long-term debt at December 31 follows (dollars in millions):



    Borrowings  under the commercial paper  programs are classified as long-term
debt due to the credit available under the revolving credit agreements discussed
below and management's intention  to refinance these  borrowings on a  long-term
basis.

    Maturities  of  long-term  debt  (including  maturities  of  short-term debt
supported by the revolving credit agreements) in years 1995 through 1998 are $73
million, $13 million, $32 million and $1.1 billion, respectively.  Approximately
10%  of Columbia's  property and equipment  is pledged  on senior collateralized
debt.

    During the  past  three  years  Columbia  has  reduced  interest  costs  and
eliminated  certain  restrictive  covenants  by  refinancing  or  prepaying high
interest rate debt, primarily through the use of

                                      F-16

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9 -- LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
existing cash and cash equivalents and issuance of long-term debt and commercial
paper. Amounts refinanced or prepaid totaled $787 million in 1993, $116  million
in  1992 and $275 million in  1991. After-tax losses from refinancing activities
in 1993 aggregated $70 million or $.46 per share.

    In February  1994 Columbia  entered into  revolving credit  agreements  (the
"Credit  Facilities")  in  the  aggregate  amount  of  $3  billion.  The  Credit
Facilities comprise  a four-year  $1 billion  revolving credit  agreement and  a
364-day  $2  billion  revolving  credit agreement.  The  Credit  Facilities were
established to support  Columbia's commercial  paper programs  and replace  $3.2
billion  of prior revolving credit agreements associated with HCA ($1.6 billion)
and Columbia ($1.6 billion). Interest is payable generally at either LIBOR  plus
1/4%  to 1/2% (depending on  Columbia's credit rating), or  the higher of prime,
the bank certificate  of deposit rate  plus 1%  or the Federal  Funds rate  plus
1/2%.

    In  December 1993 Columbia issued $150 million  of 6 1/8% Notes due 2000 and
$150 million of 7 1/2% Notes due 2023.

    During 1992  Columbia  sold $100  million  face  amount of  10  7/8%  Senior
Subordinated  Notes due  2002 and  $135 million  face amount  of 11  1/2% Senior
Subordinated Notes due  2002. In  September 1993 Columbia  retired $232  million
face amount of these notes through the completion of a tender offer.

    In  connection  with  the  acquisition of  BAMI  in  1992,  Columbia assumed
approximately $140  million  of  long-term  debt,  including  approximately  $64
million of senior collateralized notes payable in quarterly installments through
1998  at interest rates ranging from 10.7%  to 11.7%. In September 1993 Columbia
effected the defeasance of these notes.

    In 1991 one of Columbia's partnerships  issued $95 million of 11.45%  Senior
Secured  Notes  due 2001.  Proceeds from  the  issuance were  used to  repay $66
million of  bank  debt  and  finance expansion.  These  notes  were  retired  in
connection  with Columbia's refinancing of debt in September 1993. Columbia also
issued in 1991 a $40 million  face amount 9% Subordinated Mandatory  Convertible
Note due 1999. The note is convertible at the option of the holder into Columbia
common  stock  at  a price  of  $18.50  per share  (adjusted  for  stock splits,
recapitalizations and reorganizations). The note will be automatically converted
into common  stock  if  the average  per  share  market price  for  four  months
preceding  the July 1 anniversary exceeds a specified amount ranging from $27.00
in 1994 to $34.00 in 1996.

    Columbia's credit facilities contain  customary covenants which include  (i)
limitations on additional debt, (ii) limitations on sales of assets, mergers and
changes of ownership and (iii) maintenance of certain interest coverage ratios.

    The  estimated fair value of Columbia's  long-term debt was $1.7 billion and
$1.46 billion at December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively, compared to  carrying
amounts  aggregating $1.65  billion and  $1.29 billion.  Certain subsidiaries of
Columbia have entered  into agreements  which reduce  the impact  of changes  in
interest  rates on $380 million of floating rate long-term debt. At December 31,
1993 and 1992,  the fair value  of Columbia's net  payable position under  these
agreements  (included in  the aggregate  fair value  amounts above)  totaled $34
million and $29 million, respectively. The estimate of fair value is based  upon
the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues of long-term debt, or on
rates available to Columbia as a result of the Galen Merger for debt of the same
remaining maturities.

    As discussed in Note 4, in connection with the Spinoff, certain subsidiaries
issued  notes  payable  ($250  million) and  paid  cash  ($135  million financed
primarily through the issuance  of commercial paper) to  Humana in 1993. If  the
Spinoff had occurred on December 31, 1992, Columbia's ratio of debt to debt plus
common stockholders' equity would have increased from 36% to 53%.

                                      F-17

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 10 -- LEASES
    Columbia   leases   real   estate  and   equipment   under   cancelable  and
non-cancelable  arrangements.  Future  minimum  payments  under   non-cancelable
operating leases are as follows (dollars in millions):



    Rent  expense aggregated  $79 million, $82  million and $72  million for the
years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

NOTE 11 -- CONTINGENCIES
    Management continually evaluates contingencies based upon the best available
evidence. In addition, allowances for  loss are provided currently for  disputed
items   that  have   continuing  significance,   such  as   certain  third-party
reimbursements and  deductions  that continue  to  be claimed  in  current  cost
reports and tax returns.

    Management  believes  that allowances  for loss  have  been provided  to the
extent necessary  and  that  its  assessment  of  contingencies  is  reasonable.
Management  believes that resolution of contingencies will not materially affect
Columbia's financial position or results of operations.

    Principal contingencies are described below:

    REVENUES --  Certain  third-party payments  are  subject to  examination  by
agencies  administering  the  programs. Columbia  is  contesting  certain issues
raised in audits of prior year cost reports.

    PROFESSIONAL  LIABILITY  RISKS  --  Columbia  has  provided  for  loss   for
professional liability risks based upon actuarially determined estimates. Actual
settlements  and expenses  incident thereto may  differ from  the provisions for
loss.

    INTEREST RATE AGREEMENTS -- Certain subsidiaries of Columbia are parties  to
agreements  which reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on its floating
rate long-term debt. In  the event of nonperformance  by other parties to  these
agreements, Columbia may incur a loss on the difference between market rates and
contract rates.

    INCOME  TAXES -- Columbia is contesting adjustments proposed by the Internal
Revenue Service for years 1987 through 1989.

    SPINOFF --  Certain subsidiaries  of Columbia  are parties  to  risk-sharing
arrangements with Humana.

    LITIGATION  -- Various  suits and claims  arising in the  ordinary course of
business are pending against Columbia.

                                      F-18

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 12 -- CAPITAL STOCK
    The following shares  of common  stock were  reserved at  December 31,  1993
(amounts in thousands):



    Columbia  has  plans under  which options  to purchase  common stock  may be
granted to officers, employees and directors.  Options have been granted at  not
less  than market price on the date of grant. Exercise provisions vary, but most
options are exercisable in whole  or in part beginning  one to four years  after
grant  and  ending four  to  ten years  after grant.  Activity  in the  plans is
summarized below (share amounts in thousands):



    At December 31, 1993, options for 2,028,900 shares were exercisable.  Shares
of  common stock available for  future grants were 707,300  at December 31, 1993
and 2,721,000 at December 31, 1992.

    In connection with  the Galen  Merger, Columbia  redeemed certain  preferred
stock  purchase rights previously issued to  Galen common stockholders. The cost
of this  transaction  was  not  significant. In  addition,  Columbia  adopted  a
stockholder  rights plan  (similar to  that of  Galen) upon  consummation of the
Galen Merger under which common stockholders have the right to purchase Series A
Preferred Stock in  the event  of accumulation of  or tender  offer for  certain
percentages  of Columbia's common  stock. The rights will  expire in 2003 unless
redeemed earlier by Columbia.

    In September 1993 the Board of Directors initiated a regular quarterly  cash
dividend on common stock of $.03 per share.

    In  connection with the HCA Merger,  Columbia stockholders voted to increase
the aggregate  number of  authorized  voting shares  of  common stock  from  400
million  to 800 million, and the number of authorized nonvoting shares of common
stock was established at 25 million. In addition, authorized shares of preferred
stock (none  of which  are outstanding)  were increased  from 10  million to  25
million.

                                      F-19

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 13 -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
    Certain   subsidiaries  of  Columbia   maintain  a  noncontributory  defined
contribution retirement  plan  covering substantially  all  Columbia  employees.
Benefits are determined as a percentage of a participant's earned income and are
vested  annually. Retirement plan expense was  $40 million for 1993, $37 million
for 1992 and $34 million for 1991. Amounts equal to retirement plan expense  are
funded annually.

    Columbia maintains various contributory savings plans which are available to
employees who meet certain minimum requirements. The plans require that Columbia
match  an amount ranging from  50% to 60% of  a participant's contribution up to
certain maximum levels. The  cost of these plans  totaled $20 million for  1993,
$19 million for 1992 and $15 million for 1991. Columbia contributions are funded
periodically during the year.

NOTE 14 -- ACCRUED EXPENSES
    The following is a summary of other accrued expenses at December 31 (dollars
in millions):



                                      F-20

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
            QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)





                                      F-21

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
       SCHEDULE I -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES -- OTHER SECURITY INVESTMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1993
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-22

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             SCHEDULE II -- AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES
     AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                                      F-23

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             SCHEDULE II -- AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES
     AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                                      F-24

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
             SCHEDULE II - AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES
     AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                                      F-25

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                  SCHEDULE V -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-26

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
               SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION
               AND AMORTIZATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-27

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
               SCHEDULE VIII -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-28

                        COLUMBIA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
            SCHEDULE X -- SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-29

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
            INDEX TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



                                      F-30

                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders
Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation

    We have  audited  the  supplemental consolidated  financial  statements  and
financial  statement schedules of Columbia/HCA  Healthcare Corporation listed in
the index  on  page F-30  of  this Form  10-K.  These financial  statements  and
financial   statement  schedules   are  the  responsibility   of  the  Company's
management. Our  responsibility is  to  express an  opinion on  these  financial
statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

    We  conducted  our audits  in  accordance with  generally  accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also  includes
assessing  the  accounting principles  used  and significant  estimates  made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement  presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    The  supplemental consolidated financial  statements and financial statement
schedules  give  retroactive  effect  to  the  merger  of  Columbia   Healthcare
Corporation  and HCA  -- Hospital Corporation  of America on  February 10, 1994,
which will be accounted for  as a pooling of interests  as described in Notes  1
and  2 to the supplemental consolidated financial statements. Generally accepted
accounting  principles  proscribe  giving  effect  to  a  consummated   business
combination  accounted  for  by the  pooling  of interests  method  in financial
statements that  do  not  include  the date  of  consummation.  These  financial
statements  and financial statement schedules do  not extend through the date of
consummation; however, they  will become the  historical consolidated  financial
statements   and  financial  statement   schedules  of  Columbia/HCA  Healthcare
Corporation  after  financial  statements  and  financial  statement   schedules
covering the date of consummation of the merger are issued.

    In  our opinion, the financial statements  referred to above present fairly,
in all material  respects, the consolidated  financial position of  Columbia/HCA
Healthcare  Corporation as of  December 31, 1993 and  1992, and the consolidated
results of operations and cash flows for  each of the three years in the  period
ended  December  31,  1993  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted accounting
principles applicable after financial statements are issued for the period which
includes the date of  consummation of the merger.  In addition, in our  opinion,
the financial statement schedules referred to above, when considered in relation
to  the basic  financial statements  taken as  a whole,  present fairly,  in all
material respects, the information required to be included therein.

    As  discussed  in  Note  7   to  the  supplemental  consolidated   financial
statements,  effective January  1, 1992, the  Company adopted  the provisions of
Statement of  Financial Accounting  Standards No.  109, "Accounting  for  Income
Taxes."

COOPERS & LYBRAND
Louisville, Kentucky
February 28, 1994,
except for Note 15,
as to which the date
is March 24, 1994

                                      F-31

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                 SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
              the supplemental consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-32

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                    SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                           DECEMBER 31, 1993 AND 1992
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

                                     ASSETS



                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
              the supplemental consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-33

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
       SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
              the supplemental consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-34

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
               SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                 The accompanying notes are an integral part of
              the supplemental consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-35

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES
    Columbia/HCA   Healthcare   Corporation  ("Columbia/HCA")   is   a  Delaware
corporation which began operations on February 10, 1994 as a result of a  merger
involving  Columbia  Healthcare  Corporation ("Columbia")  and  HCA  -- Hospital
Corporation of America ("HCA") (the "HCA Merger"). See Note 2 for a  description
of the specific terms of the HCA Merger.

    Prior to the HCA Merger, Columbia began operations on September 1, 1993 as a
result  of a  merger involving Columbia  Hospital Corporation  ("CHC") and Galen
Health Care, Inc. ("Galen") (the "Galen  Merger"). See Note 3 for a  description
of the specific terms of the Galen Merger.

    Columbia/HCA   primarily  operates  hospitals   and  ancillary  health  care
facilities through either  (i) wholly  owned subsidiaries or  (ii) ownership  of
controlling   interests  in  various  partnerships   in  which  subsidiaries  of
Columbia/HCA serve as the managing general partner.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The supplemental consolidated financial statements include substantially all
subsidiaries and partnerships controlled by Columbia/HCA as the managing general
partner. Significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated.

    The HCA  Merger  and  the  Galen  Merger have  been  accounted  for  by  the
pooling-of-interests   method.   Accordingly,   the   supplemental  consolidated
financial  statements  included   herein  give  retroactive   effect  to   these
transactions  and include the combined operations of  CHC, Galen and HCA for all
periods presented. In addition, the historical financial information related  to
Galen  (which prior  to the Galen  Merger was  reported on a  fiscal year ending
August 31) has  been recast  to conform  to Columbia's  annual reporting  period
ending December 31.

    Generally  accepted  accounting  principles  proscribe  giving  effect  to a
consummated business  combination  accounted  for  by  the  pooling-of-interests
method  in financial  statements that do  not include the  date of consummation.
These financial statements do not extend through the date of consummation of the
HCA Merger;  however, they  will become  the historical  consolidated  financial
statements  of Columbia/HCA after the financial statements including the date of
consummation of the HCA Merger are issued.

REVENUES

    Columbia/HCA's health  care facilities  have  entered into  agreements  with
third-party payers, including government programs and managed care health plans,
under  which  Columbia/HCA  is  paid based  upon  established  charges,  cost of
providing services, predetermined rates  by diagnosis, fixed  per diem rates  or
discounts from established charges.

    Revenues are recorded at estimated amounts due from patients and third-party
payers  for  health care  services  provided, including  anticipated settlements
under reimbursement agreements with third-party payers.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of three months or less.  Carrying values of cash and cash  equivalents
approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

    Accounts  receivable consist primarily of amounts  due from the Medicare and
Medicaid  programs,  other  government  programs,  managed  care  health  plans,
commercial insurance companies and individual patients.

                                      F-36

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1 -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
INVENTORIES

    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market.

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

    Depreciation expense, computed by the straight-line method, was $504 million
in  1993,  $493 million  in 1992  and  $478 million  in 1991.  Columbia/HCA uses
component depreciation  for  buildings.  Depreciation rates  for  buildings  are
equivalent  to useful  lives ranging  generally from  20 to  25 years. Estimated
useful lives of equipment vary generally from 3 to 10 years.

INVESTMENTS

    On December 31, 1993,  Columbia/HCA adopted the  provisions of Statement  of
Financial  Accounting Standards No. 115,  "Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity  Securities" ("SFAS  115"), which requires  that investments  in
debt and equity securities be classified according to certain criteria.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

    Intangible  assets consist primarily of costs in excess of the fair value of
identifiable net  assets  of  acquired  entities and  are  amortized  using  the
straight-line  method over periods  ranging from 10 to  40 years. Noncompete and
debt issuance  costs  are amortized  based  upon  the lives  of  the  respective
contracts or loans.

PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE CLAIMS

    Provisions  for  loss  for  professional  liability  risks  are  based  upon
actuarially  determined  estimates.  To   the  extent  that  subsequent   claims
information   varies  from  management's  estimates,  earnings  are  charged  or
credited.

MINORITY INTERESTS IN CONSOLIDATED ENTITIES

    The supplemental  consolidated  financial  statements  include  all  assets,
liabilities  and  earnings of  Columbia/HCA's partnerships,  certain partnership
interests of which are not owned  by Columbia/ HCA. Accordingly, management  has
recorded minority interests in the earnings and equity of such partnerships.

EARNINGS PER COMMON AND COMMON EQUIVALENT SHARE

    Earnings  per common and common equivalent share are based upon the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding adjusted for the dilutive effect  of
common  stock equivalents consisting primarily of stock options. The computation
also gives retroactive  effect to the  exchange of common  shares in  connection
with the HCA Merger.

                                      F-37

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1 -- ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    The following is a summary of shares used in the computation of earnings per
common and common equivalent share (amounts in thousands):



    Fully  diluted  earnings  per  common and  common  equivalent  share  is not
presented because  it approximates  earnings per  common and  common  equivalent
share.

NOTE 2 -- HCA MERGER
    On  October 2, 1993,  Columbia entered into a  definitive agreement to merge
with HCA. This  transaction was completed  on February 10,  1994. In  connection
with  the HCA Merger, Columbia stockholders  approved an amendment to Columbia's
Certificate  of  Incorporation   changing  the  name   of  the  corporation   to
Columbia/HCA  Healthcare Corporation.  HCA was then  merged into  a wholly owned
subsidiary of Columbia/HCA. Shares of HCA Class A voting common stock and  Class
B  nonvoting common stock were converted  on a tax-free basis into approximately
166,846,000  shares  of  Columbia/HCA  voting  common  stock  and  approximately
18,990,000  shares  of  Columbia/HCA nonvoting  common  stock,  respectively (an
exchange ratio of 1.05 shares of Columbia/HCA common stock for each share of HCA
voting and nonvoting common stock).

                                      F-38

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 2 -- HCA MERGER (CONTINUED)
    The HCA  Merger  has been  accounted  for as  a  pooling of  interests,  and
accordingly, the supplemental consolidated financial statements give retroactive
effect to the combined operations of Columbia and HCA for all periods presented.
The following is a summary of the results of operations of the separate entities
for periods prior to the HCA Merger (dollars in millions):



NOTE 3 -- GALEN MERGER
    On  August 31,  1993, the  stockholders of both  CHC and  Galen approved the
Galen Merger, effective as  of September 1, 1993.  In connection with the  Galen
Merger,  CHC, a Nevada corporation, was merged  into Columbia. Each CHC share of
common stock was converted on a tax-free basis into one share of Columbia common
stock. Immediately subsequent thereto, a wholly owned subsidiary of Columbia was
merged into  Galen, at  which time  Galen became  a wholly  owned subsidiary  of
Columbia.  In connection  with this  transaction, Columbia  issued approximately
123,830,000 shares  of  common stock  in  a tax-free  exchange  for all  of  the
outstanding  common shares of  Galen (an exchange  ratio of 0.775  of a share of
Columbia common stock for each share of Galen common stock).

    The Galen  Merger has  been accounted  for as  a pooling  of interests,  and
accordingly, the supplemental consolidated financial statements give retroactive
effect  to the combined operations  of CHC and Galen  for all periods presented.
The following is a summary of the results of operations of the separate entities
for periods prior to the Galen Merger (dollars in millions):



                                      F-39

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 4 -- SPINOFF TRANSACTION AND DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
    Prior to the Galen Merger, Galen began operating its hospital business as an
independent publicly held corporation on March 1, 1993 as a result of a tax-free
spinoff transaction (the  "Spinoff") by Humana  Inc. ("Humana"), which  retained
its managed care health plan business. The Spinoff separated Humana's previously
integrated  hospital and  managed care health  plan businesses  and was effected
through the distribution  of Galen common  stock to then  current Humana  common
stockholders on a one-for-one basis.

    For  accounting  purposes,  because  of  the  relative  significance  of the
hospital business, the  pre-Spinoff consolidated financial  statements of  Galen
(and  now  those  of  Columbia/HCA) include  the  separate  results  of Humana's
hospital business, while the operations and net assets of Humana's managed  care
health plans have been classified as discontinued operations.

    In  connection with the Spinoff, Galen  entered into various agreements with
Humana which were intended to facilitate  orderly changes for both the  hospital
and  managed  care health  plan businesses  in  a way  which would  be minimally
disruptive to each entity. Principal contracts are summarized below:

    OPERATIONS -- Certain former Galen  hospitals will provide medical  services
to  insureds of Humana for  three years subsequent to  the Spinoff. The contract
includes, among other  things, established payment  rates for various  inpatient
and  outpatient services and annual  increases therein, and hospital utilization
guarantees and related penalties.

    LIABILITIES  AND  INDEMNIFICATION  --  Each  entity  assumed  liability  for
specified  claims. The  entities will also  share risks with  respect to certain
litigation and other contingencies, both identified and unknown.

    INCOME TAXES  --  Each  entity entered  into  risk-sharing  arrangements  in
connection with the ultimate resolution of various income tax disputes.

    FINANCING  -- In  January 1993 certain  subsidiaries issued  $250 million of
notes payable to Humana,  and paid to  Humana $135 million in  cash on March  1,
1993  which was financed  principally through the  issuance of commercial paper.
The $250 million of notes were repaid  in September 1993 in connection with  the
refinancing of certain long-term debt.

    ADMINISTRATION   --  These   arrangements  relate  to   leasing  of  certain
administrative facilities, division of information systems, employee benefit and
stock option plans, and various administrative service arrangements.

    Revenues of the discontinued managed care health plan business (included  in
discontinued  operations in the accompanying supplemental consolidated statement
of income) were $523 million in 1993,  $2.9 billion in 1992 and $2.5 billion  in
1991.

                                      F-40

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 5 -- NON-RECURRING TRANSACTIONS


    In September 1993 the following charges were recorded in connection with the
Galen Merger (dollars in millions):




    In September 1992 a pretax charge of $394 million was recorded in connection
with  the  planned  divestiture  of  twenty-two  psychiatric  hospitals  and the
unrelated sale of  two other facilities.  The charge included  the writedown  to
estimated  net realizable  value of  the hospitals  to be  sold, a  $231 million
writeoff of permanently impaired cost in excess of net assets acquired, and  the
costs associated with the replacement of certain credit agreements.

    Income  from  continuing operations  in  1992 also  includes  a gain  of $93
million on the sale of an investment in common stock of HealthTrust, Inc. -- The
Hospital Company ("HealthTrust").

    Income from continuing operations in  1992 includes $138 million of  charges
incurred  primarily in  connection with the  Spinoff, including  a provision for
loss on the  planned sale  of hospitals, writedowns  of assets  in markets  with
significant declines in operations, administrative facility asset writedowns and
certain  other costs associated  with the separation of  the hospital and health
plan businesses. Costs aggregating $171  million (before income taxes)  incurred
by  Humana primarily in connection with the Spinoff are included in discontinued
operations in 1992.


    Income from continuing  operations in  1991 includes  (i) a  charge of  $413
million  in connection with  the acceleration of vesting  of stock options under
the HCA Nonqualified Stock Option Plan and the establishment of exercise  prices
at  levels substantially less than the then  fair value of the underlying common
stock,  (ii)  a  charge  of  $159  million  primarily  in  connection  with  the
anticipated loss on the disposition of certain hospitals and other assets, (iii)
a gain of $51 million on the sale of a hospital, and (iv) a gain of $221 million
on the sale of an investment in preferred stock and warrants of HealthTrust.

NOTE 6 -- OTHER BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
    During the past three years, Columbia/HCA has acquired various hospitals and
related  ancillary  health care  facilities  (or controlling  interests  in such
facilities), all  of which  have  been accounted  for  by the  purchase  method.
Accordingly,  the  aggregate  purchase  price  of  these  transactions  has been
allocated  to  tangible   and  identifiable  intangible   assets  acquired   and
liabilities  assumed based upon  their respective fair  values. The supplemental
consolidated financial statements  include the operations  of acquired  entities
since the respective acquisition dates.

                                      F-41

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 6 -- OTHER BUSINESS COMBINATIONS (CONTINUED)
    The following is a summary of acquisitions consummated during the last three
years (dollars in millions):



    In  July 1992  Columbia/HCA acquired  Basic American  Medical, Inc. ("BAMI")
(included in the table above) through  a merger into a wholly owned  subsidiary.
The  assets of BAMI included eight  hospitals containing 1,203 licensed beds and
certain other health care businesses.  The transaction was financed through  the
assumption  of  approximately  $140  million  of  long-term  debt,  issuance  of
6,995,000 shares of  common stock and  payment of  $38 million in  cash to  BAMI
stockholders.

    The  purchase price  paid in  excess of the  fair value  of identifiable net
assets of acquired entities aggregated $7  million in 1993, $97 million in  1992
and $19 million in 1991.

    The  pro forma  effect of  these acquisitions  on Columbia/HCA's  results of
operations was not significant.

NOTE 7 -- INCOME TAXES
    Provision for income taxes consists of the following (dollars in millions):



                                      F-42

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 7 -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    Reconciliation of  federal  statutory  rate to  effective  income  tax  rate
follows:



    In  August 1993  Congress enacted the  Omnibus Budget  Reconciliation Act of
1993 which included,  among other things,  an increase in  corporate income  tax
rates retroactive to January 1, 1993. This legislation had no material effect on
1993 net income.

    Columbia/HCA  adopted the  provisions of  Statement of  Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("SFAS 109"), as of January  1,
1992,  the  effect  of which  increased  1992  net income  by  $51  million. The
provisions of  SFAS 109  require, among  other things,  recognition of  deferred
income taxes using statutory rates at which temporary differences in the tax and
book  bases of assets and  liabilities are expected to  affect taxable income in
future years.

    A summary of deferred  income taxes by source  included in the  consolidated
balance sheet at December 31, 1993 and 1992 follows (dollars in millions):



    Management  believes that  the deferred tax  assets in the  table above will
ultimately be  realized.  Management's  conclusion is  based  primarily  on  its
expectation  of future  taxable income and  the existence  of sufficient taxable
income within the  allowable carryback periods  to realize the  tax benefits  of
deductible temporary differences recorded at December 31, 1993.

    Deferred income taxes totaling $295 million and $257 million at December 31,
1993  and 1992, respectively,  are included in  other current assets. Noncurrent
deferred income  taxes,  included in  deferred  credits and  other  liabilities,
totaled   $557  million  and  $507  million  at  December  31,  1993  and  1992,
respectively.

    The Internal Revenue Service (the "Service") has issued statutory notices of
deficiency in  connection with  its  examinations of  HCA's federal  income  tax
returns  for  1981  through  1988. Columbia/HCA  is  currently  contesting these
claimed  deficiencies  in  the  United  States  Tax  Court.  In  addition,   the

                                      F-43

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 7 -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
Service  has proposed certain adjustments in connection with its examinations of
HCA's 1989 and 1990 federal income tax returns. The following is a discussion of
the disputed items with respect to these years.

METHOD OF ACCOUNTING

    For years  1981  through 1986,  most  of HCA's  hospital  subsidiaries  (the
"Subsidiaries")  reported  taxable income  primarily  using the  cash  method of
accounting. This  method was  prevalent  within the  hospital industry  and  the
Subsidiaries  applied the  method in accordance  with prior  agreements with the
Service. The Service now  asserts that the accrual  method of accounting  should
have  been used by the Subsidiaries. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 (the "1986 Act")
requires the  use  of  the  accrual method  of  accounting  beginning  in  1987.
Consequently,  the Subsidiaries changed to  the accrual method beginning January
1, 1987. In accordance with the provisions of the 1986 Act, income that had been
deferred at  the end  of  1986 is  being recognized  as  taxable income  by  the
Subsidiaries  in equal annual installments over ten years. If the Service should
ultimately prevail  in its  claim that  the Subsidiaries  should have  used  the
accrual  method for 1981 through 1986, the  claim would be reduced to the extent
that HCA has  recognized as  taxable income a  portion of  such deferred  income
taxes  since 1986. In addition, the sale by HCA of numerous Subsidiaries in 1987
that had been using the cash method resulted in the recognition of a substantial
gain that would  not have been  recognized had the  Subsidiaries been using  the
accrual  method.  If the  Service were  successful with  respect to  this issue,
Columbia/HCA would  owe an  additional $110  million in  income taxes  and  $432
million in interest as of December 31, 1993.

HOSPITAL ACQUISITIONS

    In  connection with hospitals acquired by HCA  in 1981 and 1985, the Service
has asserted that a portion of  the costs allocated to identifiable assets  with
ascertainable  useful lives should be reclassified as nondeductible goodwill. If
the Service  ultimately  prevails in  this  regard, Columbia/HCA  would  owe  an
additional  $113 million  in income  taxes and  $139 million  in interest  as of
December 31, 1993.

INSURANCE SUBSIDIARY

    Based on  a  Sixth Circuit  Court  of  Appeals decision  (the  Court  having
jurisdiction  over the HCA issues), HCA has claimed that insurance premiums paid
to its wholly owned insurance subsidiary ("Parthenon") are deductible, while the
Service asserts that  such premiums  are not deductible  and that  corresponding
losses  are  only deductible  at  the time  and to  the  extent that  claims are
actually paid.  HCA has  claimed  the additional  deductions  in its  Tax  Court
petitions.  Through December 31, 1993, Columbia/HCA is seeking a refund totaling
$51 million in income taxes and $93 million in interest in connection with  this
issue.

    As  an alternative to its position, HCA has asserted that in connection with
the sale of hospitals to HealthTrust in 1987, premiums paid to Parthenon by  the
sold  hospitals, if not deductible as  discussed above, became deductible at the
time of the sale.  Accordingly, HCA claimed such  deduction in its 1987  federal
income  tax return. The Service has disallowed  the deduction and is claiming an
additional $5  million in  income taxes  and $15  million in  interest. A  final
determination that the premiums are not deductible either when paid to Parthenon
or  upon the sale of certain hospitals to HealthTrust would increase the taxable
basis in the hospitals sold, thereby reducing HCA's gain realized on the sale.

HEALTHTRUST SALE

    In connection with its sale of  certain Subsidiaries to HealthTrust in  1987
in  exchange for cash, HealthTrust preferred  stock and stock purchase warrants,
HCA calculated its gain based on the valuation of such stock and warrants by  an
independent appraiser. The Service claims a higher

                                      F-44

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 7 -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
aggregate  valuation, based  on the  face amount  of the  preferred stock  and a
separate  appraisal  HealthTrust  obtained  for  the  stock  purchase  warrants.
Application of the higher valuation would increase the gain recognized by HCA on
the  sale. However, if the Service succeeds in its assertion, HCA's tax basis in
its HealthTrust  preferred stock  and warrants  will be  increased  accordingly,
thereby substantially reducing the tax from the sale of such preferred stock and
warrants  by a  corresponding amount.  By December  31, 1992,  HCA had  sold its
entire interest in the HealthTrust  preferred stock and warrants. Including  the
effect  of the  sales of  these securities,  the Service  is claiming additional
interest of $64 million through December 31, 1993.

    Also  in  connection  with  the   1987  sale  of  certain  Subsidiaries   to
HealthTrust,   the  Service  claims  that  HCA's  basis  in  the  stock  of  the
Subsidiaries sold to HealthTrust should be calculated by adjusting such basis to
reflect accelerated rather than  straight-line depreciation, which would  reduce
HCA's  basis in the  stock sold and increase  the taxable gain  on the sale. The
Service position is  contrary to a  Tax Court  decision in a  similar case.  The
Service  is claiming additional income taxes of  $79 million and interest of $66
million through December 31, 1993.

    In connection with  the 1987 HealthTrust  transactions, the Service  further
asserts  that, to the extent  the Subsidiaries were properly  on the cash method
through 1986,  and  therefore  properly  recognizing  taxable  income  over  the
ten-year  transition period, HCA should have  additional income in 1987 equal to
the unamortized portion  of the deferred  income. It is  HCA's position that  no
additional  income  need  be  included  in 1987  and  that  the  deferred income
continues to qualify for the ten-year  transition period after the sale.  Should
the  Service prevail,  Columbia/HCA would owe  $11 million  of additional income
taxes and $17 million of interest through December 31, 1993. The position of the
Service is  an alternative  to its  denial  of the  use of  the cash  method  of
accounting previously discussed.

DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

    The  IRS is asserting that  in 1986 HCA was  not entitled to include charity
care writeoffs  in the  formula used  to calculate  its deduction  for  doubtful
accounts.  For years 1987  and 1988, the  Service is asserting  that HCA was not
entitled to exclude  from income  amounts which  are unlikely  to be  collected.
Management believes that such exclusions are permissible under an accrual method
of  accounting, and because HCA is a "service business" and not a "merchandising
business," it is entitled to a special exclusion provided to service  businesses
by  the 1986 Act. The Service disagrees, asserting that HCA is engaged, at least
in part,  in  a  merchandising business.  Notwithstanding  this  assertion,  the
Service  contends that the exclusion taken  by HCA is excessive under applicable
Temporary Treasury Regulations.  Columbia/HCA believes that  the calculation  of
the exclusion is inaccurate since it does not permit the exclusion in accordance
with  the controlling statute.  If the Service  prevails, Columbia/HCA would owe
additional income taxes  of $102  million and  interest of  $48 million  through
December 31, 1993.

LEVERAGED BUY-OUT EXPENSES

    The  Service has asserted that no  deduction is allowed for various expenses
incurred in  connection  with  HCA's  leveraged  buy-out  transaction  in  1989,
including the amortization of loan costs incurred to borrow funds to acquire the
stock of the former shareholders, certain fees incurred by the Special Committee
of  HCA's  Board of  Directors to  evaluate  the buy-out  proposal, compensation
payments to cancel employee stock plans, and various other costs incurred  after
the  buy-out which have been treated as  part of the transaction by the Service.
Columbia/HCA believes that  all of these  costs are deductible.  If the  Service
prevails on these issues, Columbia/HCA would owe income taxes of $94 million and
interest of $24 million through December 31, 1993.

                                      F-45

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 7 -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
OTHER ISSUES

    Additional  federal income  tax issues  primarily concern  disputes over the
depreciable  lives  utilized  by   HCA  for  constructed  hospital   facilities,
investment  tax  credits,  vacation  pay  deductions  and  income  from  foreign
operations. Many of these items, including depreciation, investment tax  credits
and  foreign issues, have  been resolved favorably  in previous settlements. The
Service is claiming an additional $44 million in income taxes and $28 million in
interest through December 31, 1993 with respect to these issues.

    Management believes that HCA had properly  reported its income and paid  its
taxes  in accordance  with applicable laws  and agreements  established with the
Service during  previous  examinations,  and  that  final  resolution  of  these
disputes will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations or
financial position of Columbia/HCA.

NOTE 8 -- PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS
    Columbia/HCA  insures a  substantial portion  of its  professional liability
risks through wholly  owned insurance  subsidiaries. Provisions  for such  risks
underwritten by the subsidiaries and deductibles at certain hospitals, including
expenses  incident to claim settlements, were $96 million for 1993, $102 million
for 1992 and $111 million for 1991. Amounts funded to the insurance subsidiaries
were $62 million for 1993, $55 million for 1992 and $56 million for 1991.

    Allowances  for  professional  liability  risks,  included  principally   in
deferred  credits and other  liabilities, were $817 million  and $791 million at
December 31, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

    As discussed in Note 1, Columbia/HCA  adopted the provisions of SFAS 115  on
December 31, 1993. Accordingly, common stockholders' equity was increased by $27
million  (net of deferred  income taxes) to  reflect the net  unrealized gain on
investments classified as available for sale. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 115,
debt securities were recorded at amortized cost (which approximated fair value),
while equity securities  were recorded at  the lower of  aggregate cost or  fair
value. The adoption of SFAS 115 had no effect on earnings in 1993.

    The  provisions  of SFAS  115 require  that investments  in debt  and equity
securities be classified according to the following criteria:

    TRADING ACCOUNT  -- Assets  held for  resale in  anticipation of  short-term
changes  in market conditions are  recorded at fair value  and gains and losses,
both realized  and unrealized,  are included  in income.  Columbia/HCA does  not
maintain a trading account portfolio.

    HELD  TO MATURITY -- Certain  debt securities of Columbia/HCA's professional
liability insurance subsidiaries are expected to be held to maturity as a result
of management's intent and  ability to do so.  These investments are carried  at
amortized cost.

    AVAILABLE  FOR SALE --  Debt and equity securities  not classified as either
trading securities or held to maturity are classified as available for sale  and
recorded at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses are excluded from income and
recorded as a separate component of common stockholders' equity.

                                      F-46

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8 -- PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS (CONTINUED)
    The  following is  a summary of  the insurance  subsidiaries' investments at
December 31, 1993 and 1992 (dollars in millions):



                                      F-47

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8 -- PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS (CONTINUED)


    The cost and estimated fair value of debt and equity securities at  December
31, 1993 by contractual maturity are shown below (dollars in millions). Expected
and contractual maturities will differ because the issuers of certain securities
may  have  the right  to  prepay or  otherwise  redeem such  obligations without
penalty.



    The fair value of the subsidiaries' investments is based generally on quoted
market prices.

                                      F-48

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8 -- PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY RISKS (CONTINUED)
    The  average  life  of  the  above  investments  (excluding  common  stocks)
approximated  five years  at December  31, 1993 and  four years  at December 31,
1992, and the tax equivalent yield on such investments averaged 10% for the last
three years.  Tax  equivalent yield  is  the  rate earned  on  invested  assets,
excluding  unrealized gains and  losses, adjusted for  the benefit of nontaxable
investment income.

    Sales of securities  for the  year ended  December 31,  1993 are  summarized
below (dollars in millions):



NOTE 9 -- LONG-TERM DEBT
    A summary of long-term debt at December 31 follows (dollars in millions):



    Borrowings  under the commercial paper  programs are classified as long-term
debt due to the credit available under the revolving credit agreements discussed
below and management's intention  to refinance these  borrowings on a  long-term
basis.

    Maturities  of long-term debt  in years 1995 through  1998 are $1.1 billion,
$161 million, $64 million and  $1.1 billion, respectively. Such amounts  reflect
maturities  of debt issued  for refinancings through  March 24, 1994  and, as to
short-term debt  classified  as long-term,  are  based upon  maturities  of  the
revolving  credit agreements.  Approximately 8%  of Columbia/HCA's  property and
equipment is pledged on senior collateralized debt.

    During the  past three  years Columbia/HCA  has reduced  interest costs  and
eliminated  certain  restrictive  covenants  by  refinancing  or  prepaying high
interest rate  debt,  primarily  through  the use  of  existing  cash  and  cash
equivalents and issuance of long-term debt, commercial paper and equity. Amounts
refinanced  or prepaid totaled $787 million in 1993, $1 billion in 1992 and $275
million in 1991. After-tax losses from refinancing activities in 1993 aggregated
$84 million or $.24 per share.

                                      F-49

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9 -- LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
    In February 1994 Columbia/HCA entered into revolving credit agreements  (the
"Credit  Facilities")  in  the  aggregate  amount  of  $3  billion.  The  Credit
Facilities comprise  a four-year  $1 billion  revolving credit  agreement and  a
364-day  $2  billion  revolving  credit agreement.  The  Credit  Facilities were
established to support Columbia/HCA's commercial paper programs and replace $3.2
billion of prior revolving credit agreements associated with HCA ($1.6  billion)
and  Columbia ($1.6 billion). Interest is payable generally at either LIBOR plus
1/4% to  1/2% (depending  on Columbia/HCA's  credit rating),  or the  higher  of
prime,  the bank certificate of  deposit rate plus 1%  or the Federal Funds rate
plus 1/2%.

    In December 1993 Columbia/HCA issued $150  million of 6 1/8% Notes due  2000
and $150 million of 7 1/2% Notes due 2023.

    During  1992 Columbia/HCA  sold $100 million  face amount of  10 7/8% Senior
Subordinated Notes  due 2002  and $135  million face  amount of  11 1/2%  Senior
Subordinated Notes due 2002. In September 1993 $232 million face amount of these
notes were retired through the completion of a tender offer.

    Proceeds  from the  public offering  of 41,055,000  shares of  voting common
stock in 1992 were used to repay  $352 million of debt outstanding under a  bank
credit  agreement and  redeem the 15  3/4% Subordinated  Discount Debentures and
related interest aggregating $444 million.

    In connection with  the acquisition  of BAMI in  1992, Columbia/HCA  assumed
approximately  $140  million  of  long-term  debt,  including  approximately $64
million of senior collateralized notes payable in quarterly installments through
1998  at  interest  rates  ranging  from  10.7%  to  11.7%.  In  September  1993
Columbia/HCA effected the defeasance of these notes.

    In  1991 one  of Columbia/HCA's  partnerships issued  $95 million  of 11.45%
Senior Secured Notes due 2001. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $66
million of  bank  debt  and  finance expansion.  These  notes  were  retired  in
connection  with the  refinancing of debt  in September  1993. Columbia/HCA also
issued in 1991 a $40 million  face amount 9% Subordinated Mandatory  Convertible
Note  due  1999.  The note  is  convertible at  the  option of  the  holder into
Columbia/HCA voting common stock  at a price of  $18.50 per share (adjusted  for
stock   splits,  recapitalizations  and  reorganizations).   The  note  will  be
automatically converted into common stock if the average per share market  price
for  four months  preceding the  July 1  anniversary exceeds  a specified amount
ranging from $27.00 in 1994 to $34.00 in 1996.

    In 1991 Columbia/HCA exchanged  its Cumulative Exchangeable Preferred  Stock
for  17  1/2%  Junior  Subordinated  Exchangeable  Debentures  due  2005.  These
debentures were redeemed in 1992 from  proceeds on the 1991 sale of  HealthTrust
preferred stock and warrants.

    Columbia/HCA's  credit facilities contain  customary covenants which include
(i) limitations on additional debt, (ii) limitations on sales of assets, mergers
and changes  of ownership  and (iii)  maintenance of  certain interest  coverage
ratios.

    The  estimated fair value of Columbia/HCA's  long-term debt was $4.1 billion
at both December  31, 1993 and  1992, compared to  carrying amounts  aggregating
$3.7  billion at the end of each year. Certain subsidiaries of Columbia/HCA have
entered into agreements which reduce the impact of changes in interest rates  on
$380 million of floating rate long-term debt. At December 31, 1993 and 1992, the
fair  value  of  Columbia/HCA's  net  payable  position  under  these agreements
(included in the aggregate fair value amounts above) totaled $34 million and $29
million, respectively.  The estimate  of fair  value is  based upon  the  quoted
market  prices for  the same or  similar issues  of long-term debt,  or on rates
available to Columbia/HCA as  a result of  the HCA Merger for  debt of the  same
remaining maturities.

                                      F-50

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9 -- LONG-TERM DEBT (CONTINUED)
    As discussed in Note 4, in connection with the Spinoff, certain subsidiaries
issued  notes  payable  ($250  million) and  paid  cash  ($135  million financed
primarily through the issuance  of commercial paper) to  Humana in 1993. If  the
Spinoff  had occurred on December 31, 1992, Columbia/HCA's ratio of debt to debt
plus common stockholders' equity would have increased from 50% to 58%.

NOTE 10 -- LEASES
    Columbia/HCA  leases  real  estate   and  equipment  under  cancelable   and
non-cancelable   arrangements.  Future  minimum  payments  under  non-cancelable
operating leases are as follows (dollars in millions):



    Rent expense aggregated $196 million, $190 million and $170 million for  the
years ended December 31, 1993, 1992 and 1991, respectively.

NOTE 11 -- CONTINGENCIES
    Management continually evaluates contingencies based upon the best available
evidence.  In addition, allowances for loss  are provided currently for disputed
items  that   have  continuing   significance,  such   as  certain   third-party
reimbursements  and  deductions  that continue  to  be claimed  in  current cost
reports and tax returns.

    Management believes  that allowances  for  loss have  been provided  to  the
extent  necessary  and  that  its  assessment  of  contingencies  is reasonable.
Management believes that resolution of contingencies will not materially  affect
Columbia/HCA's financial position or results of operations.

    Principal contingencies are described below:

        REVENUES  -- Certain third-party payments  are subject to examination by
    agencies administering  the  programs. Columbia/HCA  is  contesting  certain
    issues raised in audits of prior year cost reports.

        PROFESSIONAL  LIABILITY RISKS -- Columbia/HCA  has provided for loss for
    professional liability risks  based upon  actuarially determined  estimates.
    Actual  settlements  and  expenses  incident  thereto  may  differ  from the
    provisions for loss.

        INTEREST RATE  AGREEMENTS --  Certain subsidiaries  of Columbia/HCA  are
    parties  to agreements which reduce the  impact of changes in interest rates
    on its floating rate long-term debt. In the event of nonperformance by other
    parties to these agreements, Columbia/HCA may incur a loss on the difference
    between market rates and contract rates.

        INCOME TAXES -- Columbia/HCA is  contesting adjustments proposed by  the
    IRS.

        SPINOFF   --  Certain  subsidiaries  of   Columbia/HCA  are  parties  to
    risk-sharing arrangements with Humana.

        REGULATORY  REVIEW  --  Federal  regulators  are  investigating  certain
    financial arrangements with physicians at two psychiatric hospitals.

        LITIGATION -- Various suits and claims arising in the ordinary course of
    business are pending against Columbia/HCA.

                                      F-51

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 12 -- CAPITAL STOCK
    The  terms and conditions associated with  each class of Columbia/HCA common
stock are substantially identical except for voting rights. All nonvoting common
stockholders may convert their shares on a one-for-one basis into voting  common
stock,  subject  to  certain  limitations. In  addition,  certain  voting common
stockholders may  convert their  shares on  a one-for-one  basis into  nonvoting
common stock.

    The  following shares  of common  stock were  reserved at  December 31, 1993
(amounts in thousands):



    Columbia/HCA has plans under which options  to purchase common stock may  be
granted to officers, employees and directors. Except for those discussed in Note
5, options have been granted at not less than market price on the date of grant.
Exercise  provisions vary, but most options are  exercisable in whole or in part
beginning one to four years after grant  and ending four to fifteen years  after
grant. Activity in the plans is summarized below (share amounts in thousands):



    At  December 31, 1993, options for 4,026,700 shares were exercisable. Shares
of common stock available for future grants were 10,088,000 at December 31, 1993
and 11,442,900 at December 31, 1992.

    In connection with the Galen Merger, certain preferred stock purchase rights
were redeemed which  were previously  issued to Galen  common stockholders.  The
cost  of this transaction was not significant. In addition, a stockholder rights
plan was  adopted upon  consummation of  the Galen  Merger (similar  to that  of
Galen)  under  which common  stockholders have  the right  to purchase  Series A
Preferred Stock in  the event  of accumulation of  or tender  offer for  certain
percentages  of  Columbia/HCA's common  stock. The  rights  will expire  in 2003
unless redeemed earlier by Columbia/ HCA.

                                      F-52

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      NOTES TO SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

NOTE 12 -- CAPITAL STOCK (CONTINUED)
    In September 1993 the Board of Directors initiated a regular quarterly  cash
dividend on common stock of $.03 per share.

    In  March 1992 Columbia/HCA issued 41,055,000 shares of voting common stock,
the net proceeds from which ($796  million) were used to reduce long-term  debt.
Assuming  that these shares were issued and  the proceeds therefrom were used to
reduce long-term debt  at the  beginning of the  year, earnings  per common  and
common equivalent share would have been $.53 in 1992.

    In  connection  with  the  HCA Merger,  Columbia/HCA  stockholders  voted to
increase the aggregate number of authorized  voting shares of common stock  from
400 million to 800 million, and the number of authorized nonvoting common shares
was established at 25 million. In addition, authorized shares of preferred stock
(none of which are outstanding) were increased from 10 million to 25 million.

NOTE 13 -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
    Columbia/HCA maintains noncontributory defined contribution retirement plans
covering substantially all employees. Benefits are determined as a percentage of
a  participant's earned income and are vested over specified periods of employee
service. Retirement plan expense was $97 million for 1993, $102 million for 1992
and $86 million for  1991. Amounts equal to  retirement plan expense are  funded
annually.

    Columbia/HCA   maintains  various  contributory   savings  plans  which  are
available to employees  who meet  certain minimum requirements.  Certain of  the
plans  require that Columbia/HCA  match an amount  ranging from 50%  to 60% of a
participant's contribution up to certain maximum levels. The cost of these plans
totaled $20 million for  1993, $19 million  for 1992 and  $15 million for  1991.
Columbia/HCA contributions are funded periodically during the year.

NOTE 14 -- ACCRUED EXPENSES
    The following is a summary of other accrued expenses at December 31 (dollars
in millions):



NOTE 15 -- SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

INCOME TAXES

    On  March  24, 1994,  Columbia/HCA made  an  advance payment  to the  IRS of
approximately $75 million in connection with certain disputed prior year  income
taxes  and related interest. This transaction will not have a material effect on
1994 earnings.

LONG-TERM DEBT

    Since completion of the HCA Merger, certain HCA and other long-term debt has
been  refinanced  in  an  effort  to  reduce  future  interest  expense.   These
transactions  were financed primarily through  the issuance of commercial paper,
$175 million of 6 1/2% Notes due 1999 and $150 million of 7.15% Notes due  2004.
Management  anticipates that losses resulting  from these refinancing activities
will reduce Columbia/HCA's first  quarter 1994 net  income by approximately  $80
million.

                                      F-53

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
     SUPPLEMENTAL QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                                      F-54

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
 SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE I -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES -- OTHER SECURITY INVESTMENTS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1993
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-55

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE II -- AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES
     AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                                      F-56

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE II -- AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES
     AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                                      F-57

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
      SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE II -- AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES
     AND UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                                      F-58

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
            SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE V -- PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-59

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
        SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE VI -- ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION
               AND AMORTIZATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-60

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
        SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE VIII -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-61

                      COLUMBIA/HCA HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
     SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE X -- SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993, 1992 AND 1991
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)



                                      F-62

