10-K


g05969e10vk.htm

HCA INC.

HCA Inc.


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM

10-K

Commission File Number 1-11239

HCA INC.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

Registrant’s telephone number, Including Area Code:

(615) 344-9551

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
None

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
None

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.     Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation

S-K

(§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and
will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form

10-K

or any
amendment to this
Form

10-K.

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated
filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large
accelerated filer” in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
filer

o

Accelerated
filer

o

Non-accelerated
filer

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company
(as defined in
Rule

12b-2

of the
Exchange
Act).     Yes

o

No

þ

As of February 28, 2007, there were approximately
93,004,000 shares of Registrant’s common stock
outstanding. As of June 30, 2006, which was prior to
Registrant’s recapitalization, the aggregate market value
of the common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately
$16.1 billion. For purposes of the foregoing calculation
only, Registrant’s directors, executive officers and the
HCA 401(k) Plan have been deemed to be affiliates.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

None.

INDEX



PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

HCA Inc. is one of the leading health care services companies in
the United States. At December 31, 2006, we operated 173
hospitals, comprised of 166 general, acute care hospitals; six
psychiatric hospitals; and one rehabilitation hospital. The 173
hospital total includes seven hospitals (six general, acute care
hospitals and one rehabilitation hospital) owned by joint
ventures in which an affiliate of HCA is a partner, and these
joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. In
addition, we operated 107 freestanding surgery centers, nine of
which are owned by joint ventures in which an affiliate of HCA
is a partner, and these joint ventures are accounted for using
the equity method. Our facilities are located in 20 states,
England and Switzerland. The terms “Company,”
“HCA,” “we,” “our” or
“us,” as used herein, refer to HCA Inc. and its
affiliates unless otherwise stated or indicated by context. The
term “affiliates” means direct and indirect
subsidiaries of HCA Inc. and partnerships and joint ventures in
which such subsidiaries are partners. The terms
“facilities” or “hospitals” refer to
entities owned and operated by affiliates of HCA and the term
“employees” refers to employees of affiliates of HCA.

Our primary objective is to provide the communities we serve a
comprehensive array of quality health care services in the most
cost-effective manner possible. Our general, acute care
hospitals typically provide a full range of services to
accommodate such medical specialties as internal medicine,
general surgery, cardiology, oncology, neurosurgery, orthopedics
and obstetrics, as well as diagnostic and emergency services.
Outpatient and ancillary health care services are provided by
our general, acute care hospitals, freestanding surgery centers,
diagnostic centers and rehabilitation facilities. Our
psychiatric hospitals provide a full range of mental health care
services through inpatient, partial hospitalization and
outpatient settings.

The Company was incorporated in Nevada in January 1990 and
reincorporated in Delaware in September 1993. Our principal
executive offices are located at One Park Plaza, Nashville,
Tennessee 37203, and our telephone number is (615) 344-9551.

On July 24, 2006, our Board of Directors approved and we
entered into a Merger Agreement (the “Merger
Agreement” and the transactions contemplated thereby the
“Merger”) with Hercules Acquisition Corporation
(“Merger Sub”), a Delaware corporation and a wholly
owned subsidiary of Hercules Holding II, LLC
(“Hercules Holding”), a Delaware limited liability
company owned by a private investor group including affiliates
of Bain Capital, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., Merrill
Lynch Global Private Equity (each a “Sponsor” and
together, the “Sponsors”), and affiliates of HCA
founder Dr. Thomas F. Frist, Jr., (the “Frist
Entities”, and together with the Sponsors, the
“Investors”), pursuant to which Hercules Holding would
acquire all of our outstanding shares of common stock for
$51.00 per share in cash. The Merger Agreement was approved
by our shareholders on November 16, 2006. The Merger, the
financing transactions related to the Merger and other related
transactions were consummated on November 17, 2006, had a
transaction value of approximately $33.0 billion and are
collectively referred to in this annual report as the
“Recapitalization.” As a result of the
Recapitalization, our outstanding common stock is owned by
Hercules Holding, certain members of management and other key
employees. Our common stock is no longer registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and is
no longer traded on a national securities exchange.

Available Information

We currently voluntarily file certain reports with the SEC,
including annual reports on
Form

10-K

and
quarterly reports on
Form

10-Q.

The
public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at
the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at

1-800-SEC-0330.

We are
an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site at
http://www.sec.gov that contains the reports and other
information we file electronically. Our website address is
www.hcahealthcare.com. Please note that our website address is
provided as an inactive textual reference only. We make
available free of charge through our website our annual report
on Form

10-K

and
quarterly reports on
Form

10-Q,

and all
amendments to those



reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The
information provided on our website is not part of this report,
and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such
information is specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.

Our Code of Conduct is available free of charge upon request to
our Corporate Secretary, HCA Inc., One Park Plaza, Nashville,
Tennessee 37203.

Business Strategy

We are committed to providing the communities we serve high
quality, cost-effective health care while complying fully with
our ethics policy, governmental regulations and guidelines and
industry standards. As a part of this strategy, management
focuses on the following principal elements:

Health Care Facilities

We currently own, manage or operate hospitals; freestanding
surgery centers; diagnostic and imaging centers; radiation and
oncology therapy centers; comprehensive rehabilitation and
physical therapy centers; and various other facilities.

At December 31, 2006, we owned and operated 160 general,
acute care hospitals with 38,754 licensed beds, and an
additional six general, acute care hospitals with 2,127 licensed
beds are operated through joint ventures, which are accounted
for using the equity method. Most of our general, acute care
hospitals provide medical and surgical services, including
inpatient care, intensive care, cardiac care, diagnostic
services and emergency services. The general, acute care
hospitals also provide outpatient services such as outpatient
surgery, laboratory, radiology, respiratory therapy, cardiology
and physical therapy. Each hospital has an organized medical
staff and a local board of trustees or governing board, made up
of members of the local community.

Our hospitals do not typically engage in extensive medical
research and education programs. However, some of our hospitals
are affiliated with medical schools and may participate in the
clinical rotation of medical interns and residents and other
education programs.

At December 31, 2006, we operated six psychiatric hospitals
with 600 licensed beds. Our psychiatric hospitals provide
therapeutic programs including child, adolescent and adult
psychiatric care, adult and adolescent alcohol and drug abuse
treatment and counseling.

Outpatient health care facilities operated by us include
freestanding surgery centers, diagnostic and imaging centers,
comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation and physical therapy
centers, outpatient radiation and oncology therapy centers and
various other facilities. These outpatient services are an
integral component of our strategy to develop comprehensive
health care networks in select communities.

In addition to providing capital resources, our affiliates
provide a variety of management services to our health care
facilities, including patient safety programs; ethics and
compliance programs; national supply contracts; equipment
purchasing and leasing contracts; accounting, financial and
clinical systems; governmental reimbursement assistance;
construction planning and coordination; information technology
systems and solutions; legal counsel; human resources services;
and internal audit services.



Sources of Revenue

Hospital revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the
medical and ancillary services ordered by physicians and
provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures and
the charges or payment rates for such services. Charges and
reimbursement rates for inpatient services vary significantly
depending on the type of service (e.g., medical/surgical,
intensive care or psychiatric) and the geographic location of
the hospital. Inpatient occupancy levels fluctuate for various
reasons, many of which are beyond our control.

We receive payment for patient services from the federal
government under the Medicare program, state governments under
their respective Medicaid or similar programs, managed care
plans, private insurers and directly from patients. The
approximate percentages of our patient revenues from such
sources were as follows:

Year Ended December 31,




Medicare


%


%


%

Managed Medicare


(a

)

(a

)

Medicaid




Managed Medicaid




Managed care and other insurers(a)




Uninsured(b)




Total


%


%


%

Medicare is a federal program that provides certain hospital and
medical insurance benefits to persons age 65 and over, some
disabled persons and persons with end-stage renal disease.
Medicaid is a federal-state program, administered by the states,
which provides hospital and medical benefits to qualifying
individuals who are unable to afford health care. All of our
general, acute care hospitals located in the United States are
certified as health care services providers for persons covered
under Medicare and Medicaid programs. Amounts received under
Medicare and Medicaid programs are generally significantly less
than established hospital gross charges for the services
provided.

Our hospitals generally offer discounts from established charges
to certain group purchasers of health care services, including
private insurance companies, employers, HMOs, PPOs and other
managed care plans. These discount programs generally limit our
ability to increase revenues in response to increasing costs.
See Item 1, “Business — Competition.”
Patients are generally not responsible for the total difference
between established hospital gross charges and amounts
reimbursed for such services under Medicare, Medicaid, HMOs or
PPOs and other managed care plans, but are responsible to the
extent of any exclusions, deductibles or coinsurance features of
their coverage. The amount of such exclusions, deductibles and
coinsurance has been increasing each year. Collection of amounts
due from individuals is typically more difficult than from
governmental or third-party payers. On January 1, 2005, we
modified our policies to provide a discount to uninsured
patients who do not qualify for Medicaid or charity care. These
discounts are similar to those provided to many local managed
care plans. In implementing the discount policy, we attempt to
qualify uninsured patients for Medicaid, other federal or state
assistance or charity care. If an uninsured patient does not
qualify for these programs, the uninsured discount is applied.
See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Results of Operations — Revenue/ Volume Trends.”



Medicare

Inpatient Acute Care

Under the Medicare program, we receive reimbursement under a
prospective payment system (“PPS”) for general, acute
care hospital inpatient services. Under hospital inpatient PPS,
fixed payment amounts per inpatient discharge are established
based on the patient’s assigned diagnosis related group
(“DRG”). DRGs classify treatments for illnesses
according to the estimated intensity of hospital resources
necessary to furnish care for each principal diagnosis. DRG
weights represent the average resources for a given DRG relative
to the average resources for all DRGs. When the cost to treat
certain patients falls well outside the normal distribution,
providers typically receive additional “outlier”
payments. DRG payments do not consider a specific
hospital’s cost, but are adjusted for area wage
differentials. Hospitals, other than those defined as
“new,” receive PPS reimbursement for inpatient capital
costs based on DRG weights multiplied by a geographically
adjusted federal rate.

DRG rates are updated and DRG weights are recalibrated each
federal fiscal year (which begins October 1). The index
used to update the DRG rates (the “market basket”)
gives consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals
and entities outside the health care industry in purchasing
goods and services. However, for several years the percentage
increases to the DRG rates have been lower than the percentage
increases in the costs of goods and services purchased by
hospitals. In federal fiscal year 2006, the DRG rate increase
was market basket of 3.7%. For federal fiscal year 2007, the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) set
the DRG rate increase at full market basket of 3.4%. The
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act
of 2003 (“MMA”) provided for DRG rate increases for
certain federal fiscal years at full market basket, if data for
ten patient care quality indicators were submitted to the
Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services
(“HHS”). On February 8, 2006, the Deficit
Reduction Act of 2005 (“DRA 2005”) was enacted by
Congress and expanded the number of quality measures that must
be reported to receive a full market basket update to 21,
beginning with discharges occurring in the third quarter of
2006. On November 24, 2006, CMS issued a final rule that
expands to 26 the number of quality measures that must be
reported, beginning in the first quarter of calendar year 2007,
and requires, beginning in the third quarter of calendar year
2007, that hospitals report the results of a 27-question patient
perspective survey. Failure to submit the required quality
indicators will result in a two percentage point reduction to
the market basket update. All of our hospitals paid under
Medicare inpatient DRG PPS are participating in the quality
initiative by the Secretary of HHS by submitting the quality
data requested. While we will endeavor to comply with all data
submission requirements as additional requirements continue to
be added, our submissions may not be deemed timely or sufficient
to entitle us to the full market basket adjustment for all of
our hospitals.

In the Federal Register dated August 18, 2006, CMS changed
the methodology used to recalibrate the DRG weights from charge
based weights to cost relative weights under a

3-year

transition
period beginning in federal fiscal year 2007. The adoption of
the cost relative weights is not anticipated to have a material
financial impact to us. CMS is currently studying alternative
DRG systems that would recognize severity of illness. It is
anticipated that CMS will propose revisions to the DRG system to
better recognize severity of illness for federal fiscal year
2008. It is uncertain as to what those revisions might be and
what the financial impact could be to us.

Future realignments in the DRG system could also reduce the
margins we receive for certain specialties, including cardiology
and orthopedics. The greater proliferation of specialty
hospitals in recent years has caused CMS to focus on payment
levels for such specialties. Changes in the payments received
for specialty services could have an adverse effect on our
revenues.

Historically, the Medicare program has set aside 5.1% of
Medicare inpatient payments to pay for outlier cases. CMS
estimates that outlier payments were 3.52% and 3.96% of total
operating DRG payments for federal fiscal years 2004 and 2005,
respectively. For federal fiscal year 2006, CMS has established
an outlier threshold of $23,600, which resulted in outlier
payments of 4.62% as estimated by CMS. For federal fiscal year
2007, CMS has established an outlier threshold of $24,485. We do
not anticipate that the change to the outlier threshold for
federal fiscal year 2007 will have a material impact on our
revenues.



Outpatient

CMS reimburses hospital outpatient services (and certain
Medicare Part B services furnished to hospital inpatients
who have no Part A coverage) on a PPS basis. CMS has
continued to use existing fee schedules to pay for physical,
occupational and speech therapies, durable medical equipment,
clinical diagnostic laboratory services and nonimplantable
orthotics and prosthetics. Freestanding surgery centers and
independent diagnostic testing facilities are reimbursed on a
fee schedule.

Hospital outpatient services paid under PPS are classified into
groups called ambulatory payment classifications
(“APCs”). Services for each APC are similar clinically
and in terms of the resources they require. A payment rate is
established for each APC. Depending on the services provided, a
hospital may be paid for more than one APC for a patient visit.
The APC payment rates were updated for calendar years 2005 and
2006 by market basket of 3.3% and 3.7%, respectively. However,
as a result of the expiration of additional payments for drugs
that were being paid in calendar year 2005, for calendar year
2006 there was an effective 2.25% reduction to the market basket
of 3.7%, resulting in a net market basket of 1.45%. For calendar
year 2007, MMA provides for a full market basket update, and on
November 24, 2006 CMS published a final rule that updated
payment rates for calendar year 2007 by the full market basket
of 3.4%. In this final rule, CMS announced that it will require
hospitals to submit quality data relating to outpatient care in
order to receive the full market basket increase under the
outpatient PPS beginning in calendar year 2009. CMS did not
indicate what data must be submitted or other details of the
program. Hospitals that fail to submit such data will receive
the market basket update minus two percentage points for the
outpatient PPS.

Rehabilitation

CMS reimburses inpatient rehabilitation facilities
(“IRFs”) on a PPS basis. Under IRF PPS, patients are
classified into case mix groups based upon impairment, age,
comorbidities (additional diseases or disorders from which the
patient suffers) and functional capability. IRFs are paid a
predetermined amount per discharge that reflects the
patient’s case mix group and is adjusted for area wage
levels, low-income patients, rural areas and high-cost outliers.
For federal fiscal years 2005 and 2006, CMS updated the PPS rate
for rehabilitation hospitals and units by market basket of 3.1%
and 3.6%, respectively. For federal fiscal year 2007, CMS has
updated the PPS rate for IRFs by market basket of 3.3%. However,
CMS also applied reductions to the standard payment amount of
1.9% and 2.6% for federal fiscal years 2006 and 2007,
respectively, to account for coding changes that do not reflect
real changes in case mix. As of December 31, 2006, we had
one rehabilitation hospital, which is operated through a joint
venture, and 49 hospital rehabilitation units.

On May 7, 2004, CMS published a final rule to change the
criteria for being classified as an IRF, commonly known as the
“75 percent rule.” CMS revised the medical
conditions for patients served by rehabilitation facilities from
ten medical conditions to 13 conditions. Pursuant to this final
rule, a specified percentage of a facility’s inpatients
over a given year must be treated for one of these conditions.
The final rule provides for a transition period during which the
percentage threshold would increase. For cost reporting periods
that began on or after July 1, 2004 and before July 1,
2005, the compliance threshold was set at 50% of the IRF’s
total patient population. For cost reporting periods beginning
on or after July 1, 2005 and before July 1, 2006, the
compliance threshold was set at 60% of the IRF’s total
patient population. For cost reporting periods beginning on or
after July 1, 2006 and before July 1, 2007, the
compliance threshold is set at 65% of the IRF’s total
patient population. The compliance threshold will be set at 75%
for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1,
2007. Implementation of the “75 percent rule” has
started to reduce our IRF admissions and can be expected to
continue to significantly restrict the treatment of patients
whose medical conditions do not meet any of the 13 approved
conditions.

Medicare fiscal intermediaries have been given the authority to
develop and implement Local Coverage Determinations
(“LCD”) to determine the medical necessity of care
rendered to Medicare patients where there is no national
coverage determination. Some intermediaries have finalized their
LCDs for rehabilitation services. A restrictive rehabilitation
LCD has the potential to significantly impact Medicare
rehabilitation payments. Some fiscal intermediaries have
implemented LCDs that are more stringent than the 75 percent



rule or have retroactively denied coverage based on new LCDs.
The financial impact to us of the implementation of final
rehabilitation LCDs throughout our markets is uncertain.

Psychiatric

Payments to PPS-exempt psychiatric hospitals and units are based
upon reasonable cost, subject to a cost-per-discharge target
(the TEFRA limits) which are updated annually by a market basket
index. The target amount for federal fiscal year 2006 was
subject to a market basket update of 3.8% for psychiatric
hospitals and units that are being paid under the three-year
transition to the inpatient psychiatric PPS.

On November 15, 2004, CMS published a final regulation to
implement a PPS for inpatient hospital services furnished in
psychiatric hospitals and psychiatric units of general, acute
care hospitals and critical access hospitals (“IPF
PPS”). The new prospective payment system replaces the
cost-based system for reporting periods beginning on or after
January 1, 2005. IPF PPS is a per diem prospective payment
system, with adjustments to account for certain patient and
facility characteristics. IPF PPS contains an
“outlier” policy for extraordinarily costly cases and
an adjustment to a facility’s base payment if it maintains
a full-service emergency department. IPF PPS is being
implemented over a three-year transition period with full
payment under IPF PPS to begin in the fourth year. Also, CMS has
included a stop-loss provision to ensure that hospitals avoid
significant losses during the transition. CMS has established
the IPF PPS payment rate in a manner intended to be budget
neutral and has adopted a July 1 update cycle. Thus, the
initial IPF PPS per diem payment rate was effective for the

18-month

period
January 1, 2005 through June 30, 2006. CMS updated
payments under the IPF PPS for rate year 2007 (July 1, 2006
to June 30, 2007) by 4.5% (reflecting the blend of the 4.6%
update for IPF TEFRA and the 4.3% update for IPF PPS payments).
The market basket update accounts for moving from a calendar
year to a rate year (the annual market basket is estimated to be
3.4%). As of December 31, 2006, we had six psychiatric
hospitals and 36 hospital psychiatric units.

Other

Under PPS, the payment rates are adjusted for the area
differences in wage levels by a factor (“wage index”)
reflecting the relative wage level in the geographic area
compared to the national average wage level. For federal fiscal
year 2006, CMS applied an occupational mix adjustment factor to
the wage index amounts for the first time, but limited the
adjustment to 10% of the wage index. CMS increased the
occupational mix adjustment to 100% for inpatient PPS effective
for federal fiscal year 2007 in the final rule published on
October 11, 2006.

MMA lowered the labor share for inpatient PPS payments for
hospitals with wage indices less than or equal to 1.0 from 71.1%
to 62.0%, effective October 1, 2004, unless the lower
percentage would result in lower payments to the hospital. This
change, in effect, increases payments for all hospitals whose
wage index is less than or equal to 1.0. For all other
hospitals, CMS lowered the 71.1% labor share to 69.7%, effective
October 1, 2005. Also, effective October 1, 2005, IRF
PPS adopted the Core-Based Statistical Area (“CBSA”)
definition of labor market geographic areas but have not adopted
an occupational mix adjustment. For federal fiscal year 2006,
IRFs received a blended (50/50) wage index based on the old and
new wage geographic definitions.

The occupational mix adjustment has not been applied to IPF PPS
at this time. However, in the final rule published on
May 9, 2006, CMS adopted the CBSA definition of labor
market geographic areas for IPF PPS effective July 1, 2006.

The adoption of the wage indices based upon the new wage
definitions and the adoption of the occupational mix adjustment
for inpatient PPS, while slightly negative in the aggregate, are
not anticipated to have a material financial impact for 2007.

CMS has a significant initiative underway that could affect the
administration of the Medicare program and impact how hospitals
bill and receive payment for covered Medicare services. In
accordance with MMA, CMS has initiated the implementation of
contractor reform whereby CMS will competitively bid the
Medicare fiscal intermediary and Medicare carrier functions to
Medicare Administrative Contractors



(“MACs”). Hospital companies will have the option to
work with the selected MAC in the jurisdiction where a given
hospital is located or to use the MAC in the jurisdiction where
the hospital company’s home office is located. We have
requested that CMS enable us to use more than one MAC but less
than the 12 MACs where our hospitals are located. CMS awarded
the first of the MAC contracts on July 31, 2006.
Jurisdiction 3, which includes the states of Arizona,
Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah and Wyoming, was
awarded to Noridian Administrative Services. HCA operates six
hospitals in Jurisdiction 3 and Mutual of Omaha continues
to serve as their fiscal intermediary. An additional seven
jurisdictions are expected to be awarded in July and September
of 2007, and the remaining seven jurisdictions are expected to
be awarded in September 2008. All of these changes could impact
claims processing functions and the resulting cash flow. We
cannot predict the impact that these changes could have on our
cash flow.

Effective January 1, 2007, as a result of DRA 2005,
reimbursements for ASC overhead costs are limited to no more
than the overhead costs paid to hospital outpatient departments
under the Medicare hospital outpatient prospective payment
system for the same procedure. In the Federal Register dated
August 23, 2006, CMS announced proposed regulations that,
if adopted, would change payment for procedures performed in an
ambulatory surgery center (“ASC”), effective
January 1, 2008. Under this proposal, ASC payment groups
would increase from the current nine clinically disparate
payment groups to the 221 APCs used under the outpatient
prospective payment system for these surgical services. CMS
estimates that the rates for procedures performed in an ASC
setting would equal 62% of the corresponding rates paid for the
same procedures performed in an outpatient hospital setting.
Moreover, under the proposed regulations, if CMS determines that
a procedure is commonly performed in a physician’s office,
the ASC reimbursement for that procedure would be limited to the
reimbursement allowable under the Medicare Part B Physician
Fee Schedule. Under this proposal, all surgical procedures,
other than those that pose a significant safety risk or
generally require an overnight stay, which would be listed by
CMS, would be payable as ASC procedures. This will expand the
number of procedures that Medicare will pay for if performed in
an ASC. CMS indicates in its discussion of the proposed
regulations that it believes that the volumes and service mix of
procedures provided in ASCs would change significantly in 2008
under the revised payment system, but that CMS is not able to
accurately project those changes. If the proposal is adopted,
more Medicare procedures that are now performed in hospitals may
be moved to ASCs, reducing surgical volume in our hospitals.
Also, more Medicare procedures that are now performed in ASCs
may be moved to physicians’ offices. Commercial third-party
payers may adopt similar policies. CMS has announced that the
final rule to implement a revised ASC payment system will be
published in a separate rule in 2007.

Hospital operating margins have been, and may continue to be,
under significant pressure because of deterioration in pricing
flexibility and payer mix, and growth in operating expenses in
excess of the increase in PPS payments under the Medicare
program.

Managed Medicare

Managed Medicare plans relate to situations where a private
company contracts with CMS to provide members with Medicare
Part A, Part B and Part D benefits. Managed
Medicare plans can be structured as HMOs, PPOs, or private
fee-for-service plans.

Medicaid

Medicaid programs are funded jointly by the federal government
and the states and are administered by states under approved
plans. Most state Medicaid program payments are made under a PPS
or are based on negotiated payment levels with individual
hospitals. Medicaid reimbursement is often less than a
hospital’s cost of services. The federal government and
many states are currently considering altering the level of
Medicaid funding (including upper payment limits) or program
eligibility that could adversely affect future levels of
Medicaid reimbursement received by our hospitals. As permitted
by law, certain states in which we operate have adopted
broad-based provider taxes to fund their Medicaid programs.

Since states must operate with balanced budgets and since the
Medicaid program is often the state’s largest program,
states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation
designed to reduce their



Medicaid expenditures. DRA 2005, signed into law on
February 8, 2006, includes Medicaid cuts of approximately
$4.8 billion over five years. In addition, proposed
regulatory changes, if implemented, would reduce federal
Medicaid funding by an additional $12.2 billion over five
years. On January 18, 2007, CMS published a proposed rule
entitled “Medicaid Program; Cost Limits for Providers
Operated by Units of Government and Provisions to Ensure the
Integrity of Federal-State Financial Partnership”. The
proposed rule, if finalized, could significantly impact state
Medicaid programs. It is uncertain if such rule will be
finalized. States have also adopted, or are considering,
legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility,
enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or
impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
the states’ Medicaid systems. Future legislation or other
changes in the administration or interpretation of government
health programs could have a material adverse effect on our
financial position and results of operations.

Managed Medicaid

Managed Medicaid programs relate to situations where states
contract with one or more entities for patient enrollment, care
management and claims adjudication. The states usually do not
abdicate program responsibilities for financing, eligibility
criteria and core benefit plan design. We generally contract
directly with one of the designated entities, usually a managed
care organization. The provisions of these programs are
state-specific.

Annual Cost Reports

All hospitals participating in the Medicare, Medicaid and
TRICARE programs, whether paid on a reasonable cost basis or
under a PPS, are required to meet certain financial reporting
requirements. Federal and, where applicable, state regulations
require the submission of annual cost reports covering the
revenue, costs and expenses associated with the services
provided by each hospital to Medicare beneficiaries and Medicaid
recipients.

Annual cost reports required under the Medicare and Medicaid
programs are subject to routine audits, which may result in
adjustments to the amounts ultimately determined to be due to us
under these reimbursement programs. These audits often require
several years to reach the final determination of amounts due to
or from us under these programs. Providers also have rights of
appeal, and it is common to contest issues raised in audits of
prior years’ reports.

Managed Care and Other Discounted Plans

Most of our hospitals offer discounts from established charges
to certain large group purchasers of health care services,
including managed care plans and private insurance companies.
Admissions reimbursed by managed care and other insurers were
36%, 42% and 42% of our total admissions for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively (prior to
2006, managed Medicare admissions, 6% of 2006 admissions, were
classified as managed care). Managed care contracts are
typically negotiated for one-year or two-year terms. While we
generally received annual average yield increases of six to
seven percent from managed care payers during 2006, there can be
no assurance that we will continue to receive increases in the
future.

Hospital Utilization

We believe that the most important factors relating to the
overall utilization of a hospital are the quality and market
position of the hospital and the number and quality of
physicians and other health care professionals providing patient
care within the facility. Generally, we believe the ability of a
hospital to be a market leader is determined by its breadth of
services, level of technology, emphasis on quality of care and
convenience for patients and physicians. Other factors that
impact utilization include the growth in local population, local
economic conditions and market penetration of managed care
programs.



The following table sets forth certain operating statistics for
our hospitals. Hospital operations are subject to certain
seasonal fluctuations, including decreases in patient
utilization during holiday periods and increases in the cold
weather months.



Competition

Generally, other hospitals in the local communities served by
most of our hospitals provide services similar to those offered
by our hospitals. Additionally, in the past several years the
number of freestanding surgery centers and diagnostic centers
(including facilities owned by physicians) in the geographic
areas in which we operate has increased significantly. As a
result, most of our hospitals operate in a highly competitive
environment. The rates charged by our hospitals are intended to
be competitive with those charged by other local hospitals for
similar services. In some cases, competing hospitals are more
established than our hospitals. Some competing hospitals are
owned by tax-supported government agencies and many others are
owned by not-for-profit entities that may be supported by
endowments, charitable contributions and tax revenues, and are
exempt from sales, property and income taxes. Such exemptions
and support are not available to our hospitals. In certain
localities there are large teaching hospitals that provide
highly specialized facilities, equipment and services which may
not be available at most of our hospitals. We are facing
increasing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals
and freestanding surgery centers for market share in high margin
services.

Psychiatric hospitals frequently attract patients from areas
outside their immediate locale and, therefore, our psychiatric
hospitals compete with both local and regional hospitals,
including the psychiatric units of general, acute care hospitals.

Our strategies are designed to ensure our hospitals are
competitive. We believe our hospitals compete within local
communities on the basis of many factors, including the quality
of care; ability to attract and retain quality physicians,
skilled clinical personnel and other health care professionals;
location; breadth of services; technology offered and prices
charged. We have increased our focus on operating outpatient
services with improved accessibility and more convenient service
for patients, and increased predictability and efficiency for
physicians.

Two of the most significant factors to the competitive position
of a hospital are the number and quality of physicians
affiliated with the hospital. Although physicians may at any
time terminate their affiliation with a hospital operated by us,
our hospitals seek to retain physicians with varied specialties
on the hospitals’ medical staffs and to attract other
qualified physicians. We believe that physicians refer patients
to a hospital on the basis of the quality and scope of services
it renders to patients and physicians, the quality of physicians
on the medical staff, the location of the hospital and the
quality of the hospital’s facilities, equipment and
employees. Accordingly, we strive to maintain and provide
quality facilities, equipment, employees and services for
physicians and patients.

Another major factor in the competitive position of a hospital
is management’s ability to negotiate service contracts with
purchasers of group health care services. Managed care plans
attempt to direct and control the use of hospital services and
obtain discounts from hospitals’ established gross charges.
In addition, employers and traditional health insurers are
increasingly interested in containing costs through negotiations
with hospitals for managed care programs and discounts from
established gross charges. Generally, hospitals compete for
service contracts with group health care services purchasers on
the basis of price, market reputation, geographic location,
quality and range of services, quality of the medical staff and
convenience. The importance of obtaining contracts with managed
care organizations varies from community to community, depending
on the market strength of such organizations.

State certificate of need (“CON”) laws, which place
limitations on a hospital’s ability to expand hospital
services and facilities, make capital expenditures and otherwise
make changes in operations, may also have the effect of
restricting competition. In those states which have no CON laws
or which set relatively high levels of expenditures before they
become reviewable by state authorities, competition in the form
of new services, facilities and capital spending is more
prevalent. See Item 1, “Business —
Regulation and Other Factors.”

We, and the health care industry as a whole, face the challenge
of continuing to provide quality patient care while dealing with
rising costs and strong competition for patients. Changes in
medical technology, existing and future legislation, regulations
and interpretations and managed care contracting for provider
services by private and government payers remain ongoing
challenges.



Admissions and average lengths of stay continue to be negatively
affected by payer-required preadmission authorization,
utilization review and payer pressure to maximize outpatient and
alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill
patients. Increased competition, admission constraints and payer
pressures are expected to continue. To meet these challenges, we
intend to expand many of our facilities or acquire or construct
new facilities to better enable the provision of a comprehensive
array of outpatient services, offer discounts to private payer
groups, upgrade facilities and equipment, and offer new or
expanded programs and services.

Regulation and Other Factors

Licensure, Certification and Accreditation

Health care facility construction and operation are subject to
numerous federal, state and local regulations relating to the
adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating
policies and procedures, maintenance of adequate records, fire
prevention, rate-setting and compliance with building codes and
environmental protection laws. Facilities are subject to
periodic inspection by governmental and other authorities to
assure continued compliance with the various standards necessary
for licensing and accreditation. We believe that our health care
facilities are properly licensed under applicable state laws.
All of our general, acute care hospitals are certified for
participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and are
accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations (“Joint Commission”). If any
facility were to lose its Joint Commission accreditation or
otherwise lose its certification under the Medicare and Medicaid
programs, the facility would be unable to receive reimbursement
from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Management believes our
facilities are in substantial compliance with current applicable
federal, state, local and independent review body regulations
and standards. The requirements for licensure, certification and
accreditation are subject to change and, in order to remain
qualified, it may become necessary for us to make changes in our
facilities, equipment, personnel and services. The requirements
for licensure also may include notification or approval in the
event of the transfer or change of ownership. Failure to obtain
the necessary state approval in these circumstances can result
in the inability to complete an acquisition or change of
ownership.

Certificates of Need

In some states where we operate hospitals, the construction or
expansion of health care facilities, the acquisition of existing
facilities, the transfer or change of ownership and the addition
of new beds or services may be subject to review by and prior
approval of state regulatory agencies under a CON program. Such
laws generally require the reviewing state agency to determine
the public need for additional or expanded health care
facilities and services. Failure to obtain necessary state
approval can result in the inability to expand facilities,
complete an acquisition or change ownership.

State Rate Review

Some states have adopted legislation mandating rate or budget
review for hospitals or have adopted taxes on hospital revenues,
assessments or licensure fees to fund indigent health care
within the state. In the aggregate, indigent tax provisions have
not materially, adversely affected our results of operations.
Although we do not currently operate facilities in states that
mandate rate or budget reviews, we cannot predict whether we
will operate in such states in the future, or whether the states
in which we currently operate may adopt legislation mandating
such reviews.

Utilization Review

Federal law contains numerous provisions designed to ensure that
services rendered by hospitals to Medicare and Medicaid patients
meet professionally recognized standards, are medically
necessary and that claims for reimbursement are properly filed.
These provisions include a requirement that a sampling of
admissions of Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed by
quality improvement organizations to assess the appropriateness
of Medicare and Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the
quality of care



provided, the validity of DRG classifications and the
appropriateness of cases of extraordinary length of stay or
cost. Quality improvement organizations may deny payment for
services provided, may assess fines and also have the authority
to recommend to HHS that a provider, which is in substantial
noncompliance with the appropriate standards, be excluded from
participating in the Medicare program. Most nongovernmental
managed care organizations also require utilization review.

Federal Health Care Program Regulations

Participation in any federal health care program, including the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, is heavily regulated by statute
and regulation. If a hospital fails to substantially comply with
the numerous conditions of participation in the Medicare and
Medicaid programs or performs certain prohibited acts, the
hospital’s participation in the federal health care
programs may be terminated, or civil or criminal penalties may
be imposed under certain provisions of the Social Security Act,
or both.

Anti-kickback Statute

A section of the Social Security Act known as the
“Anti-kickback Statute” prohibits providers and others
from directly or indirectly soliciting, receiving, offering or
paying any remuneration with the intent of generating referrals
or orders for services or items covered by a federal health care
program. Courts have interpreted this statute broadly.
Violations of the Anti-kickback Statute may be punished by a
criminal fine of up to $25,000 for each violation or
imprisonment, civil money penalties of up to $50,000 per
violation and damages of up to three times the total amount of
the remuneration and/or exclusion from participation in federal
health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Courts
have held that there is a violation of the Anti-kickback Statute
if just one purpose of the renumeration is to generate
referrals, even if there are other lawful purposes.

The Office of Inspector General at HHS (“OIG”), among
other regulatory agencies, is responsible for identifying and
eliminating fraud, abuse and waste. The OIG carries out this
mission through a nationwide program of audits, investigations
and inspections. As one means of providing guidance to health
care providers, the OIG issues “Special Fraud Alerts.”
These alerts do not have the force of law, but identify features
of arrangements or transactions that may indicate that the
arrangements or transactions violate the Anti-kickback Statute
or other federal health care laws. The OIG has identified
several incentive arrangements, which, if accompanied by
inappropriate intent, constitute suspect practices, including:
(a) payment of any incentive by the hospital each time a
physician refers a patient to the hospital, (b) the use of
free or significantly discounted office space or equipment in
facilities usually located close to the hospital,
(c) provision of free or significantly discounted billing,
nursing or other staff services, (d) free training for a
physician’s office staff in areas such as management
techniques and laboratory techniques, (e) guarantees which
provide that, if the physician’s income fails to reach a
predetermined level, the hospital will pay any portion of the
remainder, (f) low-interest or interest-free loans, or
loans which may be forgiven if a physician refers patients to
the hospital, (g) payment of the costs of a
physician’s travel and expenses for conferences,
(h) coverage on the hospital’s group health insurance
plans at an inappropriately low cost to the physician,
(i) payment for services (which may include consultations
at the hospital) which require few, if any, substantive duties
by the physician, (j) purchasing goods or services from
physicians at prices in excess of their fair market value, and
(k) rental of space in physician offices, at other than
fair market value terms, by persons or entities to which
physicians refer. The OIG has encouraged persons having
information about hospitals who offer the above types of
incentives to physicians to report such information to the OIG.

The OIG also issues Special Advisory Bulletins as a means of
providing guidance to health care providers. These bulletins,
along with the Special Fraud Alerts, have focused on certain
arrangements that could be subject to heightened scrutiny by
government enforcement authorities, including:
(a) contractual joint venture arrangements and other joint
venture arrangements between those in a position to refer
business, such as physicians, and those providing items or
services for which Medicare or Medicaid pays, and
(b) certain “gainsharing” arrangements, i.e., the
practice of giving physicians a share of any reduction in a
hospital’s costs for patient care attributable in part to
the physician’s efforts.



In addition to issuing Special Fraud Alerts and Special Advisory
Bulletins, the OIG issues compliance program guidance for
certain types of health care providers. In January 2005, the OIG
published Supplemental Compliance Guidance for Hospitals,
supplementing its 1998 guidance for the hospital industry. In
the supplemental guidance, the OIG identifies a number of risk
areas under federal fraud and abuse statutes and regulations.
These areas of risk include compensation arrangements with
physicians, recruitment arrangements with physicians and joint
venture relationships with physicians.

As authorized by Congress, the OIG has published safe harbor
regulations that outline categories of activities that are
deemed protected from prosecution under the Anti-kickback
Statute. Currently, there are statutory exceptions and safe
harbors for various activities, including the following:
investment interests, space rental, equipment rental,
practitioner recruitment, personnel services and management
contracts, sale of practice, referral services, warranties,
discounts, employees, group purchasing organizations, waiver of
beneficiary coinsurance and deductible amounts, managed care
arrangements, obstetrical malpractice insurance subsidies,
investments in group practices, freestanding surgery centers,
ambulance replenishing, and referral agreements for specialty
services. The fact that conduct or a business arrangement does
not fall within a safe harbor, or that it is identified in a
fraud alert or advisory bulletin or as a risk area in the
Supplemental Compliance Guidelines for Hospitals, does not
automatically render the conduct or business arrangement illegal
under the Anti-kickback Statute. However, such conduct and
business arrangements may lead to increased scrutiny by
government enforcement authorities. Although the Company
believes that its arrangements with physicians have been
structured to comply with current law and available
interpretations, there can be no assurance that regulatory
authorities enforcing these laws will determine these financial
arrangements do not violate the Anti-kickback Statute or other
applicable laws. An adverse determination could subject the
Company to liabilities under the Social Security Act, including
criminal penalties, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from
participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other federal health care
programs.

Stark Law

The Social Security Act also includes a provision commonly known
as the “Stark Law.” This law effectively prohibits
physicians from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to
entities with which they or any of their immediate family
members have a financial relationship, if these entities provide
certain “designated health services” that are
reimbursable by Medicare, including inpatient and outpatient
hospital services, clinical laboratory services and radiology
services. Sanctions for violating the Stark Law include denial
of payment, refunding amounts received for services provided
pursuant to prohibited referrals, civil monetary penalties of up
to $15,000 per prohibited service provided, and exclusion
from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The statute also
provides for a penalty of up to $100,000 for a circumvention
scheme. There are exceptions to the self-referral prohibition
for many of the customary financial arrangements between
physicians and providers, including employment contracts, leases
and recruitment agreements. There is also an exception for a
physician’s ownership interest in an entire hospital, as
opposed to an ownership interest in a hospital department.
Unlike safe harbors under the Anti-kickback Statute with which
compliance is voluntary, an arrangement must comply with every
requirement of a Stark Law exception or the arrangement is in
violation of the Stark Law.

CMS has issued two phases of regulations implementing the Stark
Law, which became effective on January 4, 2002 and
July 26, 2004, respectively, and which created several
additional exceptions. A third phase is expected to be issued by
March 2008. While these regulations help clarify the
requirements of the exceptions to the Stark Law, it is unclear
how the government will interpret many of them for enforcement
purposes.

In 2003, Congress passed legislation that modified the hospital
ownership exception to the Stark Law by creating an

18-month

moratorium on
allowing physicians to own interests in new specialty hospitals.
During the moratorium, HHS was required to conduct an analysis
of specialty hospitals, including quality of care provided and
physician referral patterns to these facilities. MedPAC was also
required to study cost and payment issues related to specialty
hospitals. The moratorium applied to hospitals that primarily or
exclusively treat cardiac, orthopedic or surgical conditions or
any other specialized category of patients or cases designated
by regulation, unless the hospitals were in operation or
development before November 18, 2003, did not



increase the number of physician investors, and met certain
other requirements. The moratorium expired on June 8, 2005.
In March 2005, MedPAC issued its report on specialty hospitals,
in which it recommended that Congress extend the moratorium
until January 1, 2007, modify payments to hospitals to
reflect more closely the cost of care, and allow certain types
of gainsharing arrangements. In May 2005, HHS issued the
required report of its analysis of specialty hospitals in which
it recommended reforming certain inpatient hospital services and
ambulatory surgery center services payment rates that may
currently encourage the establishment of specialty hospitals and
implementation of closer scrutiny of the processes for approving
new specialty hospitals for participation in Medicare. Further,
HHS suspended processing new provider enrollment applications
for specialty hospitals until January 2006, creating in effect a
moratorium on new specialty hospitals. DRA 2005, signed into law
February 8, 2006, directed HHS to extend this enrollment
suspension until the earlier of six months from the enactment of
DRA 2005 or the release of a report regarding physician owned
specialty hospitals by HHS. On August 8, 2006, HHS issued
its final report, in which it announced that it would resume
processing and certifying provider enrollment applications for
specialty hospitals. HHS also announced that it will require
hospitals to disclose any financial arrangements with
physicians. HHS has not announced when it will begin collecting
this data, the specific data that hospitals will be required to
submit or which hospitals will be required to provide
information.

Similar State Laws

Many states in which we operate also have laws that prohibit
payments to physicians for patient referrals, similar to the
Anti-kickback Statute and self-referral legislation similar to
the Stark Law. The scope of these state laws is broad, since
they can often apply regardless of the source of payment for
care, and little precedent exists for their interpretation or
enforcement. These statutes typically provide for criminal and
civil penalties, as well as loss of facility licensure.

HIPAA and BBA-97

The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
(“HIPAA”) broadened the scope of certain fraud and
abuse laws by adding several criminal provisions for health care
fraud offenses that apply to all health benefit programs. HIPAA
also added a prohibition against incentives intended to
influence decisions by Medicare beneficiaries as to the provider
from which they will receive services. In addition, HIPAA
created new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse,
including the Medicare Integrity Program, and an incentive
program under which individuals can receive up to $1,000 for
providing information on Medicare fraud and abuse that leads to
the recovery of at least $100 of Medicare funds. Federal
enforcement officials now have the ability to exclude from
Medicare and Medicaid any investors, officers and managing
employees associated with business entities that have committed
health care fraud, even if the officer or managing employee had
no knowledge of the fraud. HIPAA was followed by the Balanced
Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA-97”), which created
additional fraud and abuse provisions, including civil penalties
for contracting with an individual or entity that the provider
knows or should know is excluded from a federal health care
program.

Other Fraud and Abuse Provisions

The Social Security Act also imposes criminal and civil
penalties for making false claims and statements to Medicare and
Medicaid. False claims include, but are not limited to, billing
for services not rendered or for misrepresenting actual services
rendered in order to obtain higher reimbursement, billing for
unnecessary goods and services, and cost report fraud. Criminal
and civil penalties may be imposed for a number of other
prohibited activities, including failure to return known
overpayments, certain gainsharing arrangements, billing Medicare
amounts that are substantially in excess of a provider’s
usual charges, offering remuneration to influence a Medicare or
Medicaid beneficiary’s selection of a health care provider,
making or accepting a payment to induce a physician to reduce or
limit services and soliciting or receiving any remuneration in
return for referring an individual for an item or service
payable by a federal healthcare program. Like the Anti-kickback
Statute, these provisions are very broad. To avoid liability,
providers must, among other things, carefully and accurately
code claims for reimbursement, as well as accurately prepare
cost reports.



Some of these provisions, including the federal Civil Monetary
Penalty Law, require a lower burden of proof than other fraud
and abuse laws, including the Anti-kickback Statute. Civil
monetary penalties that may be imposed under the federal Civil
Monetary Penalty Law range from $10,000 to $50,000 per act,
and in some cases may result in penalties of up to three times
the remuneration offered, paid, solicited or received. In
addition, a violator may be subject to exclusion from federal
and state healthcare programs. Federal and state governments
increasingly use the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Law,
especially where they believe they cannot meet the higher burden
of proof requirements under the Anti-kickback Statute.

The Federal False Claims Act and Similar State Laws

The

qui tam,

or whistleblower, provisions of the federal
False Claims Act allow private individuals to bring actions on
behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has
defrauded the federal government. Further, the government may
use the False Claims Act to prosecute Medicare and other
government program fraud in areas such as coding errors, billing
for services not provided and submitting false cost reports.
When a defendant is determined by a court of law to be liable
under the False Claims Act, the defendant may be required to pay
three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus
mandatory civil penalties of between $5,500 and $11,000 for each
separate false claim. There are many potential bases for
liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises
when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement
to the federal government. The False Claims Act defines the term
“knowingly” broadly. Though simple negligence will not
give rise to liability under the False Claims Act, submitting a
claim with reckless disregard to its truth or falsity
constitutes a “knowing” submission under the False
Claims Act and, therefore, will qualify for liability.

In some cases, whistleblowers, the federal government and some
courts have taken the position that providers who allegedly have
violated other statutes, such as the Anti-kickback Statute and
the Stark Law, have thereby submitted false claims under the
False Claims Act. A number of states in which we operate have
adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own
whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a
civil lawsuit in state court.

HIPAA Administrative Simplification and Privacy
    Requirements

The Administrative Simplification Provisions of HIPAA require
the use of uniform electronic data transmission standards for
certain health care claims and payment transactions submitted or
received electronically. These provisions are intended to
encourage electronic commerce in the health care industry. HHS
has issued regulations implementing the HIPAA Administrative
Simplification Provisions and compliance with these regulations
became mandatory for our facilities in October 2003, although
CMS accepted noncompliant claims through September 30,
2005. HHS has proposed a rule that would establish standards for
electronic health care claims attachments. In addition, HIPAA
requires that each provider apply for and receive a National
Provider Identifier by May 2007. We believe that the cost of
compliance with these regulations has not had and is not
expected to have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial position or results of operations.

HIPAA also requires HHS to adopt standards to protect the
privacy and security of individually identifiable health-related
information. HHS issued regulations containing privacy standards
and compliance with these regulations became mandatory during
April 2003. The privacy regulations control the use and
disclosure of individually identifiable health-related
information, whether communicated electronically, on paper or
orally. The regulations also provide patients with significant
new rights related to understanding and controlling how their
health information is used or disclosed. HHS released final
security regulations that became mandatory during April 2005 and
require health care providers to implement administrative,
physical and technical practices to protect the security of
individually identifiable health information that is maintained
or transmitted electronically. We have developed and enforce a
HIPAA compliance plan, which we believe complies with HIPAA
privacy and security requirements and under which a HIPAA
compliance group monitors our compliance. The privacy
regulations and security regulations have and will continue to
impose significant costs on our facilities in order to comply
with these standards.



Violations of HIPAA could result in civil penalties of up to
$25,000 per type of violation in each calendar year and
criminal penalties of up to $250,000 per violation. In
addition, there are numerous legislative and regulatory
initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing patient
privacy concerns. Facilities will continue to remain subject to
any federal or state privacy-related laws that are more
restrictive than the privacy regulations issued under HIPAA.
These statutes vary and could impose additional penalties.

EMTALA

All of our hospitals are subject to the Emergency Medical
Treatment and Active Labor Act (“EMTALA”). This
federal law requires any hospital that participates in the
Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening
examination of every individual who presents to the
hospital’s emergency room for treatment and, if the
individual is suffering from an emergency medical condition, to
either stabilize that condition or make an appropriate transfer
of the individual to a facility that can handle the condition.
The obligation to screen and stabilize emergency medical
conditions exists regardless of an individual’s ability to
pay for treatment. There are severe penalties under EMTALA if a
hospital fails to screen or appropriately stabilize or transfer
an individual or if the hospital delays appropriate treatment in
order to first inquire about the individual’s ability to
pay. Penalties for violations of EMTALA include civil monetary
penalties and exclusion from participation in the Medicare
program. In addition, an injured individual, the
individual’s family or a medical facility that suffers a
financial loss as a direct result of a hospital’s violation
of the law can bring a civil suit against the hospital.

The government broadly interprets EMTALA to cover situations in
which individuals do not actually present to a hospital’s
emergency room, but present for emergency examination or
treatment to the hospital’s campus, generally, or to a
hospital-based clinic that treats emergency medical conditions
or are transported in a hospital-owned ambulance, subject to
certain exceptions. EMTALA does not generally apply to
individuals admitted for inpatient services. The government also
has expressed its intent to investigate and enforce EMTALA
violations actively in the future. We believe our hospitals
operate in substantial compliance with EMTALA.

Corporate Practice of Medicine/ Fee Splitting

Some of the states in which we operate have laws that prohibit
corporations and other entities from employing physicians and
practicing medicine for a profit or that prohibit certain direct
and indirect payments or fee-splitting arrangements between
health care providers that are designed to induce or encourage
the referral of patients to, or the recommendation of,
particular providers for medical products and services. Possible
sanctions for violation of these restrictions include loss of
license and civil and criminal penalties. In addition,
agreements between the corporation and the physician may be
considered void and unenforceable. These statutes vary from
state to state, are often vague and have seldom been interpreted
by the courts or regulatory agencies.

Health Care Industry Investigations

Significant media and public attention has focused in recent
years on the hospital industry. While we are currently not aware
of any material investigations of the Company under federal or
state health care laws or regulations, it is possible that
governmental entities could initiate investigations or
litigation in the future at facilities we operate and that such
matters could result in significant penalties as well as adverse
publicity. It is also possible that our executives and managers
could be included in governmental investigations or litigation
or named as defendants in private litigation.

Our substantial Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental
billings result in heightened scrutiny of our operations. We
continue to monitor all aspects of our business and have
developed a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that is
designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and
industry standards. Because the law in this area is complex and
constantly evolving, governmental investigations or litigation
may result in interpretations that are inconsistent with our or
industry practices.



In public statements surrounding current investigations,
governmental authorities have taken positions on a number of
issues, including some for which little official interpretation
previously has been available, that appear to be inconsistent
with practices that have been common within the industry and
that previously have not been challenged in this manner. In some
instances, government investigations that have in the past been
conducted under the civil provisions of federal law may now be
conducted as criminal investigations.

Both federal and state government agencies have increased their
focus on and coordination of civil and criminal enforcement
efforts in the health care area. The OIG and the Department of
Justice have, from time to time, established national
enforcement initiatives, targeting all hospital providers, that
focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of
abuse.

In addition to national enforcement initiatives, federal and
state investigations relate to a wide variety of routine health
care operations such as: cost reporting and billing practices,
including for Medicare outliers; financial arrangements with
referral sources; physician recruitment activities; physician
joint ventures; and hospital charges and collection practices
for self-pay patients. We engage in many of these routine health
care operations and other activities that could be the subject
of governmental investigations or inquiries. For example, we
have significant Medicare and Medicaid billings, numerous
financial arrangements with physicians who are referral sources
to our hospitals, and joint venture arrangements involving
physician investors. Any additional investigations of the
Company, our executives or managers could result in significant
liabilities or penalties to us, as well as adverse publicity.

Commencing in 1997, we became aware we were the subject of
governmental investigations and litigation relating to our
business practices. As part of the investigations, the United
States intervened in a number of

qui tam

actions brought
by private parties. The investigations related to, among other
things, DRG coding, outpatient laboratory billing, home health
issues, physician relations, cost report and wound care issues.
The investigations were concluded through a series of agreements
executed in 2000 and 2003 with the Criminal Division of the
Department of Justice, the Civil Division of the Department of
Justice, various U.S. Attorneys’ offices, CMS, a
negotiating team representing states with claims against us, and
others. In January 2001, we entered into an eight-year Corporate
Integrity Agreement (the “CIA”) with the Office of
Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
Services. Violation or breach of the CIA, or other violation of
federal or state laws relating to Medicare, Medicaid or similar
programs, could subject us to substantial monetary fines, civil
and criminal penalties and/or exclusion from participation in
the Medicare and Medicaid programs and other federal and state
health care programs. Alleged violations may be pursued by the
government or through private

qui tam

actions. Sanctions
imposed against us as a result of such actions could have a
material, adverse effect on our results of operations and
financial position.

Health Care Reform

Health care is one of the largest industries in the United
States and continues to attract much legislative interest and
public attention. In recent years, various legislative proposals
have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in some state
legislatures that would effect major changes in the health care
system, either nationally or at the state level. Many states
have enacted, or are considering enacting, measures designed to
reduce their Medicaid expenditures and change private health
care insurance. States have also adopted, or are considering,
legislation designed to reduce coverage and program eligibility,
enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and/or
impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand
states’ Medicaid systems. Some states, including the states
in which we operate, have applied for and have been granted
federal waivers from current Medicaid regulations to allow them
to serve some or all of their Medicaid participants through
managed care providers. Hospital operating margins have been,
and may continue to be, under significant pressure because of
deterioration in pricing flexibility and payer mix, and growth
in operating expenses in excess of the increase in PPS payments
under the Medicare program.

Compliance Program and Corporate Integrity Agreement

We maintain a comprehensive ethics and compliance program that
is designed to meet or exceed applicable federal guidelines and
industry standards. The program is intended to monitor and raise
awareness



of various regulatory issues among employees and to emphasize
the importance of complying with governmental laws and
regulations. As part of the ethics and compliance program, we
provide annual ethics and compliance training to our employees
and encourage all employees to report any violations to their
supervisor, an ethics and compliance officer or a toll-free
telephone ethics line.

Our CIA with the OIG is structured to assure the federal
government of our overall federal health care program compliance
and specifically covers DRG coding, outpatient PPS billing and
physician relations. We underwent major training efforts to
ensure that our employees learned and applied the policies and
procedures implemented under the CIA and our ethics and
compliance program. The CIA also included testing for outpatient
laboratory billing in 2001, which was replaced with skilled
nursing facilities billing in 2003. The CIA has had the effect
of increasing the amount of information we provide to the
federal government regarding our health care practices and our
compliance with federal regulations. Under the CIA, we have
numerous affirmative obligations, including the requirement that
we report potential violations of applicable federal health care
laws and regulations and have, pursuant to this obligation,
reported a number of potential violations of the Stark Law, the
Anti-kickback Statute, EMTALA and other laws, most of which we
consider to be nonviolations or technical violations. This
obligation could result in greater scrutiny by regulatory
authorities. Although no government agency has taken any adverse
action related to the CIA disclosures, the government could
determine that our reporting and/or our resolution of reported
issues has been inadequate. Breach of the CIA and/or a finding
of violations of applicable health care laws or regulations
could subject us to repayment requirements, substantial monetary
penalties, civil penalties, exclusion from participation in the
Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and state health care
programs and, for violations of certain laws and regulations,
criminal penalties.

Antitrust Laws

The federal government and most states have enacted antitrust
laws that prohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be
anti-competitive. These laws prohibit price fixing, concerted
refusal to deal, market monopolization, price discrimination,
tying arrangements, acquisitions of competitors and other
practices that have, or may have, an adverse effect on
competition. Violations of federal or state antitrust laws can
result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil
penalties. Antitrust enforcement in the health care industry is
currently a priority of the Federal Trade Commission. We believe
we are in compliance with such federal and state laws, but
future review of our practices by courts or regulatory
authorities could result in a determination that could adversely
affect our operations.

Environmental Matters

We are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and
ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the
environment. Management does not believe that we will be
required to expend any material amounts in order to comply with
these laws and regulations or that compliance will materially
affect our capital expenditures, results of operations or
financial condition.

Insurance

As is typical in the health care industry, we are subject to
claims and legal actions by patients in the ordinary course of
business. Our facilities are insured by our wholly-owned
insurance subsidiary for losses up to $50 million per
occurrence. The insurance subsidiary has obtained reinsurance
for professional liability risks generally above a retention
level of $15 million per occurrence. We also maintain
professional liability insurance with unrelated commercial
carriers for losses in excess of amounts insured by our
insurance subsidiary. Effective January 1, 2007, our
facilities will generally be self-insured for the first
$5 million of per occurrence losses.

We purchase, from unrelated insurance companies, coverage for
directors and officers liability and property loss in amounts
that we believe are customary for our industry. The directors
and officers liability coverage includes a $25 million
corporate deductible for the periods prior to the Merger and a
$1 million corporate deductible subsequent to the Merger. The
property coverage includes varying deductibles depending



on the cause of the property damage. These deductibles range
from $500,000 per claim up to 5% of the affected property
values for certain flood and wind and earthquake related
incidents.

Employees and Medical Staffs

At December 31, 2006, we had approximately 186,000
employees, including approximately 49,000 part-time
employees. References herein to “employees” refer to
employees of affiliates of HCA. We are subject to various state
and federal laws that regulate wages, hours, benefits and other
terms and conditions relating to employment. Employees at 21 and
16 of our hospitals were represented by various labor unions at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We consider our
employee relations to be satisfactory. Our hospitals have
experienced some recent union organizational activity. We had
elections at seven hospitals in Florida in the fourth quarter of
2006 and an election at one hospital in California in February
2007. We do not expect such efforts to materially affect our
future operations. Our hospitals, like most hospitals, have
experienced labor costs rising faster than the general inflation
rate. In some markets, nurse and medical support personnel
availability has become a significant operating issue to health
care providers. To address this challenge, we have implemented
several initiatives to improve retention, recruiting,
compensation programs and productivity. This shortage may also
require an increase in the utilization of more expensive
temporary personnel.

Our hospitals are staffed by licenced physicians, who generally
are not employees of our hospitals. However, some physicians
provide services in our hospitals under contracts which
generally describe a term of service, provide and establish the
duties and obligations of such physicians, require the
maintenance of certain performance criteria and fix compensation
for such services. Any licensed physician may apply to be
accepted to the medical staff of any of our hospitals, but the
hospital’s medical staff and the appropriate governing
board of the hospital, in accordance with established
credentialing criteria, must approve acceptance to the staff.
Members of the medical staffs of our hospitals often also serve
on the medical staffs of other hospitals and may terminate their
affiliation with one of our hospitals at any time.

Item 1A.

Risk Factors

Risk Factors

If any of the events discussed in the following risk factors
were to occur, our business, financial position, results of
operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially,
adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not
presently known, or currently deemed immaterial, may also
constrain our business and operations.

Our Substantial Leverage Could Adversely Affect Our Ability
To Raise Additional Capital To Fund Our Operations, Limit
Our Ability To React To Changes In The Economy Or Our Industry,
Expose Us To Interest Rate Risk To The Extent Of Our Variable
Rate Debt And Prevent Us From Meeting Our Obligations.

On November 17, 2006, we consummated the Merger with Merger
Sub, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hercules Holding, pursuant to
which the Investors acquired all of our outstanding shares of
common stock for $51.00 per share in cash. The Merger, the
financing transactions related to the Merger and other related
transactions had a transaction value of approximately
$33.0 billion and are collectively referred to in this
annual report as the “Recapitalization.” As a result
of the Recapitalization, our outstanding common stock is owned
by Hercules Holding, certain members of management and other key
employees, and certain other investors. Our common stock is no
longer registered with the SEC and is no longer traded on a
national securities exchange.



Since completing the Recapitalization, we are highly leveraged.
As of December 31, 2006, our total indebtedness was
$28.408 billion. Our high degree of leverage could have
important consequences, including:

We and our subsidiaries have the ability to incur additional
indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions
contained in our senior secured credit facilities and the
indentures governing our outstanding notes. If new indebtedness
is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we
now face could intensify.

Our Debt Agreements Contain Restrictions That Limit Our
    Flexibility In Operating Our Business.

Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures
governing our outstanding notes contain various covenants that
limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions.
These covenants limit our and certain of our subsidiaries’
ability to, among other things:

Under our asset-based revolving credit facility, when (and for
as long as) the combined availability under our asset-based
revolving credit facility and our senior secured revolving
credit facility is less than a specified amount, for a certain
period of time, or if a payment or bankruptcy event of default
has occurred and is continuing, funds deposited into any of our
depository accounts will be transferred on a daily basis into a
blocked account with the administrative agent and applied to
prepay loans under the asset-based revolving credit facility and
to cash collateralize letters of credit issued thereunder.

Under our senior secured credit facilities we will be required
to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability
to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond
our control, and there can be no assurance that we will meet
those ratios. A breach of any of these covenants could result in
a default under both of our senior secured credit facilities.
Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior
secured credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare
all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit
facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all
commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay
those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit
facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them
to secure each such indebtedness. We have pledged a significant
portion



of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit
facilities and our existing senior secured notes. If any of the
lenders under our senior secured credit facilities accelerate
the repayment of borrowings, there can be no assurance that we
will have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit
facilities and our outstanding notes.

Our Hospitals Face Competition For Patients From Other
    Hospitals And Health Care Providers.

The health care business is highly competitive, and competition
among hospitals and other health care providers for patients has
intensified in recent years. Generally, other hospitals in the
local communities served by most of our hospitals provide
services similar to those offered by our hospitals. In 2005, CMS
began making public performance data related to ten quality
measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare
reimbursement. On February 8, 2006, DRA 2005 was enacted by
Congress and expanded the number of quality measures that must
be reported to 21, beginning with discharges occurring in
the third quarter of 2006. If any of our hospitals achieve poor
results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on
these 21 quality measures, patient volumes could decline. In
addition, DRA 2005 requires that CMS expand the number of
quality measures in future years. On November 1, 2006, CMS
announced a final rule that expands to 26 the number of quality
measures that must be reported, beginning in the first quarter
of calendar year 2007, and requires, beginning in the third
quarter of calendar year 2007, that hospitals report the results
of a 27-question patient perspective survey. The additional
quality measures and future trends toward clinical transparency
may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and
patient volumes.

In addition, the number of freestanding specialty hospitals,
surgery centers and diagnostic and imaging centers in the
geographic areas in which we operate has increased
significantly. As a result, most of our hospitals operate in a
highly competitive environment. Some of the hospitals that
compete with our hospitals are owned by governmental agencies or
not-for-profit corporations supported by endowments, charitable
contributions and/or tax revenues and can finance capital
expenditures and operations on a tax-exempt basis. Our hospitals
are facing increasing competition from physician-owned specialty
hospitals and from both our own and unaffiliated freestanding
surgery centers for market share in high margin services and for
quality physicians and personnel. If ambulatory surgery centers
are better able to compete in this environment than our
hospitals, our hospitals may experience a decline in patient
volume, and we may experience a decrease in margin, even if
those patients use our ambulatory surgery centers. Further, if
our competitors are better able to attract patients, recruit
physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care
contracts at their facilities than our hospitals and ambulatory
surgery centers, we may experience an overall decline in patient
volume. See Item 1, “Business —
Competition.”

Section 507 of MMA provided for an

18-month

moratorium on
the establishment of new specialty hospitals. The moratorium
expired on June 8, 2005. However, HHS suspended processing
new provider enrollment applications for specialty hospitals
until January 2006, creating, in effect, a new moratorium on
specialty hospitals. DRA 2005 directed HHS to extend this
enrollment suspension until the earlier of six months from the
enactment of DRA 2005 or the release of a report regarding
physician owned specialty hospitals by HHS. On August 8,
2006, HHS issued its final report, in which it announced that it
would resume processing and certifying provider enrollment
applications. As a result of the moratorium being rescinded, we
face additional competition from an increased number of
specialty hospitals, including hospitals owned by physicians
currently on staff at our hospitals. In addition, HHS announced
that it will require all hospitals to disclose any physician
ownership and certain financial arrangements with physicians.
HHS has not announced when it will begin collecting this data,
the specific data that hospitals will be required to submit or
which hospitals will be required to provide information.

The Growth Of Uninsured And Patient Due Accounts And A
    Deterioration In The Collectibility Of These Accounts Could
    Adversely Affect Our Results Of Operations.

The primary collection risks of our accounts receivable relate
to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which
the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by
the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts
(deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. The provision
for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly
from patients.



The amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon
management’s assessment of historical writeoffs and
expected net collections, business and economic conditions,
trends in federal and state governmental and private employer
health care coverage, the rate of growth in uninsured patient
admissions and other collection indicators. At December 31,
2006, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented
approximately 86% of the $3.972 billion patient due
accounts receivable balance, including accounts, net of
estimated contractual discounts, related to patients for which
eligibility for Medicaid coverage was being evaluated
(“pending Medicaid accounts”). For the year ended
December 31, 2006, the provision for doubtful accounts
increased to 10.4% of revenues compared to 9.6% of revenues in
2005. Adjusting for the effect of the uninsured discount policy
implemented January 1, 2005, the provision for doubtful
accounts was 14.1% and 12.4% of revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

A continuation of the trends that have resulted in an increasing
proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured
accounts and a deterioration in the collectibility of these
accounts will adversely affect our collection of accounts
receivable, cash flows and results of operations.

Changes In Governmental Interpretations May Negatively Impact
    Our Ability To Obtain Reimbursement Of Medicare Bad Debts

The Medicare program will reimburse 70% of bad debts related to
deductibles and coinsurance for patients with Medicare coverage,
after the provider has made a reasonable effort to collect these
amounts. On March 30, 2006, the United States District
Court for the Western District of Michigan entered a final order
in

Battle Creek Health System v. Thompson,

which provided
that reasonable collection efforts have not been satisfied as
long as the Medicare accounts remained with an external
collection agency. The case is under appeal at the United States
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. We utilize extensive
in-house and external collection efforts for our accounts
receivable, including deductible and coinsurance amounts owed by
patients with Medicare coverage. However, we utilize a secondary
collection agency after in-house and primary collection agency
efforts have been unsuccessful. As a result of the

Battle
Creek

decision, we contacted CMS and outlined our collection
process and the reasons for our belief that Medicare bad debts
could be claimed for reimbursement after exhaustion of
collection efforts at the primary collection agency, but while
the accounts were still pending with the secondary collection
agency. CMS has responded to us consistent with the

Battle
Creek

decision. We are in continued discussions with CMS
concerning the proper timing to claim reimbursement for Medicare
bad debts. We incur approximately $30 million of Medicare
bad debts per year that are subject to the

Battle Creek

decision. We are unable to predict the outcome of the

Battle Creek

case or CMS’s final answer on the use
of external collection agencies. We are currently evaluating
possible modifications to our accounts receivable collection
processes that will both provide us with reasonable collection
results and comply with CMS’s interpretation of reasonable
collection efforts.

Changes In Governmental Programs May Reduce Our Revenues.

A significant portion of our patient volumes is derived from
government health care programs, principally Medicare and
Medicaid, which are highly regulated and subject to frequent and
substantial changes. We derived approximately 58% of our
admissions from the Medicare and Medicaid programs in 2006. In
recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted
in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of
payments to health care providers for certain services under
these government programs. Such changes may also increase our
operating costs, which could reduce our profitability.

Effective January 1, 2007, as a result of DRA 2005,
reimbursements for ASC overhead costs are limited to no more
than the overhead costs paid to hospital outpatient departments
under the Medicare hospital outpatient prospective payment
system for the same procedure. On August 8, 2006 CMS
announced proposed regulations that, if adopted, would change
payment for procedures performed in an ASC, effective
January 1, 2008. Under this proposal, ASC payment groups
would increase from the current nine clinically disparate
payment groups to the 221 Ambulatory Procedure Classification
groups (APCs) used under the outpatient prospective payment
system for these surgical services. CMS estimates that the rates
for procedures performed in an ASC setting would equal 62% of
the corresponding rates paid for the same procedures performed
in an outpatient hospital setting. Moreover, under the proposed
regulations, if CMS determines



that a procedure is commonly performed in a physician’s
office, the ASC reimbursement for that procedure would be
limited to the reimbursement allowable under the Medicare
Part B Physician Fee Schedule. In addition, under this
proposal, all surgical procedures, other than those that pose a
significant safety risk or generally require an overnight stay,
which would be listed by CMS, would be payable as ASC
procedures. This will expand the number of procedures that
Medicare will pay for if performed in an ASC. CMS indicates in
its discussion of the proposed regulations that it believes that
the volumes and service mix of procedures provided in ASCs would
change significantly in 2008 under the revised payment system,
but that CMS is not able to accurately project those changes. If
the proposal is adopted, more Medicare procedures that are now
performed in hospitals, such as ours, may be moved to ASCs
reducing surgical volume in our hospitals. Also, more Medicare
procedures that are now performed in ASCs, such as ours, may be
moved to physicians’ offices. Commercial third-party payers
may adopt similar policies.

On August 1, 2006, CMS announced a final rule that refines
the DRG payment system. CMS announced that it is considering
additional changes effective in federal fiscal year 2008. We
cannot predict the impact that any such changes, if finalized,
would have on our revenues. Future realignments in the DRG
system could also reduce the margins we receive for certain
specialties, including cardiology and orthopedics. In fact, the
greater popularity of specialty hospitals in recent years has
caused CMS to focus on payment levels for such specialties. Any
such change in the payments received for specialty services
could have an adverse effect on our revenues and could require
us to modify our strategy. Other Medicare payment changes may
also affect our revenues. See Item 1.
“Business — Sources of Revenue.” DRG rates
are updated and DRG weights are recalibrated each federal fiscal
year. The index used to update the market basket gives
consideration to the inflation experienced by hospitals and
entities outside the health care industry in purchasing goods
and services. MMA, as amended by DRA 2005, provides for DRG
increases using the full market basket if data for certain
patient care quality indicators is submitted quarterly to CMS,
and using the market basket minus two percentage points if such
data is not submitted. While we will endeavor to comply with all
data submission requirements, our submissions may not be deemed
timely or sufficient to entitle us to the full market basket
adjustment for all of our hospitals.

Since states must operate with balanced budgets and since the
Medicaid program is often the state’s largest program,
states can be expected to adopt or consider adopting legislation
designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures. DRA 2005, signed
into law on February 8, 2006, includes Medicaid cuts of
approximately $4.8 billion over five years. In addition,
proposed regulatory changes, if implemented, would reduce
federal Medicaid funding by an additional $12.2 billion
over five years. On January 18, 2007, CMS published a
proposed rule entitled “Medicaid Program; Cost Limits for
Providers Operated by Units of Government and Provisions to
Ensure the Integrity of Federal-State Financial
Partnership.” The proposed rule, if finalized, could
significantly impact state Medicaid programs. It is uncertain if
the rule will be finalized. States have also adopted, or are
considering, legislation designed to reduce coverage and program
eligibility, enroll Medicaid recipients in managed care programs
and/or impose additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or
expand the states’ Medicaid systems. Future legislation or
other changes in the administration or interpretation of
government health programs could have a material adverse effect
on our financial position and results of operations.

Demands Of Nongovernment Payers May Adversely Affect Our
    Growth In Revenues.

Our ability to negotiate favorable contracts with nongovernment
payers, including managed care plans, significantly affects the
revenues and operating results of most of our hospitals.
Admissions derived from managed care and other insurers
accounted for approximately 36% of our admissions in 2006.
Nongovernment payers, including managed care payers,
increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures, and the
trend toward consolidation among nongovernment payers tends to
increase their bargaining power over fee structures. Reductions
in price increases or the amounts received from managed care,
commercial insurance or other payers could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position and results of
operations.



Our Performance Depends On Our Ability To Recruit And Retain
    Quality Physicians.

Physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions,
and the success of our hospitals depends, therefore, in part on
the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs
of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians
and maintaining good relations with those physicians. Physicians
are generally not employees of the hospitals at which they
practice and, in many of the markets that we serve, most
physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in
addition to our hospitals. Such physicians may terminate their
affiliation with our hospitals at any time. If we are unable to
provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced
equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those
physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to
our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating
performance may decline.

Our Hospitals Face Competition For Staffing, Which May
    Increase Labor Costs And Reduce Profitability.

Our operations are dependent on the efforts, abilities and
experience of our management and medical support personnel, such
as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians, as well as our
physicians. We compete with other health care providers in
recruiting and retaining qualified management and support
personnel responsible for the daily operations of each of our
hospitals, including nurses and other nonphysician health care
professionals. In some markets, the availability of nurses and
other medical support personnel has become a significant
operating issue to health care providers. This shortage may
require us to continue to enhance wages and benefits to recruit
and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or to hire
more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the
available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in
each of the markets in which we operate. In addition, to the
extent that a significant portion of our employee base
unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could
increase. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to
raise rates to offset these increased costs. Because a
significant percentage of our revenues consists of fixed,
prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor
costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain
qualified management, nurses and other medical support
personnel, or to control labor costs, could have a material,
adverse effect on our results of operations.

If We Fail To Comply With Extensive Laws And Government
    Regulations, We Could Suffer Penalties Or Be Required To Make
    Significant Changes To Our Operations.

The health care industry is required to comply with extensive
and complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local
government levels relating to, among other things:



Among these laws are the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark Law
and the False Claims Act and similar state laws. These laws
impact the relationships that we may have with physicians and
other referral sources. We have a variety of financial
relationships with physicians and others who either refer or
influence the referral of patients to our hospitals and other
health care facilities, including employment contracts, leases
and professional service agreements. We also have similar
relationships with physicians and facilities to which patients
are referred from our facilities from time to time. We also
provide financial incentives, including minimum revenue
guarantees, to recruit physicians into the communities served by
our hospitals. The OIG has enacted safe harbor regulations that
outline practices that are deemed protected from prosecution
under the Anti-kickback Statute. While we endeavor to comply
with the applicable safe harbors, certain of our current
arrangements, including joint ventures and financial
relationships with physicians and other referral sources and
persons and entities to which we refer patients, do not qualify
for safe harbor protection. Failure to qualify for a safe harbor
does not mean that the arrangement necessarily violates the
Anti-kickback Statute but may subject the arrangement to greater
scrutiny; however, we cannot assure you that practices that are
outside of a safe harbor will not be found to violate the
Anti-kickback Statute. Allegations of violations of the
Anti-kickback Statute may also be brought under the federal
Civil Monetary Penalty Law, which requires a lower burden of
proof than other fraud and abuse laws, including the
Anti-kickback Statute.

Our financial relationships with referring physicians and their
immediate family members must comply with the Stark Law by
meeting an exception. We attempt to structure our relationships
to meet an exception to the Stark Law, but the regulations
implementing the exceptions are detailed and complex, and we
cannot assure you that every relationship complies fully with
the Stark Law. Unlike the Anti-kickback Statute, failure to meet
an exception under the Stark Law results in a violation of the
Stark Law, even if such violation is technical in nature.

Additionally, if we violate the Anti-kickback Statute or Stark
Law, or if we improperly bill for our services, we may be found
to violate the False Claims Act, either under a suit brought by
the government or by a private person under a

qui tam

, or
“whistleblower,” suit.

If we fail to comply with the Anti-kickback Statute, the Stark
Law, the False Claims Act or other applicable laws and
regulations, or if we fail to maintain an effective corporate
compliance program, we could be subjected to liabilities,
including civil penalties (including the loss of our licenses to
operate one or more facilities), exclusion of one or more
facilities from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid and
other federal and state health care programs and, for violations
of certain laws and regulations, criminal penalties. See
Item 1, “Business — Regulation and Other
Factors.”

Because many of these laws and their implementation regulations
are relatively new, we do not always have the benefit of
significant regulatory or judicial interpretation of these laws
and regulations. In the future, different interpretations or
enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our
current or past practices to allegations of impropriety or
illegality or could require us to make changes in our
facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure
programs and operating expenses. A determination that we have
violated these laws, or the public announcement that we are
being investigated for possible violations of these laws, could
have a material, adverse effect our business, financial
condition, results of operations or prospects, and our business
reputation could suffer significantly. In addition, other
legislation or regulations at the federal or state level may be
adopted that adversely affect our business.

We Have Been The Subject Of Governmental Investigations,
    Claims And Litigation

Commencing in 1997, we became aware that we were the subject of
governmental investigations and litigation relating to our
business practices. The investigations were concluded through a
series of agreements executed in 2000 and 2003. In January 2001,
we entered into an eight-year Corporate Integrity Agreement
(“CIA”) with the OIG. Under the CIA, we have numerous
affirmative obligations, including the requirement that we
report potential violations of applicable federal health care
laws and regulations and have, pursuant to this obligation,
reported a number of potential violations of the Stark Law, the
Anti-kickback Statute, EMTALA and other laws, most of which we
consider to be nonviolations or technical violations. Although
no government agency has taken any adverse action related to the
CIA disclosures, the government could



determine that our reporting and/or our resolution of reported
issues have been inadequate. If we are found to be in violation
of the CIA or any applicable health care laws or regulations, we
could be subject to repayment requirements, substantial monetary
fines, civil penalties, exclusion from participation in the
Medicare and Medicaid and other federal and state health care
programs, and, for violations of certain laws and regulations,
criminal penalties. Any such sanctions or expenses could have a
material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.

In September 2005, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York
seeking the production of documents. Also in September 2005, we
were informed that the SEC had issued a formal order of
investigation. Both the subpoena and the formal order of
investigation relate to trading in our securities. We are
cooperating fully with these investigations.

Subsequently, we and certain of our executive officers and
directors were named in various federal securities law class
actions and several shareholders have filed derivative lawsuits
purportedly on behalf of the Company. Additionally, a former
employee filed a complaint against certain of our executive
officers pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act, and we have been served with a shareholder demand letter
addressed to our Board of Directors. We cannot predict the
results of the investigations or any related lawsuits or the
effect that findings in such investigations or lawsuits adverse
to us may have on us. We have, however, reached an agreement in
principle for the settlement of the derivative lawsuits.

On July 24, 2006, we announced that we had entered into the
Merger Agreement. In connection with the Merger, we are aware of
eight asserted class action lawsuits related to the Merger filed
against us, certain of our executive officers, our directors and
the Sponsors, and one lawsuit filed against us and one of our
affiliates seeking enforcement of contractual obligations
allegedly arising from the Merger. Certain of these lawsuits,
though not all, are the subject of an agreement in principle to
settle. Additional lawsuits pertaining to the Merger could be
filed in the future. These proceedings are described in greater
detail under Item 3, “Legal Proceedings.”

Health care companies are subject to numerous investigations by
various governmental agencies. Further, under the federal False
Claims Act, private parties have the right to bring

qui
tam

, or “whistleblower,” suits against companies
that submit false claims for payments to the government. Some
states have adopted similar state whistleblower and false claims
provisions. From time to time, companies doing business under
federal health care programs may be contacted by various
governmental agencies in connection with a government
investigation either brought by the government or by a private
person under a

qui tam

action. Because of the
confidential nature of some government investigations or a
confidential seal under the federal False Claims Act, we do not
always know the particulars of the allegations or concerns at
the time the government notifies us that an investigation is
proceeding. Certain of our individual facilities have received,
and other facilities from time to time may receive, government
inquiries from federal and state agencies. Depending on whether
the underlying conduct in these or future inquiries or
investigations could be considered systemic, their resolution
could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position,
results of operations and liquidity.

From time to time, governmental agencies and their agents, such
as the Medicare Administrative Contractors, fiscal
intermediaries and carriers, as well as the OIG, conduct audits
of our health care operations. Private payers may conduct
similar post-payment audits, and we also perform internal audits
and monitoring. Depending on the nature of the conduct found in
such audits and whether the underlying conduct could be
considered systemic, the resolution of these audits could have a
material, adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations and liquidity.

Controls Designed To Reduce Inpatient Services May Reduce Our
    Revenues.

Controls imposed by Medicare and commercial third-party payers
designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly
referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and
are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Utilization
review entails the review of the admission and course of
treatment of a patient by health plans. Inpatient utilization,
average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be
negatively affected by payer-required preadmission authorization
and utilization review and by payer pressure to maximize
outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for
less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose



more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Although
we are unable to predict the effect these changes will have on
our operations, significant limits on the scope of services
reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a
material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and
results of operations.

Our Operations Could Be Impaired By A Failure Of Our
    Information Systems.

Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or
availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or
delay the collection of revenue. Even though we have implemented
network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to
computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from
unauthorized tampering. The occurrence of any of these events
could result in interruptions, delays, the loss or corruption of
data, or cessations in the availability of systems, all of which
could have a material, adverse effect on our financial position
and results of operations and harm our business reputation.

The performance of our sophisticated information technology and
systems is critical to our business operations. In addition to
our shared services initiatives, our information systems are
essential to a number of critical areas of our operations,
including:

We are in the process of implementing projects to replace our
payroll and human resources information systems. Management
estimates that the payroll and human resources system projects
will require total expenditures of approximately
$333 million to develop and install. At December 31,
2006,

project-to

-date
costs incurred were $295 million ($160 million of the
costs incurred have been capitalized and $135 million have
been expensed). Management expects that the system development,
testing, data conversion and installation will continue through
2007.

State Efforts To Regulate The Construction Or Expansion Of
    Hospitals Could Impair Our Ability To Operate And Expand Our
    Operations.

Some states, particularly in the eastern part of the country,
require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as
a certificate of need, for the purchase, construction or
expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital
expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. In
giving approval, these states consider the need for additional
or expanded health care facilities or services. We currently
operate hospitals in a number of states with certificate of need
laws. The failure to obtain any requested certificate of need
could impair our ability to operate or expand operations. Any
such failure could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to
attract patients to our hospitals and grow our revenues, which
would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

Our Facilities Are Heavily Concentrated In Florida And Texas,
    Which Makes Us Sensitive To Regulatory, Economic, Environmental
    And Competitive Changes In Those States.

We operated 173 hospitals at December 31, 2006, and 73 of
those hospitals are located in Florida and Texas. Our Florida
and Texas facilities’ combined revenues represented
approximately 51% of our consolidated revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2006. This concentration makes us
particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic, environmental
and competition changes in those states. Any material change in
the



current payment programs or regulatory, economic, environmental
or competitive conditions in those states could have a
disproportionate effect on our overall business results.

In addition, our hospitals in Florida and Texas and other areas
across the Gulf Coast are located in hurricane-prone areas. In
the recent past, hurricanes have had a disruptive effect on the
operations of our hospitals in Florida, Texas and other coastal
states, and the patient populations in those states. Our
business activities could be harmed by a particularly active
hurricane season or even a single storm. In addition, the
premiums to renew our property insurance policy for 2006 and
2007 increased significantly over premiums incurred in 2005. Our
new policy also includes an increase in the stated deductible
and we were not able to obtain coverage in the amounts we have
had under our policies prior to 2006. As a result of such
increases in premiums and deductibles, we expect that our cash
flows and profitability will be adversely affected. In addition,
the property insurance we obtain may not be adequate to cover
losses from future hurricanes or other natural disasters.

We May Be Subject To Liabilities From Claims By The IRS.

We are currently contesting claims for income taxes, interest
and penalties proposed by the IRS for prior years aggregating
approximately $678 million through December 31, 2006.
The disputed items include the deductibility of a portion of the
2001 government settlement payment, the timing of recognition of
certain patient service revenues in 2000 through 2002, the
method for calculating the tax allowance for uncollectible
accounts in 2002 and the amount of insurance expense deducted in
1999 through 2002.

During 2006, the IRS began an examination of our 2003 through
2004 federal income tax returns. The IRS has not determined the
amount of any additional income tax, interest and penalties that
it may claim upon completion of this examination or any future
examinations that may be initiated. See “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Pending IRS Disputes.”

We May Be Subject To Liabilities From Claims Brought Against
    Our Facilities.

We are subject to litigation relating to our business practices,
including claims and legal actions by patients and others in the
ordinary course of business alleging malpractice, product
liability or other legal theories. See Item 3, “Legal
Proceedings.” Many of these actions involve large claims
and significant defense costs. We insure a substantial portion
of our professional liability risks through a wholly-owned
subsidiary. Management believes our insurance coverage is
sufficient to cover claims arising out of the operation of our
facilities. Our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary has entered
into certain reinsurance contracts, and the obligations covered
by the reinsurance contracts are included in its reserves for
professional liability risks, as the subsidiary remains liable
to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet their obligations
under the reinsurance contracts. If payments for claims exceed
actuarially determined estimates, are not covered by insurance
or reinsurers, if any, fail to meet their obligations, our
results of operations and financial position could be adversely
affected.

We Are Exposed To Market Risks Related To Changes In The
    Market Values Of Securities And Interest Rate Changes.

We are exposed to market risk related to changes in market
values of securities. The investments in debt and equity
securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were
$2.129 billion and $14 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2006. These investments are carried at fair
value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being
recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. The fair
value of investments is generally based on quoted market prices.
At December 31, 2006, we had a net unrealized gain of
$25 million on the insurance subsidiary’s investment
securities.

We are also exposed to market risk related to changes in
interest rates and periodically enter into interest rate swap
agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. Our
interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and
variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on
common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. The net
interest payments based on the notional amounts in these
agreements generally match the timing of the cash flows of the
related liabilities. The notional amounts of the



swap agreements represent balances used to calculate the
exchange of cash flows and are not assets or liabilities of HCA.
Any market risk or opportunity associated with these swap
agreements is offset by the opposite market impact on the
related debt. See Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk.”

Since The Merger, The Investors Control Us And May Have
    Conflicts Of Interest With Us In The Future.

The Investors indirectly own approximately 97.5% of our capital
stock due to the Recapitalization. As a result, the Investors
have control over our decisions to enter into any corporate
transaction and have the ability to prevent any transaction that
requires the approval of shareholders. For example, the
Investors could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the
amount of our indebtedness or sell assets.

Additionally, the Sponsors are in the business of making
investments in companies and may acquire and hold interests in
businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. One or
more of the Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities
that may be complementary to our business and, as a result,
those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So
long as investment funds associated with or designated by the
Sponsors continue to indirectly own a significant amount of the
outstanding shares of our common stock, even if such amount is
less than 50%, the Sponsors will continue to be able to strongly
influence or effectively control our decisions.



Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.

Properties

The following table lists, by state, the number of hospitals
(general, acute care, psychiatric and rehabilitation) directly
or indirectly owned and operated by us as of December 31,
2006:

In addition to the hospitals listed in the above table, we
directly or indirectly operate 107 freestanding surgery centers.
We also operate medical office buildings in conjunction with
some of our hospitals. These office buildings are primarily
occupied by physicians who practice at our hospitals.

We maintain our headquarters in approximately
918,000 square feet of space in the Nashville, Tennessee
area. In addition to the headquarters in Nashville, we maintain
regional service centers related to our shared services
initiatives. These service centers are located in markets in
which we operate hospitals.

Our headquarters, hospitals and other facilities are suitable
for their respective uses and are, in general, adequate for our
present needs. Our properties are subject to various federal,
state and local statutes and ordinances regulating their
operation. Management does not believe that compliance with such
statutes and ordinances will materially affect our financial
position or results of operations.



Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

We operate in a highly regulated and litigious industry. As a
result, various lawsuits, claims and legal and regulatory
proceedings have been and can be expected to be instituted or
asserted against us. The resolution of any such lawsuits, claims
or legal and regulatory proceedings could materially and
adversely affect our results of operations and financial
position in a given period.

Government Investigation, Claims and Litigation

In January 2001, we entered into an eight-year CIA with the
Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and
Human Services. Violation or breach of the CIA, or other
violation of federal or state laws relating to Medicare,
Medicaid or similar programs, could subject us to substantial
monetary fines, civil and criminal penalties and/or exclusion
from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and
other federal and state health care programs. Alleged violations
may be pursued by the government or through private

qui tam

actions. Sanctions imposed against us as a result of such
actions could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial position.

Governmental Investigations

In September 2005, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York
seeking the production of documents. Also in September 2005, we
were informed that the SEC had issued a formal order of
investigation. Both the subpoena and the formal order of
investigation relate to trading in our securities. We are
cooperating fully with these investigations.

Securities Class Action Litigation

In November 2005, two putative federal securities law class
actions were filed in the United States District Court for the
Middle District of Tennessee seeking monetary damages on behalf
of persons who purchased our stock between January 12, 2005
and July 13, 2005. These substantially similar lawsuits
assert claims pursuant to Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
Exchange Act, and
Rule

10b-5

promulgated thereunder, against us and our Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer, and
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, related to
our July 13, 2005 announcement of preliminary results of
operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.

On January 5, 2006, the court consolidated these actions
and all later-filed related securities actions under the caption

In re HCA Inc. Securities Litigation

, case
number 3:05-CV-00960. Pursuant to federal statute, on
January 25, 2006, the court appointed co-lead plaintiffs to
represent the interests of the asserted class members in this
litigation. Co-lead plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended
complaint on April 21, 2006. We believe that the
allegations contained within these class action lawsuits are
without merit and intend to vigorously defend the litigation.

On June 27, 2006, we and each of the defendants moved to
dismiss the consolidated amended complaint, and these motions
are still pending.

Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits in Federal Court

In November 2005, two then current shareholders each filed a
derivative lawsuit, purportedly on behalf of our company, in the
United States District Court for the Middle District of
Tennessee against our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer, other executives, and certain
members of our Board of Directors. Each lawsuit asserts claims
for breaches of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross
mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment
in connection with our July 13, 2005 announcement of
preliminary results of operations for the quarter ended
June 30, 2005 and seeks monetary damages.

On January 23, 2006, the Court consolidated these actions
as

In re HCA Inc. Derivative Litigation

, lead case
number 3:05-CV-0968. The court stayed this action on
February 27, 2006, pending resolution of a motion to
dismiss the consolidated amended complaint in the related
federal securities class action against us. On



March 24, 2006, a consolidated derivative complaint was
filed pursuant to a prior court order. On November 8, 2006,
we reached an agreement in principle for the settlement of this
consolidated action. The proposed settlement is subject to
definitive documentation and court approval.

Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit in State Court

On January 18, 2006, a then current shareholder filed a
derivative lawsuit, purportedly on behalf of our company, in the
Circuit Court for the State of Tennessee (Nashville District),
against our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, President and
Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, other executives, and certain members of our
Board of Directors. This lawsuit is substantially identical in
all material respects to the consolidated federal litigation
described above under “Shareholder Derivative Lawsuits in
Federal Court.” The Court stayed this action on
April 3, 2006, pending resolution of a motion to dismiss
the consolidated amended complaint in the related federal
securities class action against us. On November 8, 2006, we
reached an agreement in principle for the settlement of this
action. The proposed settlement is subject to definitive
documentation and court approval.

ERISA Litigation

On November 22, 2005, Brenda Thurman, a former employee of
an HCA affiliate, filed a complaint in the United States
District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee on behalf of
herself, the HCA Savings and Retirement Program (the
“Plan”), and a class of participants in the Plan who
held an interest in our common stock, against our Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, President and Chief Operating Officer,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and other
unnamed individuals. The lawsuit, filed under sections 502(a)(2)
and 502(a)(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
(“ERISA”), 29 U.S.C. §§ 1132(a)(2)
and (3), alleges that defendants breached their fiduciary duties
owed to the Plan and to plan participants and seeks monetary
damages and injunctions and other relief.

On January 13, 2006, the court signed an order staying all
proceedings and discovery in this matter, pending resolution of
a motion to dismiss the consolidated amended complaint in the
related federal securities class action against HCA. On
January 18, 2006, the magistrate judge signed an order
(1) consolidating Thurman’s cause of action with all
other future actions making the same claims and arising out of
the same operative facts, (2) appointing Thurman as lead
plaintiff, and (3) appointing Thurman’s attorneys as
lead counsel and liaison counsel in the case. On
January 26, 2006, the court issued an order reassigning the
case to United States District Court Judge William J.
Haynes, Jr., who has been presiding over the federal
securities class action and federal derivative lawsuits.

Merger Litigation in State Court

We are aware of six asserted class action lawsuits related to
the Merger filed against us, our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer, our President and Chief Operating Officer, members of
the Board of Directors and each of the Sponsors in the Chancery
Court for Davidson County, Tennessee. The complaints are
substantially similar and allege, among other things, that the
Merger was the product of a flawed process, that the
consideration to be paid to our shareholders in the Merger was
unfair and inadequate, and that there was a breach of fiduciary
duties. The complaints further allege that the Sponsors abetted
the actions of our officers and directors in breaching their
fiduciary duties to our shareholders. The complaints sought,
among other relief, an injunction preventing completion of the
Merger. On August 3, 2006, the Chancery Court consolidated
these actions and all later-filed actions as

In re HCA Inc.
Shareholder Litigation

, case number 06-1816-III.

On November 8, 2006, we and the other named parties entered
into a memorandum of understanding with plaintiffs’ counsel
in connection with these actions.

Under the terms of the memorandum, we, the other named parties
and the plaintiffs have agreed to settle the lawsuit subject to
court approval. If the court approves the settlement
contemplated in the memorandum, the lawsuit will be dismissed
with prejudice. We and the other defendants deny all of the
allegations in the lawsuit. Pursuant to the terms of the
memorandum, Hercules Holding agreed to waive that portion in
excess



of $220 million of any termination fee that it has a right
to receive under the Merger Agreement. Also, we and the other
parties agreed not to assert that a then current
shareholder’s demand for appraisal is untimely under
Section 262 of the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware (the “DGCL”) where such shareholder submitted
a written demand for appraisal within 30 calendar days of the
shareholders meeting held to adopt the Merger Agreement (with
any such deadline being extended to the following business day
should the 30th day fall on a holiday or weekend). We and
the other parties also agreed not to assert that (i) the
surviving corporation in the Merger or then current shareholder
who was entitled to appraisal rights may not file a petition in
the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware demanding a
determination of the value of the shares held by all such
shareholders if such petition is not filed within 120 days
of the effective time of the Merger so long as such petition is
filed within 150 days of the effective time, (ii) a
then current shareholder may not withdraw such
shareholder’s demand for appraisal and accept the terms
offered by the Merger if such withdrawal is not made within
60 days of the effective time of the Merger so long as such
withdrawal is made within 90 days of the effective time of
the Merger and (iii) that a then current shareholder may
not, upon written request, receive from the surviving
corporation a statement setting forth the aggregate number of
shares not voted in favor of the Merger with respect to which
demands for appraisal have been received and the aggregate
number of holders of such shares if such request is not made
within 120 days of the effective time of the Merger so long
as such request is made within 150 days of the effective
time.

Two cases making similar allegations and seeking similar relief
on behalf of purported classes of then current shareholders have
also been filed in Delaware. These two actions have also been
consolidated under case number 2307-N and are pending in the
Delaware Chancery Court, New Castle County. We believe this
lawsuit is without merit and plan to defend it vigorously. We
further believe the claims asserted in this lawsuit are subject
to the November 8, 2006 agreement in principle to settle
the Merger litigation and shareholder derivative lawsuits.

On October 23, 2006, the Foundation for Seacoast Health
filed a lawsuit against us and one of our affiliates, HCA Health
Services of New Hampshire, Inc., in the Superior Court of
Rockingham County, New Hampshire. Among other things, the
complaint seeks to enforce certain provisions of an asset
purchase agreement between the parties, including a purported
right of first refusal to purchase a New Hampshire hospital,
that allegedly are triggered by the Merger. The Foundation
initially sought to enjoin the Merger. However, the parties
reached an agreement that allowed the Merger to proceed, while
preserving the plaintiff’s opportunity to litigate whether
the Merger triggered the right of first refusal to purchase the
hospital and, if so, at what price the hospital could be
repurchased. The court has adopted a procedural schedule for
addressing these issues that includes a trial in June 2007.

General Liability and Other Claims

On April 10, 2006, a class action complaint was filed
against us in the District Court of Kansas alleging, among other
matters, nurse understaffing at all of our hospitals, certain
consumer protection act violations, negligence and unjust
enrichment. The complaint is seeking, among other relief,
declaratory relief and monetary damages, including disgorgement
of profits of $12.25 billion. A motion to dismiss this
action was granted on July 27, 2006, but the plaintiffs
have appealed this dismissal. We believe this lawsuit is without
merit and plan to defend it vigorously.

We are a party to certain proceedings relating to claims for
income taxes and related interest in the United States Tax Court
and the United States Court of Federal Claims. For a description
of those proceedings, see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — IRS Disputes” and Note 6 to our
consolidated financial statements.

We are also subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary
course of business, including claims for personal injuries or
for wrongful restriction of, or interference with,
physicians’ staff privileges. In certain of these actions
the claimants have asked for punitive damages against us, which
may not be covered by insurance. In the opinion of management,
the ultimate resolution of these pending claims and legal
proceedings will not have a material, adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial position.



Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

We held a special meeting of shareholders on November 16,
2006. The following matter was voted upon at the meeting:

Votes in Favor

Votes Against

Abstentions

To adopt the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of
    July 24, 2006, by and among the Company, Hercules
    Holding II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and
    Hercules Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Hercules Holding II, LLC

283,539,958

31,968,124

4,830,055



PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

Our outstanding common stock is privately held, and there is no
established public trading market for our common stock. As of
February 28, 2007, there were 653 holders of our common
stock. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Financing Activities” for a
description of the restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.

In January 2005, our Board of Directors approved an increase in
our quarterly dividend from $0.13 per share to
$0.15 per share. The Board declared the initial
$0.15 per share dividend payable on June 1, 2005 to
shareholders of record at May 1, 2005. In January 2006, our
Board of Directors approved an increase in our quarterly
dividend from $0.15 per share to $0.17 per share. The
Board declared the initial $0.17 per share dividend payable
on June 1, 2006 to shareholders of record at May 1,
2006 and an additional dividend payable September 1, 2006
to shareholders of record on August 1, 2006. We did not pay
a quarterly dividend during the fourth quarter of 2006.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

HCA INC.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31

(Dollars in millions)





Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations

HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

On November 17, 2006, we consummated the Merger with Merger
Sub, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hercules Holding, pursuant to
which Hercules Holding acquired all of our outstanding shares of
common stock for $51.00 per share in cash. The Merger, the
financing transactions related to the Merger and other related
transactions had a transaction value of approximately
$33.0 billion and are collectively referred to in this
annual report as the “Recapitalization.” As a result
of the Recapitalization, our outstanding common stock is owned
by Hercules Holding, certain members of management and other key
employees, and certain other entities. Our common stock is no
longer registered with the SEC and is no longer traded on a
national securities exchange.

The selected financial data and the accompanying consolidated
financial statements present certain information with respect to
the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of
HCA Inc. which should be read in conjunction with the following
discussion and analysis. The terms “HCA,”
“Company,” “we,” “our,” or
“us,” as used herein, refer to HCA Inc. and our
affiliates unless otherwise stated or indicated by context. The
term “affiliates” means direct and indirect
subsidiaries of HCA Inc. and partnerships and joint ventures in
which such subsidiaries are partners.

Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on
Form

10-K

includes
certain disclosures which contain “forward-looking
statements.” Forward-looking statements include all
statements that do not relate solely to historical or current
facts, and can be identified by the use of words like
“may,” “believe,” “will,”
“expect,” “project,” “estimate,”
“anticipate,” “plan,” “initiative”
or “continue.” These forward-looking statements are
based on our current plans and expectations and are subject to a
number of known and unknown uncertainties and risks, many of
which are beyond our control, that could significantly affect
current plans and expectations and our future financial position
and results of operations. These factors include, but are not
limited to, (1) the ability to recognize the benefits of
the Recapitalization and the effect of the Recapitalization on
our customer, employee and other relationships, (2) the
impact of the substantial indebtedness incurred to finance the
Recapitalization, (3) increases in the amount and risk of
collectibility of uninsured accounts and deductibles and
copayment amounts for insured accounts, (4) the ability to
achieve operating and financial targets and achieve expected
levels of patient volumes and control the costs of providing
services, (5) possible changes in the Medicare, Medicaid
and other state programs that may impact reimbursements to
health care providers and insurers, (6) the highly
competitive nature of the health care business, (7) changes
in revenue mix and the ability to enter into and renew managed
care provider agreements on acceptable terms, (8) the
efforts of insurers, health care providers and others to contain
health care costs, (9) the outcome of our continuing
efforts to monitor, maintain and comply with appropriate laws,
regulations, policies and procedures and our corporate integrity
agreement with the government, (10) changes in federal,
state or local regulations affecting the health care industry,
(11) the ability to attract and retain qualified management
and personnel, including affiliated physicians, nurses and
medical support personnel, (12) the outcome of governmental
investigations by the United States Attorney for the Southern
District of New York and the SEC, (13) the outcome of
certain class action and derivative litigation filed with
respect to us, (14) the possible enactment of federal or
state health care reform, (15) the availability and terms
of capital to fund the expansion of our business, (16) the
continuing impact of hurricanes on our facilities and the
ability to obtain recoveries under our insurance policies,
(17) changes in accounting practices, (18) changes in
general economic conditions, (19) future divestitures which
may result in charges, (20) changes in business strategy or
development plans, (21) delays in receiving payments for
services provided, (22) the outcome of pending and any
future tax audits, appeals and litigation associated with our
tax positions, (23) potential liabilities and other claims
that may be asserted against us, and (24) other risk
factors described in this Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

As a
consequence, current plans, anticipated actions and future
financial position and results may differ from those



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

expressed in any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf
of HCA. You are cautioned not to unduly rely on such
forward-looking statements when evaluating the information
presented in this report.

2006 Operations Summary

Net income totaled $1.036 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2006 compared to $1.424 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2005. The 2006 results include
reductions to estimated professional liability reserves of
$136 million, gains on investments of $243 million,
gains on sales of facilities of $205 million, transaction
costs related to the Recapitalization of $442 million and
an impairment of long-lived assets of $24 million. The 2005
results include reductions to estimated professional liability
reserves of $83 million, expenses associated with
hurricanes of $60 million, gains on investments of
$53 million, gains on sales of facilities of
$78 million, a favorable tax settlement of $48 million
and a tax benefit of $24 million related to the
repatriation of foreign earnings.

Revenues increased 4.2% on a consolidated basis and 6.2% on a
same facility basis for the year ended December 31, 2006
compared to the year ended December 31, 2005. The
consolidated revenues increase can be attributed to a 6.8%
increase in revenue per equivalent admission, offsetting a 2.4%
decline in equivalent admissions. The same facility revenues
increase resulted from flat same facility equivalent admissions
and a 6.2% increase in same facility revenue per equivalent
admission.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, same facility
admissions increased 0.2% compared to the year ended
December 31, 2005. Same facility inpatient surgeries
increased 0.7% and same facility outpatient surgeries decreased
1.2% during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to
the year ended December 31, 2005.

For the year ended December 31, 2006, the provision for
doubtful accounts increased to 10.4% of revenues from 9.6% of
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. Same
facility uninsured admissions increased 10.9% and same facility
uninsured emergency room visits increased 6.2% for the year
ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended
December 31, 2005.

Interest expense totaled $955 million for the year ended
December 31, 2006 compared to $655 million for the
year ended December 31, 2005. Interest expense for the
fourth quarter of 2006 was $373 million and represented an
increase of $207 million compared to the fourth quarter of
2005, due primarily to the increased debt related to the
Recapitalization.

Business Strategy

We are committed to providing the communities we serve high
quality, cost-effective health care while complying fully with
our ethics policy, governmental regulations and guidelines and
industry standards. As a part of this strategy, management
focuses on the following principal elements:

Maintain Our Dedication to the Care and Improvement of Human
Life.

Our business is built on putting patients first and
providing high quality health care services in the communities
we serve. Our dedicated professionals oversee our Quality Review
System, which measures clinical outcomes, satisfaction and
regulatory compliance to improve hospital quality and
performance. In addition, we continue to implement advanced
health information technology to improve the quality and
convenience of services to our communities. We are using our
advanced electronic medication administration record, which uses
bar coding technology to ensure that each patient receives the
right medication, to build toward a fully electronic health
record that provides convenient access, electronic order entry
and decision support for physicians. These technologies improve
patient safety, quality and efficiency.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Business Strategy (Continued)

Maintain Our Commitment to Ethics and Compliance.

We are
committed to a corporate culture highlighted by the following
values — compassion, honesty, integrity, fairness,
loyalty, respect and kindness. Our comprehensive ethics and
compliance program reinforces our dedication to these values.

Leverage Our Leading Local Market Positions.

We strive to
maintain and enhance the leading positions that we enjoy in the
majority of our markets. We believe that the broad geographic
presence of our facilities across a range of markets, in
combination with the breadth and quality of services provided by
our facilities, increases our attractiveness to patients and
large employers and positions us to negotiate more favorable
terms from commercial payers and increase the number of payers
with whom we contract. We also intend to strategically enhance
our outpatient presence in our communities to attract more
patients to our facilities.

Expand Our Presence in Key Markets.

We seek to grow our
business in key markets, focusing on large, high growth urban
and suburban communities, primarily in the southern and western
regions of the United States. We seek to strategically invest in
new and expanded services at our existing hospitals and surgery
centers to increase our revenues at those facilities and provide
the benefits of medical technology advances to our communities.
For example, we intend to continue to expand high volume and
high margin specialty services, such as cardiology and
orthopedic services, and increase the capacity, scope and
convenience of our outpatient facilities. To complement this
organic growth, we intend to continue to opportunistically
develop and acquire new hospitals and outpatient facilities.

Continue to Leverage Our Scale.

We will continue to
obtain price efficiencies through our group purchasing
organization and to build on the cost savings and efficiencies
in billing, collection and other processes we have achieved
through our nine regional service centers. We are increasingly
taking advantage of our national scale by contracting for
services on a multistate basis. We will explore the feasibility
of replicating our successful shared services model for
additional clinical and support functions, such as physician
credentialing, medical transcription and electronic medical
recordkeeping, across multiple markets.

Continue to Develop Enduring Physician Relationships.

We
depend on the quality and dedication of the physicians who serve
at our facilities, and we aggressively recruit both primary care
physicians and key specialists to meet community needs and
improve our market position. We strategically recruit physicians
and often assist them in establishing a practice or joining an
existing practice where there is a community need and provide
support to build their practices in compliance with regulatory
standards. We intend to improve both service levels and revenues
in our markets by:

Become the Health Care Employer of Choice.

We will
continue to use a number of industry-leading practices to help
ensure that our hospitals are a health care employer of choice
in their respective communities. Our staffing initiatives for
both care providers and hospital management provide strategies
for recruitment, compensation and productivity to increase
employee retention and operating efficiency at our hospitals.
For example, we maintain an internal contract nursing agency to
supply our hospitals with high



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Business Strategy (Continued)

quality staffing at a lower cost than external agencies. In
addition, we have developed several proprietary training and
career development programs for our physicians and hospital
administrators, including an executive development program
designed to train the next generation of hospital leadership. We
believe that our continued investment in the training and
retention of employees improves the quality of care, enhances
operational efficiency and fosters employee loyalty.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent liabilities and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses. Our estimates are based on historical
experience and various other assumptions that we believe are
reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates on
an ongoing basis and make changes to the estimates and related
disclosures as experience develops or new information becomes
known. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

We believe that the following critical accounting policies
affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the
preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Revenues

Revenues are recorded during the period the health care services
are provided, based upon the estimated amounts due from payers.
Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care health
plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related
contractual agreements. Laws and regulations governing the
Medicare and Medicaid programs are complex and subject to
interpretation. The estimated reimbursement amounts are made on
a payer-specific basis and are recorded based on the best
information available regarding management’s interpretation
of the applicable laws, regulations and contract terms.
Management continually reviews the contractual estimation
process to consider and incorporate updates to laws and
regulations and the frequent changes in managed care contractual
terms that result from contract renegotiations and renewals. We
have invested significant resources to refine and improve our
computerized billing system and the information system data used
to make contractual allowance estimates. We have developed
standardized calculation processes and related training programs
to improve the utility of our patient accounting systems.

The Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
(“EMTALA”) requires any hospital that participates in
the Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening
examination of every person who presents to the hospital’s
emergency room for treatment and, if the individual is suffering
from an emergency medical condition, to either stabilize that
condition or make an appropriate transfer of the individual to a
facility that can handle the condition. The obligation to screen
and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of
an individual’s ability to pay for treatment. Federal and
state laws and regulations, including but not limited to EMTALA,
require, and our commitment to providing quality patient care
encourages, the provision of services to patients who are
financially unable to pay for the health care services they
receive.

We do not pursue collection of amounts related to patients who
meet our guidelines to qualify as charity care; therefore, they
are not reported in revenues. The revenues associated with
uninsured patients who do not meet our guidelines to qualify as
charity care have generally been reported in revenues at gross
charges. Patients treated at our hospitals for nonelective care,
who have income at or below 200% of the federal poverty level,
are eligible for charity care. The federal poverty level is
established by the federal government and is based on income and
family size. On January 1, 2005, we modified our policies
to provide discounts to uninsured patients who do not qualify
for Medicaid or charity care. These discounts are similar to
those provided to many local managed care plans.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (Continued)

Revenues (Continued)

Due to the complexities involved in the classification and
documentation of health care services authorized and provided,
the estimation of revenues earned and the related reimbursement
are often subject to interpretations that could result in
payments that are different from our estimates. A hypothetical
1% change in net receivables that are subject to contractual
discounts at December 31, 2006 would result in an impact on
pretax earnings of approximately $32 million.

Provision for Doubtful Accounts and the Allowance for
    Doubtful Accounts

The collection of outstanding receivables from Medicare, managed
care payers, other third-party payers and patients is our
primary source of cash and is critical to our operating
performance. The primary collection risks relate to uninsured
patient accounts, including patient accounts for which the
primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the
applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts
(deductibles and copayments) remain outstanding. The provision
for doubtful accounts and the allowance for doubtful accounts
relate primarily to amounts due directly from patients. An
estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded for all
uninsured accounts, regardless of the aging of those accounts.
Accounts are written off when all reasonable internal and
external collection efforts have been performed. We consider the
return of an account from the primary external collection agency
to be the culmination of our reasonable collection efforts and
the timing basis for writing off the account balance. Writeoffs
are based upon specific identification and the writeoff process
requires a writeoff adjustment entry to the patient accounting
system. We do not pursue collection of amounts related to
patients that meet our guidelines to qualify as charity care.
Charity care is not reported in revenues and does not have an
impact on the provision for doubtful accounts.

The amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon
management’s assessment of historical writeoffs and
expected net collections, business and economic conditions,
trends in federal, state, and private employer health care
coverage and other collection indicators. Management relies on
the results of detailed reviews of historical writeoffs and
recoveries at facilities that represent a majority of our
revenues and accounts receivable (the “hindsight
analysis”) as a primary source of information in estimating
the collectibility of our accounts receivable. We perform the
hindsight analysis quarterly, utilizing rolling twelve-months
accounts receivable collection and writeoff data. At
December 31, 2006, the allowance for doubtful accounts
represented approximately 86% of the $3.972 billion patient
due accounts receivable balance, including accounts, net of the
related estimated contractual discounts, related to patients for
which eligibility for Medicaid assistance or charity was being
evaluated (“pending Medicaid accounts”). At
December 31, 2005, the allowance for doubtful accounts
represented approximately 85% of the $3.404 billion patient
due accounts receivable balance, including pending Medicaid
accounts, net of the related estimated contractual discounts.
The provision for doubtful accounts was 10.4% of revenues in
2006, 9.6% of revenues in 2005 and 11.4% of revenues in 2004.
Our uninsured discount policy, which became effective
January 1, 2005, resulted in $1.095 billion and
$769 million in discounts to the uninsured being recorded
during 2006 and 2005, respectively. Adjusting for the effect of
the uninsured discounts, the provision for doubtful accounts was
14.1% and 12.4% of revenues for the years ended
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. See
“Supplemental Non-GAAP Disclosures, Operating Measures
Adjusted for the Impact of Discounts for the Uninsured.”
Days revenues in accounts receivable were 53 days,
50 days and 48 days at December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively. Management expects a continuation of the
challenges related to the collection of the patient due
accounts. Adverse changes in the percentage of our patients
having adequate health care coverage, general economic
conditions, patient accounting service center operations, payer
mix, or trends in federal, state, and private employer health
care coverage could affect the collection of accounts
receivable, cash flows and results of operations.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (Continued)

Provision for Doubtful Accounts
and the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts (Continued)

The approximate breakdown of accounts receivable by payer
classification as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 is set
forth in the following table:

Professional Liability Claims

We, along with virtually all health care providers, operate in
an environment with professional liability risks. Prior to 2007,
a substantial portion of our professional liability risks was
insured through a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary. Reserves
for professional liability risks were $1.584 billion and
$1.621 billion at December 31, 2006 and
December 31, 2005, respectively. The current portion of
these reserves, $275 million and $285 million at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, is included in
“other accrued expenses.” Obligations covered by
reinsurance contracts are included in the reserves for
professional liability risks, as the insurance subsidiary
remains liable to the extent reinsurers do not meet their
obligations. Reserves for professional liability risks (net of
$42 million and $43 million receivable under
reinsurance contracts at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively) were $1.542 billion and $1.578 billion
at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Reserves and
provisions for professional liability risks are based upon
actuarially determined estimates. The independent
actuaries’ estimated reserve ranges, net of amounts
receivable under reinsurance contracts, were $1.321 billion
to $1.545 billion at December 31, 2006 and
$1.373 billion to $1.589 billion at December 31,
2005. Reserves for professional liability risks represent the
estimated ultimate cost of all reported and unreported losses
incurred through the respective consolidated balance sheet
dates. The reserves are estimated using individual case-basis
valuations and actuarial analyses. Those estimates are subject
to the effects of trends in loss severity and frequency. The
estimates are continually reviewed and adjustments are recorded
as experience develops or new information becomes known.

The reserves for professional liability risks cover
approximately 3,000 and 3,300 individual claims at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and estimates for
unreported potential claims. The time period required to resolve
these claims can vary depending upon the jurisdiction and
whether the claim is settled or litigated. The estimation of the
timing of payments beyond a year can vary significantly. Changes
to the estimated reserve amounts are included in current
operating results. Due to the considerable variability that is
inherent in such estimates, there can be no assurance that the
ultimate liability will not exceed management’s estimates.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates (Continued)

Professional Liability Claims
(Continued)

Provisions for losses related to professional liability risks
were $217 million, $298 million and $291 million
for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. We recognized reductions in our estimated
professional liability insurance reserves of $136 million,
$83 million and $59 million during 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. These reductions reflect the recognition by
the external actuaries of our improving frequency and severity
claim trends. This improving frequency and moderating severity
can be primarily attributed to tort reforms enacted in key
states, particularly Texas, and our risk management and patient
safety initiatives, particularly in the areas of obstetrics and
emergency services.

Income Taxes

We calculate our provision for income taxes using the asset and
liability method, under which deferred tax assets and
liabilities are recognized by identifying the temporary
differences that arise from the recognition of items in
different periods for tax and accounting purposes. Deferred tax
assets generally represent the tax effects of amounts expensed
in our income statement for which tax deductions will be claimed
in future periods.

Although we believe that we have properly reported taxable
income and paid taxes in accordance with applicable laws,
federal and state taxing authorities may challenge our tax
positions upon audit. To reflect the possibility that our
positions may not ultimately be sustained, we have established,
and when appropriate adjust, provisions for potential adverse
tax outcomes, based on our evaluation of the underlying facts
and circumstances. Final audit results may vary from our
estimates.

Results of Operations

Revenue/ Volume Trends

Our revenues depend upon inpatient occupancy levels, the
ancillary services and therapy programs ordered by physicians
and provided to patients, the volume of outpatient procedures
and the charge and negotiated payment rates for such services.
Gross charges typically do not reflect what our facilities are
actually paid. Our facilities have entered into agreements with
third-party payers, including government programs and managed
care health plans, under which the facilities are paid based
upon the cost of providing services, predetermined rates per
diagnosis, fixed per diem rates or discounts from gross charges.

Revenues increased 4.2% to $25.477 billion for the year
ended December 31, 2006 from $24.455 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2005 and increased 4.1% for the
year ended December 31, 2005 from $23.502 billion for
the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in revenues
in 2006 can be primarily attributed to a 6.8% increase in
revenue per equivalent admission offsetting a 2.4% decline in
equivalent admissions compared to the prior year. Our uninsured
discount policy, which became effective January 1, 2005,
resulted in $1.095 billion and $769 million in discounts to
the uninsured being recorded during 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Adjusting for the effect of the uninsured discounts, revenue per
equivalent admission increased 8.0% in the year ended
December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended
December 31, 2005. See “Supplemental Non-GAAP
Disclosures, Operating Measures Adjusted for the Impact of
Discounts for the Uninsured.” The increase in revenues in
2005 can be primarily attributed to a 0.9% increase in
equivalent admissions and a 3.1% increase in revenue per
equivalent admission compared to the prior year.

Same facility admissions increased 0.2% in 2006 compared to 2005
and increased 0.1% in 2005 compared to 2004. Same facility
inpatient surgeries increased 0.7% and same facility outpatient
surgeries decreased 1.2% during 2006 compared to 2005. Same
facility inpatient surgeries increased 0.9% and same facility
outpatient



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

Revenue/ Volume Trends
(Continued)

surgeries increased 0.3% during 2005 compared to 2004. Same
facility emergency room visits decreased 0.8% during 2006
compared to 2005 and increased 4.8% during 2005 compared to 2004.

Admissions related to Medicare, managed Medicare, Medicaid,
managed Medicaid, managed care and other insurers and the
uninsured for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and
2004 are set forth below.

Years Ended December 31,




Medicare


%


%


%

Managed Medicare


(a

)

(a

)

Medicaid




Managed Medicaid




Managed care and other insurers(a)




Uninsured





%


%


%

(a)

Prior to 2006, managed Medicare admissions were classified as
    managed care.

Same facility uninsured emergency room visits increased 6.2% and
same facility uninsured admissions increased 10.9% during 2006
compared to 2005. Same facility uninsured emergency room visits
increased 11.0% and same facility uninsured admissions increased
9.5% during 2005 compared to 2004. Management cannot predict
whether the current trends in same facility emergency room
visits and same facility uninsured admissions will continue.

Several factors negatively affected patient volumes in 2006 and
2005. Unit closures and changes in Medicare admission guidelines
led to reductions in rehabilitation and skilled nursing
admissions. Cardiac admissions have been affected by competition
from physician-owned heart hospitals and credentialing decisions
made at some of our Florida hospitals. More stringent
enforcement of case management guidelines led to certain patient
services being classified as outpatient observation visits
instead of one-day admissions. To increase patient volumes, we
plan to increase physician recruitment, increase available
medical office building space on or near our campuses, and
continue capital spending devoted to both maintenance of
technology and facilities and growth and expansion programs.

At December 31, 2006, we owned and operated 38 hospitals
and 33 surgery centers in the state of Florida. Our Florida
facilities’ revenues totaled $6.563 billion and
$6.276 billion for the years ended December 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2006, we owned and
operated 35 hospitals and 22 surgery centers in the state of
Texas. Our Texas facilities’ revenues totaled
$6.316 billion and $5.900 billion for the years ended
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

We provided $1.296 billion, $1.138 billion and
$926 million of charity care during the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. On
January 1, 2005, we modified our policies to provide a
discount to uninsured patients who do not qualify for Medicaid
or charity care. These discounts are similar to those provided
to many local managed care plans and totaled $1.095 billion
and $769 million for the years ended December 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

Revenue/ Volume Trends
(Continued)

We receive a significant portion of our revenues from government
health programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid, which are
highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial
changes. Legislative changes have resulted in limitations and
even reductions in levels of payments to health care providers
for certain services under these government programs.

The approximate percentages of our inpatient revenues related to
Medicare, managed Medicare, Medicaid, managed Medicaid, managed
care plans and other insurers and the uninsured for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are set forth below.

Years Ended December 31,




Medicare


%


%


%

Managed Medicare


(a

)

(a

)

Medicaid




Managed Medicaid




Managed care and other insurers(a)




Uninsured(b)





%


%


%



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

Operating Results Summary

The following are comparative summaries of operating results for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (dollars
in millions):



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

Operating Results Summary
(Continued)

Supplemental Non-GAAP Disclosures

Operating Measures Adjusted for the Impact of Discounts for
the Uninsured

(Dollars in millions, except revenue per equivalent
admission)

The results of operations for the year ended December 31,
2006, adjusted for the impact of our uninsured discount policy,
are presented below:

Years Ended December 31, 2006 and 2005

Net income totaled $1.036 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2006 compared to $1.424 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2005. Financial results for 2006
include gains on investments of $243 million, gains on
sales of facilities of $205 million, reductions to
estimated professional liability reserves of $136 million,
expenses related to the Recapitalization of $442 million
and an asset impairment charge of $24 million. Financial
results for 2005 include gains on investments of
$53 million, gains on sales of facilities of
$78 million, reductions to estimated professional liability
reserves of $83 million, an adverse financial



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

Years Ended December 31,
2006 and 2005 (Continued)

impact from hurricanes of $60 million, a tax benefit of
$24 million related to the repatriation of foreign
earnings, and a favorable tax settlement of $48 million
related to the divestitures in 1998 and 2001 of certain noncore
business units.

Revenues increased 4.2% to $25.477 billion for the year
ended December 31, 2006 from $24.455 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in revenues was
due primarily to a 6.8% increase in revenue per equivalent
admission offsetting a 2.4% decline in equivalent admissions
compared to the prior year. Same facility revenues increased
6.2% due to a 6.2% increase in same facility revenue per
equivalent admission and flat same facility equivalent
admissions for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to
the year ended December 31, 2005.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, same facility
admissions increased 0.2%, compared to the year ended
December 31, 2005. Same facility inpatient surgeries
increased 0.7% and same facility outpatient surgeries decreased
1.2% during the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to
the year ended December 31, 2005.

Salaries and benefits, as a percentage of revenues, were 40.9%
in 2006 and 40.6% in 2005. Salaries and benefits per equivalent
admission increased 7.4% in 2006 compared to 2005. Labor rate
increases averaged approximately 5.4% for the year ended
December 31, 2006 compared to 2005.

Supplies, as a percentage of revenues, were 17.0% in 2006 and
16.9% in 2005. Supply costs per equivalent admission increased
7.4% in 2006 compared to 2005. Same facility supply costs
increased 11.0% for medical devices (cardiology and orthopedic)
and 2.6% for pharmacy products.

Other operating expenses, as a percentage of revenues, decreased
to 16.0% in 2006 from 16.5% in 2005. Other operating expenses in
2006 reflect reductions to our estimated professional liability
reserves of $136 million, compared to $83 million in
reductions recorded in 2005. Other operating expenses are
primarily comprised of contract services, professional fees,
repairs and maintenance, rents and leases, utilities, insurance
(including professional liability insurance) and nonincome taxes.

Provision for doubtful accounts, as a percentage of revenues,
increased to 10.4% for the year ended December 31, 2006
from 9.6% in the year ended December 31, 2005. Adjusting
for the effect of the discount policy for the uninsured, the
provision for doubtful accounts, as a percentage of revenues,
was 14.1% in 2006 compared to 12.4% in 2005. The provision for
doubtful accounts and the allowance for doubtful accounts relate
primarily to uninsured amounts due directly from patients. The
increase in the provision for doubtful accounts, as a percentage
of revenues, can be attributed to an increasing amount of
patient financial responsibility under certain managed care
plans and same facility increases in uninsured emergency room
visits of 6.2% and uninsured admissions of 10.9% in 2006
compared to 2005. At December 31, 2006, our allowance for
doubtful accounts represented approximately 86% of the
$3.972 billion total patient due accounts receivable
balance, including accounts, net of estimated contractual
discounts, related to patients for which eligibility for
Medicaid coverage was being evaluated.

Gains on investments for the year ended December 31, 2006
of $243 million relate to sales of investment securities by
our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary. Gains on investments for
the year ended December 31, 2005 were $53 million. Net
unrealized gains on investment securities declined from
$184 million at December 31, 2005 to $25 million
at December 31, 2006. The increase in realized gains and
the decline in unrealized gains were primarily due to the
decision to liquidate our equity investment portfolio and
reinvest in debt and interest-bearing investments.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

Years Ended December 31,
2006 and 2005 (Continued)

Equity in earnings of affiliates decreased from
$221 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 to
$197 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The
decrease was primarily due to decreases in profits at the
Denver, Colorado market joint venture.

Depreciation and amortization decreased, as a percentage of
revenue, to 5.5% in the year ended December 31, 2006 from
5.6% in the year ended December 31, 2005. During 2005, we
incurred additional depreciation expense of approximately
$44 million to correct accumulated depreciation of certain
facilities and assure a consistent application of our accounting
policy relative to certain short-lived medical equipment.

Interest expense increased to $955 million for the year
ended December 31, 2006 from $655 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005. While interest expense increased
$300 million for the year ended December 31, 2006
compared to 2005, $207 million of the increase occurred
during the fourth quarter of 2006 due to the increased debt
related to the Recapitalization. Our average debt balance was
$13.811 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006
compared to $9.828 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2005. The average interest rate for our
long-term debt increased from 7.0% at December 31, 2005 to
7.9% at December 31, 2006.

Gains on sales of facilities were $205 million for the year
ended December 31, 2006 and included a $92 million
gain on the sale of four hospitals in West Virginia and Virginia
and a $93 million gain on the sale of two hospitals in
Florida. Gains on sales were facilities were $78 million
for the year ended December 31, 2005 and included a
$29 million gain related to the recognition of previously
deferred gain on the sale of a group of medical office buildings.

Minority interests in earnings of consolidated entities
increased from $178 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005 to $201 million for the year ended
December 31, 2006. The increase relates primarily to the
operations of surgery centers and other outpatient services
entities.

The effective tax rate was 37.6% for the year ended
December 31, 2006 and 33.8% for the year ended
December 31, 2005. During 2005, the effective tax rate was
reduced due to a favorable tax settlement of $48 million
related to the divestiture of certain noncore business units and
a tax benefit of $24 million from the repatriation of
foreign earnings. Excluding the effect of the combined
$72 million tax benefit, the effective tax rate for the
year ended December 31, 2005 would have been 37.1%.

Years Ended December 31, 2005 and 2004

Net income increased 14.2%, from $1.246 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2004 to $1.424 billion for the
year ended December 31, 2005. Financial results for 2005
include gains on investments of $53 million, gains on sales
of facilities of $78 million, reductions to estimated
professional liability reserves of $83 million, an adverse
financial impact from hurricanes of $60 million, a tax
benefit of $24 million related to the repatriation of
foreign earnings, and a favorable tax settlement of
$48 million related to the divestures in 1998 and 2001 of
certain noncore business units. The 2004 results include gains
on investments of $56 million, a favorable change in the
estimated provision for doubtful accounts totaling
$46 million based upon refinements to our allowance for
doubtful accounts estimation process, a $59 million
reduction to estimated professional liability reserves, an
adverse financial impact from hurricanes of $40 million,
and an impairment of long-lived assets of $12 million.

Revenues increased 4.1% to $24.455 billion for the year
ended December 31, 2005 compared to $23.502 billion
for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in
revenues was due to a 0.9% increase in



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

Years Ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 (Continued)

equivalent admissions and 3.1% increase in revenue per
equivalent admission. Adjusting for the effect of the uninsured
discount policy, revenues increased 7.3% for the year ended
December 31, 2005 compared to 2004. For the year ended
December 31, 2005, admissions decreased 0.7% and same
facility admissions increased by 0.1% compared to 2004.
Outpatient surgical volumes increased 0.2% and increased 0.3% on
a same facility basis in 2005 compared to 2004.

Salaries and benefits, as a percentage of revenues, were 40.6%
in 2005 and 40.1% in 2004. Adjusting for the effect of the
uninsured discount policy, salaries and benefits were 39.4% of
revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005. Labor rate
increases averaged approximately 4.2% for the year ended
December 31, 2005.

Supply costs increased, as a percentage of revenues, to 16.9%
for the year ended December 31, 2005 from 16.6% for the
year ended December 31, 2004. Adjusting for the effect of
the uninsured discount policy, supplies were 16.4% of revenues
for the year ended December 31, 2005. During 2005, general
supply cost trends included a more stable pricing environment
for medical devices and pharmacy items and a stabilization in
usage rates for drug-eluting stents.

Other operating expenses (primarily consisting of contract
services, professional fees, repairs and maintenance, rents and
leases, utilities, insurance and nonincome taxes), as a
percentage of revenues, increased to 16.5% in 2005 from 16.0% in
2004. Adjusting for the effect of the uninsured discount policy,
other operating expenses were 15.9% of revenues for the year
ended December 31, 2005.

The provision for doubtful accounts, as a percentage of
revenues, declined to 9.6% for the year ended December 31,
2005 from 11.4% for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Adjusting for the effect of the uninsured discount policy, the
provision for doubtful accounts was 12.4% of revenues in the
year ended December 31, 2005. The provision for doubtful
accounts and the allowance for doubtful accounts relate
primarily to uninsured amounts due directly from patients. The
increase in the provision for doubtful accounts (adjusted for
uninsured discounts), as a percentage of revenues, related to an
increasing amount of patient financial responsibility under
certain managed care plans, increases in uninsured emergency
room visits of 9.9% and increases in uninsured admissions of
8.9% in 2005 compared to 2004. At December 31, 2005, the
allowance for doubtful accounts represented approximately 85% of
the $3.404 billion total patient due accounts receivable
balance, including accounts, net of estimated contractual
discounts, related to patients for which eligibility for
Medicaid coverage was being evaluated.

Gains on investments for the year ended December 31, 2005
of $53 million consist primarily of net gains on investment
securities held by our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary. Gains
on investments for the year ended December 31, 2004 were
$56 million. At December 31, 2005, we had net
unrealized gains of $184 million on the insurance
subsidiary’s investment securities.

Equity in earnings of affiliates increased to $221 million
for the year ended December 31, 2005 compared to
$194 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The
increase was primarily due to an increase in profits at the
Denver, Colorado market joint venture.

Depreciation and amortization increased, as a percentage of
revenues, to 5.6% in the year ended December 31, 2005 from
5.3% in the year ended December 31, 2004. A portion of the
increase is the result of additional depreciation expense of
approximately $44 million recorded during 2005 to correct
accumulated depreciation at certain facilities and assure a
consistent application of our accounting policy relative to
certain short-lived medical equipment.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Results of Operations (Continued)

Years Ended December 31,
2005 and 2004 (Continued)

Interest expense increased to $655 million for the year
ended December 31, 2005 from $563 million for the year
ended December 31, 2004. The average debt balance was
$9.828 billion for the year ended December 31, 2005
compared to $8.853 billion for the year ended
December 31, 2004. The average interest rate for our
long-term debt increased from 6.5% at December 31, 2004 to
7.0% at December 31, 2005.

During 2004, we closed San Jose Medical Center in
San Jose, California, resulting in a pretax asset
impairment charge of $12 million ($8 million
after-tax).

Minority interests in earnings of consolidated entities
increased to $178 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005 compared to $168 million for the
year ended December 31, 2004.

The effective tax rate was 33.8% for the year ended
December 31, 2005 and 36.8% for the year ended
December 31, 2004. During 2005, the effective tax rate was
reduced due to a favorable tax settlement of $48 million
related to the divestures of certain noncore business units in
1998 and 2001 and a tax benefit of $24 million related to
the repatriation of foreign earnings. Excluding the effect of
the combined $72 million of tax benefits, the effective tax
rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 would have been
37.1%.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash provided by operating activities totaled
$1.845 billion in 2006 compared to $2.971 billion in
2005 and $2.954 billion in 2004. Working capital totaled
$2.502 billion at December 31, 2006 and
$1.320 billion at December 31, 2005. Cash flows
provided by operating activities include income tax benefits
related to the exercise of employee stock awards of
$163 million and $50 million for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. For the year
ended December 31, 2006, income tax benefits related to the
exercise of employee stock awards of $97 million were
included in financing activities. The lower cash provided by
operating activities in 2006 when compared to both 2005 and 2004
relates, primarily, to increases in income tax payments, net of
refunds, of $524 million for 2006 compared to 2005 and
$693 million for 2006 compared to 2004, and increases in
accounts receivable, net of the provision for doubtful accounts,
of $92 million for 2006 compared to 2005 and
$404 million for 2006 compared to 2004.

Cash used in investing activities was $1.307 billion,
$1.681 billion and $1.688 billion in 2006, 2005 and
2004, respectively. Excluding acquisitions, capital expenditures
were $1.865 billion in 2006, $1.592 billion in 2005
and $1.513 billion in 2004. We expended $112 million,
$126 million and $44 million for acquisitions of
hospitals and health care entities during 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. During 2006, acquisitions included three hospitals
and outpatient and ancillary services entities. During 2005 and
2004, the acquisitions were generally comprised of outpatient
and ancillary services entities. Capital expenditures in all
three years were funded by a combination of cash flows from
operations and the issuance of debt. Planned capital
expenditures are expected to approximate $1.8 billion in
2007. At December 31, 2006, there were projects under
construction which had an estimated additional cost to complete
and equip over the next five years of $1.9 billion. We
expect to finance capital expenditures with internally generated
and borrowed funds.

The sales of nine hospitals were completed during 2006, and we
received cash proceeds of $560 million. We also received
proceeds of $91 million on the sales of real estate
investments and our equity investment in a hospital joint
venture. The sales of five hospitals were completed during 2005
and we received cash proceeds of $260 million.

Cash used in financing activities totaled $240 million in
2006, $1.212 billion in 2005 and $1.347 billion in
2004. The Recapitalization included the issuance of
$19.964 billion of long-term debt, the receipt of



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Liquidity and Capital Resources (Continued)

$3.782 billion of equity contributions, the repurchase of
$20.364 billion of common stock, the payment of
$745 million related to Recapitalization related fees and
expenses, and the retirement of $3.182 billion of existing
long-term debt.

During 2006, we repurchased 13.1 million shares (excluding
the Recapitalization) of our common stock for a total of
$653 million. During 2005, we repurchased 36.7 million
shares of our common stock for a total cost of
$1.856 billion. During 2004, we repurchased
77.4 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of
$3.109 billion. During 2005, we received cash inflows of
$943 million related to the exercise of employee stock
options.

In addition to cash flows from operations, available sources of
capital include amounts available under our senior secured
credit facilities ($1.8 billion as of December 31,
2006 and $2.5 billion as of February 28, 2007) and
anticipated access to public and private debt markets.

Investments of our professional liability insurance subsidiary,
to maintain statutory equity and pay claims, totaled
$2.143 billion and $2.384 billion at December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively. Claims payments, net of reinsurance
recoveries, during the next twelve months are expected to
approximate $250 million. Our wholly-owned insurance
subsidiary has entered into certain reinsurance contracts, and
the obligations covered by the reinsurance contracts are
included in the reserves for professional liability risks, as
the subsidiary remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers
do not meet their obligations under the reinsurance contracts.
To minimize our exposure to losses from reinsurer insolvencies,
we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and
monitor concentrations of credit risk arising from similar
activities or economic characteristics of the reinsurers. The
amounts receivable related to the reinsurance contracts were
$42 million and $43 million at December 31, 2006
and 2005, respectively.

Financing Activities

Due to the Recapitalization, we are a highly leveraged company
with significant debt service requirements. Our debt totaled
$28.408 billion at December 31, 2006 and represented a
$17.933 billion increase from the total debt of
$10.475 billion at December 31, 2005. We expect our
interest expense to increase from $955 million for the year
ended December 31, 2006 to approximately $2.3 billion
in 2007.

In connection with the Recapitalization, we entered into
(i) a $2.0 billion senior secured asset-based
revolving loan agreement with a borrowing base of 85% of
eligible accounts receivable with customary reserves and
eligibility criteria ($4 million available at
December 31, 2006) and (ii) a new senior secured
credit agreement, consisting of a $2.0 billion revolving
credit facility ($1.826 billion available at
December 31, 2006 after giving effect to certain
outstanding letters of credit), a $2.75 billion term
loan A, a $8.8 billion term loan B and a

€

1.0 billion
term loan ($1.320 billion at December 31, 2006).
Obligations under the senior secured credit facilities are
guaranteed by all material, unrestricted wholly-owned
U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, borrowings under the

€

1.0 billion
term loan are guaranteed by all material, wholly-owned European
subsidiaries.

Also in connection with the Recapitalization, we issued
$4.2 billion of senior secured notes (comprised of
$1.0 billion of


/


% notes
due 2014 and $3.2 billion of


/


% notes
due 2016) and $1.5 billion of


/


% senior
secured toggle notes (which allow us, at our option, to pay
interest in-kind during the first five years) due 2016, which
are subject to certain standard covenants. The notes are
guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries.

Proceeds from the senior secured credit facilities and the
senior secured notes were used in connection with the closing of
the Recapitalization and to repay the amounts owed under our
previous bank credit agreements. In connection with the
Recapitalization, we also tendered for all amounts outstanding
under the



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Liquidity and Capital Resources (Continued)

Financing Activities
(Continued)

8.85% notes due 2007, the 7.00% notes due 2007, the
7.25% notes due 2008, the 5.25% notes due 2008 and the
5.50% notes due 2009 (collectively, the “Short term
Notes”). Approximately 97% of the $1.365 billion total
outstanding amount under the Short term Notes was repurchased
pursuant to the tender.

In 2006, we issued $1.0 billion of 6.5% notes due
2016. Proceeds of $625 million were used to refinance the
remaining amount outstanding under the 2005 term loan and the
remaining proceeds were used to pay down amounts advanced under
a bank revolving credit facility.

In 2005, in connection with our modified “Dutch”
auction tender offer, we entered into the 2005 term loan with
several banks, which had a maturity of May 2006. Under this
agreement, we borrowed $800 million. Proceeds from the 2005
term loan were used to partially fund the repurchase of our
common stock. The proceeds of $175 million from the sales
of hospitals in 2005 were used to repay a portion of the amounts
outstanding under the 2005 term loan.

Management believes that cash flows from operations, amounts
available under our senior secured credit facilities and our
anticipated access to public and private debt markets will be
sufficient to meet expected liquidity needs during the next
twelve months.

Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of December 31, 2006, maturities of contractual
obligations and other commercial commitments are presented in
the table below (dollars in millions):

Payments Due by Period

Contractual Obligations(a)

Total

Current

2-3 Years

4-5 Years

After 5 Years

Long-term debt including interest, excluding the senior secured
    credit facilities(b)

$

25,272

$

1,197

$

2,370

$

3,745

$

17,960

Loans outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities,
    including interest(b)

22,535

1,390

2,892

3,235

15,018

Operating leases(c)

1,287





Purchase and other obligations(c)





—

Total contractual obligations

$

49,121

$

2,840

$

5,615

$

7,184

$

33,482

Commitment Expiration by Period

Other Commercial Commitments

Not Recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet

Total

Current

2-3 Years

4-5 Years

After 5 Years

Letters of credit(d)

$


$


$

—

$

—

$


Surety bonds(e)




—

—

Physician commitments(f)





—

Guarantees(g)


—

—

—


Total commercial commitments

$


$


$


$


$


(a)

We have not included obligations to pay estimated professional
    liability claims ($1.584 billion at December 31, 2006)
    in this table. The estimated professional liability claims are
    expected to be funded by the designated investment securities
    that are restricted for this purpose ($2.143 billion at
    December 31, 2006).



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Market Risk

We are exposed to market risk related to changes in market
values of securities. The investments in debt and equity
securities of our wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were
$2.129 billion and $14 million, respectively, at
December 31, 2006. These investments are carried at fair
value, with changes in unrealized gains and losses being
recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income. The fair
value of investments is generally based on quoted market prices.
At December 31, 2006, we had a net unrealized gain of
$25 million on the insurance subsidiary’s investment
securities.

We are also exposed to market risk related to changes in
interest rates and we periodically enter into interest rate swap
agreements to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. Our
interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and
variable rate interest payments between two parties, based on
common notional principal amounts and maturity dates. The
notional amounts of the swap agreements represent balances used
to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets
or liabilities. Our credit risk related to these agreements is
considered low because the swap agreements are with creditworthy
financial institutions. The interest payments under these
agreements are settled on a net basis. These derivatives have
been recognized in the financial statements at their respective
fair values.

With respect to our interest-bearing liabilities, approximately
$6.746 billion of long-term debt at December 31, 2006
is subject to variable rates of interest, while the remaining
balance in long-term debt of $21.662 billion at
December 31, 2006 is subject to fixed rates of interest.
Both the general level of interest rates and, for the senior
secured credit facilities, our leverage affect our variable
interest rates. Our variable debt is comprised primarily of
amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit facilities.
Borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities bear
interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus, at our
option, either (a) a base rate determined by reference to
the higher of (1) the federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1% and
(2) the prime rate of Bank of America or (b) a LIBOR
rate for the currency of such borrowing for the relevant
interest period. The applicable margin for borrowings under the
senior secured credit facilities, with the exception of term
loan B where the margin is static, may be reduced subject
to attaining certain leverage ratios.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

Market Risk (Continued)

Due primarily to the lowering of our credit ratings in
connection with the Recapitalization, the average rate for our
long-term debt increased from 7.0% at December 31, 2005 to
7.9% at December 31, 2006. The estimated fair value of our
total long-term debt was $28.096 billion at
December 31, 2006. The estimates of fair value are based
upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar issues of
long-term debt with the same maturities. Based on a hypothetical
1% increase in interest rates, the potential annualized
reduction to future pretax earnings would be approximately
$67 million. To mitigate the impact of fluctuations in
interest rates, we generally target a portion of our debt
portfolio to be maintained at fixed rates.

Our international operations and the

€

1.0 billion
term loan expose us to market risks associated with foreign
currencies. In order to mitigate the currency exposure related
to the

€

1.0
billion term loan, in November 2006 we entered into certain
cross currency swap agreements. A cross currency swap is an
agreement between two parties to exchange a stream of principal
and interest payments in one currency for a stream of principal
and interest payments in another currency over a specified
period.

Financial Instruments

Derivative financial instruments are employed to manage risks,
including foreign currency and interest rate exposures, and are
not used for trading or speculative purposes. We recognize
derivative instruments, such as interest rate swap agreements
and foreign exchange contracts, in the consolidated balance
sheets at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives
are recognized periodically either in earnings or in
stockholders’ equity, as a component of other comprehensive
income, depending on whether the derivative financial instrument
qualifies for hedge accounting, and if so, whether it qualifies
as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. Gains and losses on
derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, to the extent they
are effective, are recorded in other comprehensive income, and
subsequently reclassified to earnings to offset the impact of
the hedged items when they occur.

Changes in the value of financial instruments denominated in
foreign currencies used as hedges of the net investment in
foreign operations are reported in other comprehensive income.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives not qualifying as
hedges, and for any portion of a hedge that is ineffective, are
reported in earnings.

The net interest paid or received on interest rate swaps is
recognized as interest expense. Gains and losses resulting from
the early termination of interest rate swap agreements are
deferred and amortized as adjustments to expense over the
remaining period of the debt originally covered by the
terminated swap.

Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices

Various federal, state and local laws have been enacted that, in
certain cases, limit our ability to increase prices. Revenues
for general, acute care hospital services rendered to Medicare
patients are established under the federal government’s
prospective payment system. Total Medicare revenues approximated
26% in 2006, 27% in 2005 and 28% in 2004 of our total patient
revenues.

Management believes that hospital industry operating margins
have been, and may continue to be, under significant pressure
because of changes in payer mix and growth in operating expenses
in excess of the increase in prospective payments under the
Medicare program. In addition, as a result of increasing
regulatory and competitive pressures, our ability to maintain
operating margins through price increases to non-Medicare
patients is limited.



HCA INC.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS — (Continued)

IRS Disputes

HCA is currently contesting before the Appeals Division of the
Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), the United
States Tax Court (the “Tax Court”), and the United
States Court of Federal Claims, certain claimed deficiencies and
adjustments proposed by the IRS in conjunction with its
examinations of HCA’s 1994 through 2002 federal income tax
returns, Columbia Healthcare Corporation’s
(“CHC”) 1993 and 1994 federal income tax returns,
HCA-Hospital Corporation of America’s (“Hospital
Corporation of America”) 1991 through 1993 federal income
tax returns and Healthtrust, Inc. — The Hospital
Company’s (“Healthtrust”) 1990 through 1994
federal income tax returns.

During 2003, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit affirmed a Tax Court decision received in 1996 related
to the IRS examination of Hospital Corporation of America’s
1987 through 1988 Federal income tax returns, in which the IRS
contested the method that Hospital Corporation of America used
to calculate its tax allowance for doubtful accounts. HCA filed
a petition for review by the United States Supreme Court, which
was denied in October 2004. Due to the volume and complexity of
calculating the tax allowance for doubtful accounts, the IRS has
not determined the amount of additional tax and interest that it
may claim for taxable years after 1988. In December 2004, HCA
made a deposit of $109 million for additional tax and
interest, based on its estimate of amounts due for taxable
periods through 1998.

Other disputed items include the deductibility of a portion of
the 2001 government settlement payment, the timing of
recognition of certain patient service revenues in 2000 through
2002, the method for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful
accounts in 2002, and the amount of insurance expense deducted
in 1999 through 2002. The IRS has claimed an additional
$678 million in income taxes, interest and penalties
through December 31, 2006 with respect to these issues.
This amount is net of a refundable tax deposit of
$177 million, and related interest, we made during 2006.

During February 2006, the IRS began an examination of HCA’s
2003 through 2004 federal income tax returns. The IRS has not
determined the amount of any additional income tax, interest and
penalties that it may claim upon completion of this examination.

Management believes that adequate provisions have been recorded
to satisfy final resolution of the disputed issues. Management
believes that HCA, CHC, Hospital Corporation of America and
Healthtrust properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in
accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with
the IRS during previous examinations and that final resolution
of these disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on
the results of operations or financial position.



Item  7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
    Risk

The information called for by this item is provided under the
caption “Market Risk” under Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.”

Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Information with respect to this Item is contained in our
consolidated financial statements indicated in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements on Page F-1 of this Annual
Report on
Form

10-K.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

1.

Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls
    and Procedures

Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of our
disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined
under
Rule

13a-15(e)

promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the “Exchange Act”). Based on this
evaluation, our principal executive officer and our principal
financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and
procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by
this annual report.

2.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

(a) Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting, as such
term is defined in Exchange Act
Rule

13a-15(f).

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can
provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial
statement preparation and presentation.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our principal executive officer and
principal financial officer, we conducted an assessment of the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
based on the framework in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our
assessment under the framework in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework, our management concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2006.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2006 has been audited by Ernst &
Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm.
Ernst & Young’s attestation report is included
herein.



(b) Attestation Report of the Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

HCA Inc.

We have audited management’s assessment, included in the
accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over
Financial Reporting, that HCA Inc. maintained effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006,
based on criteria established in Internal Control —
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).
HCA Inc.’s management is responsible for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion
on management’s assessment and an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, evaluating
management’s assessment, testing and evaluating the design
and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing
such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, management’s assessment that HCA Inc.
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, HCA
Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006,
based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of HCA Inc. as of December 31,
2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of
income, stockholders’ (deficit) equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2006, and our report dated March 22, 2007
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Nashville, Tennessee

March 22, 2007

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance

As of February 28, 2007, our directors were as follows:

As of February 28, 2007, our executive officers (other than
Messrs. Bovender and Bracken who are listed above) were as
follows:



Our Board of Directors consists of thirteen directors, who were
elected upon consummation of the Merger and are each managers of
Hercules Holding. The Amended and Restated Limited Liability
Company Agreement of Hercules Holding requires that the members
of Hercules Holding take all necessary action to ensure that the
persons who serve as managers of Hercules Holding also serve on
the Board of Directors of HCA. See “Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions.” In addition,
Messrs. Bovender’s and Bracken’s employment
agreements provide that they will continue to serve as members
of our Board of Directors so long as they remain officers of
HCA, with Mr. Bovender to serve as the Chairman. Because of
these requirements, together with Hercules Holding’s
ownership of approximately 97.5% of our outstanding common
stock, we do not currently have a policy or procedures with
respect to shareholder recommendations for nominees to the Board
of Directors.

Christopher J. Birosak

is a Managing Director in the
Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity Division which he joined in
2004. Prior to joining the Global Private Equity Division,
Mr. Birosak worked in various capacities in the Merrill
Lynch Leveraged Finance Group with particular emphasis on
leveraged buyouts and mergers and acquisitions related
financings. Mr. Birosak also serves on the board of
directors of the Atrium Companies, Inc. and NPC International.
Mr. Birosak joined Merrill Lynch in 1994.

George A. Bitar

is a Managing Director in the Merrill
Lynch Global Private Equity Division where he serves as Co-Head
of the U.S. Region, and a Managing Director in Merrill
Lynch Global Partners, Inc., the Manager of ML Global Private
Equity Fund, L.P., a proprietary private equity fund.
Mr. Bitar serves on the Board of Hertz Global Holdings,
Inc., The Hertz Corporation, Advantage Sales and Marketing, Inc.
and Aeolus Re Ltd.

Jack O. Bovender, Jr.

has served as our Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer since January 2002. Mr. Bovender
served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company
from January 2001 to December 2001. From August 1997 to January
2001, Mr. Bovender served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of the Company. From April 1994 to August 1997, he was
retired. Prior to his retirement, Mr. Bovender served as
Chief Operating Officer of HCA-Hospital Corporation of America
from 1992 until 1994. Prior to 1992, Mr. Bovender held
several senior level positions with HCA-Hospital Corporation of
America.

Richard M. Bracken

was appointed President and Chief
Operating Officer in January 2002; he was appointed Chief
Operating Officer in July 2001. Mr. Bracken served as
President — Western Group of the Company from August
1997 until July 2001. From January 1995 to August 1997,
Mr. Bracken served as President of the Pacific Division of
the Company. Prior to 1995, Mr. Bracken served in various
hospital Chief Executive Officer and Administrator positions
with HCA-Hospital Corporation of America.

John P. Connaughton

has been a Managing Director of Bain
Capital Partners, LLC since 1997 and a member of the firm since
1989. He has played a leading role in transactions in the
medical, technology and media industries. Prior to joining Bain
Capital, Mr. Connaughton was a consultant at
Bain & Company, Inc., where he advised Fortune
500 companies. Mr. Connaughton currently serves as a
director of
M

|

C Communications
(PriMed), Warner Chilcott Corporation, Epoch Senior Living, CRC
Health Corporation, AMC Entertainment Inc. (formerly Loews
Cineplex Entertainment LCE Holdings, Inc.), Warner Music
Group, ProSiebenSat.1.Media AG, SunGard Data Systems, Cumulus
Media Partners and The Boston Celtics.

Thomas F. Frist, Jr., M.D.

served as an
executive officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors from
January 2001 to January 2002. From July 1997 to January 2001,
Dr. Frist served as our Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer. Dr. Frist served as Vice Chairman of the Board of
Directors from April 1995 to July 1997 and as Chairman from
February 1994 to April 1995. He was Chairman, Chief Executive
Officer and President of HCA-Hospital Corporation of America
from 1988 to February 1994. Dr. Frist is the father of
Thomas F. Frist III, who also serves as a director.

Thomas F. Frist III

is a principal of Frist Capital
LLC, a private investment vehicle for Mr. Frist and certain
related persons and has held such position since 1998.
Mr. Frist is also a general partner at Frisco Partners,
another Frist family investment vehicle. Mr. Frist is the
son of Thomas F. Frist, Jr., M.D., who also serves as
a director.



Christopher R. Gordon

is a principal of Bain Capital and
joined the firm in 1997. Prior to joining Bain Capital,
Mr. Gordon was a consultant at Bain & Company.
Mr. Gordon currently serves as a director of CRC Health
Corporation.

Michael W. Michelson

has been a member of the limited
liability company which serves as the general partner of
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. since 1996. Prior to
that, he was a general partner of Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. L.P. Mr. Michelson is also a
director of Accellent, Inc., Alliance Imaging, Inc. and Jazz
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

James C. Momtazee

has been an executive of Kohlberg
Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P. since 1996. From 1994 to
1996, Mr. Momtazee was with Donaldson, Lufkin &
Jenrette in its investment banking department. Mr. Momtazee
is also a director of Accellent, Inc., Alliance Imaging, Inc.
and Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Stephen G. Pagliuca

has been a Managing Director of Bain
Capital Partners, LLC since 1989, when he founded the
Information Partners private equity fund for Bain Capital.
Mr. Pagliuca currently serves as a director of Burger King
Corporation, Gartner, Inc., ProSieben.Sat1 Media AG, Warner
Chilcott Corporation and The Boston Celtics.

Peter M. Stavros

joined Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co. L.P. as a Principal in 2005. Prior to
joining Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P.,
Mr. Stavros was a Vice President with GTCR Golder Rauner
and an Associate at Vestar Capital Partners.

Nathan C. Thorne

is a Senior Vice President of Merrill
Lynch & Co., Inc. and President of Merrill Lynch Global
Private Equity. Mr. Thorne joined Merrill Lynch in 1984.

R. Milton Johnson

has served as Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since July
2004. Mr. Johnson served as Senior Vice President and
Controller of the Company from July 1999 until July 2004.
Mr. Johnson served as Vice President and Controller of the
Company from November 1998 to July 1999. Prior to that time,
Mr. Johnson served as Vice President — Tax of the
Company from April 1995 to October 1998. Prior to that time,
Mr. Johnson served as Director of Tax for Healthtrust from
September 1987 to April 1995.

David G. Anderson

has served as Senior Vice
President — Finance and Treasurer of the Company since
July 1999. Mr. Anderson served as Vice
President — Finance of the Company from September 1993
to July 1999 and was elected to the additional position of
Treasurer in November 1996. From March 1993 until September
1993, Mr. Anderson served as Vice President —
Finance and Treasurer of Galen Health Care, Inc. From July 1988
to March 1993, Mr. Anderson served as Vice
President — Finance and Treasurer of Humana Inc.

Victor L. Campbell

has served as Senior Vice President of
the Company since February 1994. Prior to that time,
Mr. Campbell served as HCA-Hospital Corporation of
America’s Vice President for Investor, Corporate and
Government Relations. Mr. Campbell joined HCA-Hospital
Corporation of America in 1972. Mr. Campbell serves on the
Board of HRET, a subsidiary of the American Hospital
Association, and on the Board of the Federation of American
Hospitals, where he serves on the Executive Committee.

Rosalyn S. Elton

has served as Senior Vice
President — Operations Finance of the Company since
July 1999. Ms. Elton served as Vice President —
Operations Finance of the Company from August 1993 to July 1999.
From October 1990 to August 1993, Ms. Elton served as Vice
President — Financial Planning and Treasury for the
Company.

V. Carl George

has served as Senior Vice
President — Development of the Company since July
1999. Mr. George served as Vice President —
Development of the Company from April 1995 to July 1999. From
September 1987 to April 1995, Mr. George served as Director
of Development for Healthtrust. Prior to working for
Healthtrust, Mr. George served with HCA-Hospital
Corporation of America in various positions.

Charles J. Hall

was appointed President —
Eastern Group of the Company in October 2006. Prior to that
time, Mr. Hall had served as President — North
Florida Division since April 2003. Mr. Hall had previously
served the Company as President of the East Florida Division
from January 1999 until April 2003, as a Market



President in the East Florida Division from January 1998 until
December 1998, as President of the South Florida Division from
February 1996 until December 1997, and as President of the
Southwest Florida Division from October 1994 until February
1996, and in various other capacities since 1987.

R. Sam Hankins, Jr.

was appointed Chief
Financial Officer — Outpatient Services Group in May
2004. Mr. Hankins served as Chief Financial
Officer — West Florida Division from January 1998
until May 2004. Prior to that time, Mr. Hankins served as
Chief Financial Officer — Northeast Division from
March 1997 until December 1997, and as Chief Financial
Officer — Richmond Division from March 1996 until
February 1997. Prior to that time, Mr. Hankins served in
various positions with CJW Medical Center in Richmond, Virginia
and with several hospitals.

Russell K. Harms

was appointed Chief Financial
Officer — Central Group in October 2005. From January
2001 to October 2005, Mr. Harms served as Chief Financial
Officer of HCA’s MidAmerica Division. From December 1997 to
December 2000, Mr. Harms served as Chief Financial Officer
of Presbyterian/ St. Lukes Medical Center.

Samuel N. Hazen

was appointed President —
Western Group of the Company in July 2001. Mr. Hazen served
as Chief Financial Officer — Western Group of the
Company from August 1995 to July 2001. Mr. Hazen served as
Chief Financial Officer — North Texas Division of the
Company from February 1994 to July 1995. Prior to that time,
Mr. Hazen served in various hospital and regional Chief
Financial Officer positions with Humana Inc. and Galen Health
Care, Inc.

Patricia T. Lindler

has served as Senior Vice
President — Government Programs of the Company since
July 1999. Ms. Lindler served as Vice President —
Reimbursement of the Company from September 1998 to July 1999.
Prior to that time, Ms. Lindler was the President of Health
Financial Directions, Inc. from March 1995 to November 1998.
From September 1980 to February 1995, Ms. Lindler served as
Director of Reimbursement of the Company’s Florida Group.

A. Bruce Moore, Jr.

was appointed
President — Outpatient Services Group in January 2006.
Mr. Moore had served as Senior Vice President and as Chief
Operating Officer — Outpatient Services Group since
July 2004 and as Senior Vice President — Operations
Administration from July 1999 until July 2004. Mr. Moore
served as Vice President — Operations Administration
of the Company from September 1997 to July 1999, as Vice
President — Benefits from October 1996 to September
1997, and as Vice President — Compensation from March
1995 until October 1996.

Dr. Jonathan B. Perlin

was appointed Chief Medical
Officer and Senior Vice President — Quality of the
Company in August 2006. Prior to joining the Company,
Dr. Perlin had served as Undersecretary of Health in the
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs since April 2004.
Dr. Perlin joined the Veterans Health Administration in
November 1999 where he served in various capacities, including
as Deputy Undersecretary of Health from July 2002 to April 2004,
and as Chief Quality and Performance Officer from November 1999
to September 2002.

W. Paul Rutledge

was appointed as
President — Central Group in October 2005.
Mr. Rutledge had served as President of the MidAmerica
Division since January 2001. He served as President of TriStar
Health System from June 1996 to January 2001 and served as
president of Centennial Medical Center from May 1993 to June
1996. He has served in leadership capacities with HCA for more
than 20 years, working with hospitals in the Southeast.

Richard J. Shallcross

was appointed Chief Financial
Officer — Western Group of the Company in August 2001.
Mr. Shallcross served as Chief Financial
Officer — Continental Division of the Company from
September 1997 to August 2001. From October 1996 to August 1997,
Mr. Shallcross served as Chief Financial
Officer — Utah/Idaho Division of the Company. From
November 1995 until September 1996, Mr. Shallcross served
as Vice President of Finance and Managed Care for the Colorado
Division of the Company.

Joseph N. Steakley

has served as Senior Vice
President — Internal Audit Services of the Company
since July 1999. Mr. Steakley served as Vice
President — Internal Audit Services from November 1997
to July



1999. From October 1989 until October 1997, Mr. Steakley
was a partner with Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Steakley
is a member of the board of directors of J. Alexander’s
Corporation, where he serves on the compensation committee and
as chairman of the audit committee.

John M. Steele

has served as Senior Vice
President — Human Resources of the Company since
November 2003. Mr. Steele served as Vice
President — Compensation and Recruitment of the
Company from November 1997 to October 2003. From March 1995 to
November 1997, Mr. Steele served as Assistant Vice
President — Recruitment.

Donald W. Stinnett

was appointed Chief Financial
Officer — Eastern Group in October 2005.
Mr. Stinnett had served as Chief Financial Officer of the
Far West Division since July 1999. Mr. Stinnett served as
Chief Financial Officer and Vice President of Finance of
Franciscan Health System of the Ohio Valley from 1995 until
1999, and served in various capacities with Franciscan Health
System of Cincinnati and Providence Hospital in Cincinnati prior
to that time.

Beverly B. Wallace

was appointed President —
Shared Services Group in March 2006. From January 2003 until
March 2006, Ms. Wallace served as President —
Financial Services Group. Ms. Wallace served as Senior Vice
President — Revenue Cycle Operations Management of the
Company from July 1999 to January 2003. Ms. Wallace served
as Vice President — Managed Care of the Company from
July 1998 to July 1999. From 1997 to 1998, Ms. Wallace
served as President — Homecare Division of the
Company. From 1996 to 1997, Ms. Wallace served as Chief
Financial Officer — Nashville Division of the Company.
From 1994 to 1996, Ms. Wallace served as Chief Financial
Officer — Mid-America Division of the Company.

Robert A. Waterman

has served as Senior Vice President
and General Counsel of the Company since November 1997.
Mr. Waterman served as a partner in the law firm of
Latham & Watkins from September 1993 to October 1997;
he was also Chair of the firm’s healthcare group during
1997.

Noel Brown Williams

has served as Senior Vice President
and Chief Information Officer of the Company since October 1997.
From October 1996 to September 1997, Ms. Williams served as
Chief Information Officer for American Service Group/ Prison
Health Services, Inc. From September 1995 to September 1996,
Ms. Williams worked as an independent consultant. From June
1993 to June 1995, Ms. Williams served as Vice President,
Information Services for HCA Information Services. From February
1979 to June 1993, she held various positions with HCA-Hospital
Corporation of America Information Services.

Alan R. Yuspeh

has served as Senior Vice
President — Ethics, Compliance and Corporate
Responsibility of the Company since October 1997. From September
1991 until October 1997, Mr. Yuspeh was a partner with the
law firm of Howrey & Simon. As a part of his law
practice, Mr. Yuspeh served from 1987 to 1997 as
Coordinator of the Defense Industry Initiative on Business
Ethics and Conduct.

Audit Committee Financial Expert

Our Audit and Compliance Committee is composed of Christopher J.
Birosak, Thomas F. Frist III, Christopher R. Gordon and
James C. Momtazee. In light of our status as a closely held
company and the absence of a public trading market for our
common stock, our Board has not designated any member of the
Audit and Compliance Committee as an “audit committee
financial expert.” Though not formally considered by our
Board given that our securities are not registered or traded on
any national securities exchange, based upon the listing
standards of the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”),
the national securities exchange upon which our common stock was
listed prior to the Merger, we do not believe that any of
Messrs. Birosak, Frist, Gordon or Momtazee would be
considered independent because of their relationships with
certain affiliates of the funds and other entities which hold
significant interests in Hercules Holding, which owns
approximately 97.5% of our outstanding common stock, and other
relationships with us. See Item 13, “Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions.”

Code of Ethics

We have a Code of Conduct which is applicable to all our
directors, officers and employees (the “Code of
Conduct”). The Code of Conduct is available on the Ethics
and Compliance and Corporate Governance pages



of our website at www.hcahealthcare.com. To the extent required
pursuant to applicable SEC regulations, we intend to post
amendments to or waivers from our Code of Conduct (to the extent
applicable to our chief executive officer, principal financial
officer or principal accounting officer) at this location on our
website or report the same on a Current Report on
Form

8-K.

Our Code
of Conduct is available free of charge upon request to our
Corporate Secretary, HCA Inc., One Park Plaza, Nashville,
TN 37203.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

Compensation Discussion and Analysis

The Compensation Committee (the “Committee”) of the
Board of Directors is generally charged with the oversight of
our executive compensation and rewards programs. The Committee
is currently composed of Michael W. Michelson, George A. Bitar,
John P. Connaughton and Thomas F. Frist, Jr., M.D.
Responsibilities of the Committee include the review and
approval of the following items:

In addition, the Committee considers the proper alignment of
executive pay policies with Company values and strategy by
overseeing employee compensation policies, corporate performance
measurement and assessment, and Chief Executive Officer
performance assessment. The Committee may retain the services of
independent outside consultants, as it deems appropriate, to
assist in the strategic review of programs and arrangements
relating to executive compensation and performance. The views
and recommendations of our Chief Executive Officer are also
solicited by the Committee with respect to executive
compensation as an additional factor in the final compensation
decisions with respect to persons other than the Chief Executive
Officer.

In 2006, the Committee was composed of C. Michael
Armstrong, Martin Feldstein, Frederick W. Gluck and
Charles O. Holliday, Jr., who served on our Board of
Directors prior to the Merger. Determinations with respect to
2006 compensation were made by this prior Committee.

Compensation Philosophy

The Committee believes the most effective executive compensation
program aligns the interests of our executives with those of our
stakeholders while encouraging long term executive retention.
Our primary objective is to provide the highest quality health
care to our patients while enhancing the long term value of the
Company to our shareholders. The Committee is committed to a
strong, positive link between our objectives and our
compensation and benefits practices.

Compensation Policies with Respect to Executive Officers for

Our executive compensation structure for 2006 consisted of base
salary (designed to be reasonable and competitive), annual PEP
awards payable in cash (designed to reward short term
performance and provide incentive for meeting financial,
strategic and other objectives), and restricted stock and stock
option grants (designed to enhance the mutuality of interests
between our officers and our shareholders and reward long term
performance). In addition, we provided an opportunity for
executives to participate in a stock purchase plan and two
supplemental retirement plans (designed to reward their long
term commitment and contributions to the Company, and Company
performance over an extended period of time).



While the Committee does not support rigid adherence to
benchmarks or compensatory formulas and strives to make
compensation decisions which reflect the unique attributes of
the Company and each employee, our general policy with respect
to pay positioning in 2006 was as follows:

•

Pay positioning should reflect both market competitiveness and
    internal job value.

•

Generally, executive base salaries and short term target
    incentives should position total annual cash compensation
    between the median and 75th percentile of the competitive
    marketplace.

•

The target value of long term incentive grants (stock options
    and restricted stock) should reference market median, internal
    job value and individual performance.

To ensure executives’ pay levels are consistent with the
compensation strategy, the Committee collected compensation data
from similarly sized general industry companies. Data was also
collected from other health care providers as an industry
reference, although we are significantly larger than other
companies in our industry that report compensation data. The
Committee believed this information provided an appropriate
basis for a competitive executive compensation assessment. With
respect to 2006 compensation, the Committee evaluated our
executive total pay positioning with the assistance of Semler
Brossy Consulting Group, LLC (“Semler Brossy”). In
particular, Semler Brossy assisted the Committee with the peer
and market survey and analyses and in the assessment of our
performance-based short and long term compensation programs.
Semler Brossy was selected due to its national recognition as a
compensation consulting firm and the fact that the Committee
believed Semler Brossy was independent of conflicts with either
the Board members or management. The compensation of Jack O.
Bovender, Jr., our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer;
Richard M. Bracken, our President and Chief Operating Officer;
R. Milton Johnson, our Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer; Samuel N. Hazen, our President —
Western Group; W. Paul Rutledge, our President —
Central Group; and Charles R. Evans, who served as
President — Eastern Group until October 1, 2006
(together, the “named executive officers”) for 2006 is
listed in the Summary Compensation Table.

Base Salary

In 2006, the Committee evaluated base salaries for our
executives, and assigned each executive position a salary range
based on market competitiveness and internal job value. In
determining appropriate salary levels and salary increases
within that range, the Committee considered a position’s
level of responsibility, projected role and responsibilities,
required impact on execution of Company strategy, external pay
practices, total cash and total direct compensation positioning,
and other factors it deemed appropriate. The Committee also
considered individual performance and vulnerability to
recruitment by other companies.

In January 2006, after conducting this assessment, we increased
salaries for all executives, including the named executive
officers. The average base salary increases in 2006 for our
executive officers, as well as for Messrs. Bovender,
Bracken, Johnson, Hazen and Evans as a group, was 3.5%. Because
of the increase to base salary Mr. Rutledge received in
October 2005 in connection with his promotion to
President — Central Group, Mr. Rutledge did not
receive a salary increase in January 2006. However, in October
2006, the Committee increased Mr. Rutledge’s base
salary approximately 8.3% in order to better align the salaries
of the presidents of our three operating groups.

Short Term Incentive Compensation

The purpose of the PEP is to reward participating employees for
annual financial and/or nonfinancial performance, with the goals
of providing high quality health care for our patients and
increasing shareholder value. In 2006, the Committee adopted
separate programs for our executive officers (the “Senior
Officer PEP”) and for our employees who are not executive
officers.

Each participant in the Senior Officer PEP is assigned an annual
award target expressed as a percentage of salary ranging from
30% to 120%. Actual awards under the Senior Officer PEP are
generally determined using three steps. First, the executive
must exhibit our mission and values, uphold our Code of Conduct
and follow our compliance policies and procedures. This step is
critical to reinforcing our commitment to integrity



and the delivery of high quality health care. In the event the
Committee determines the participant’s conduct during the
fiscal year is not in compliance with the first step, he or she
will not be eligible for an incentive award. Second, an initial
award amount is determined based upon one or more measures of
Company performance. In 2006, the Senior Officer PEP
incorporated two Company financial performance measures
(earnings per share, or “EPS,” and Earnings before
Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, or
“EBITDA,” each as defined in the Senior Officer PEP).
Generally, we then integrate an individual performance component
into most participants’ awards, although awards for certain
participants, including the named executive officers, remain
tied exclusively to the financial performance measures. The
Senior Officer PEP is designed to provide 100% of the target
award for target performance, 50% of the target award for a
minimum acceptable (threshold) level of performance, and a
maximum of 200% of the target award for maximum performance.
Payouts between threshold and maximum amounts are calculated by
the Committee, in its sole discretion, using interpolation. No
payments are made for performance below threshold levels. The
Committee approves the threshold, target and maximum performance
levels at the beginning of the fiscal year.

The Committee may make adjustments to the terms of awards under
the Senior Officer PEP in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring
events affecting a participant or the Company, or our financial
statements; in the event of changes in applicable laws,
regulations, or accounting principles; or in the event that the
Committee determines that such adjustments are appropriate in
order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits
available under the Senior Officer PEP. The Committee is also
authorized to adjust performance targets or awards to avoid
unwarranted penalties or windfalls, although adjustments to
avoid unwarranted penalties were not permitted under the 2006
Senior Officer PEP with respect to awards to Covered Officers
(as defined in the 2006 Senior Officer PEP), which includes the
named executive officers. Except as the Committee may otherwise
determine in its sole and absolute discretion, termination of a
participant’s employment prior to the end of the year,
other than for reasons of death or disability, will result in
the forfeiture of the award by the participant.

For 2006, the Committee set Messrs. Bovender’s,
Bracken’s, Johnson’s, Hazen’s, Rutledge’s
and Evans’s Senior Officer PEP targets at 120%, 90%, 60%,
60%, 60% and 60%, respectively, of base salary for target
performance. Awards under the 2006 Senior Officer PEP to Covered
Officers, including the named executive officers, were made
under the HCA 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2005
Plan”) and were structured in an effort to meet the
requirements for deductibility under Section 162(m) of the
Internal Revenue Code. As further discussed below under
“Long Term Equity Incentive Compensation,” pursuant to
the terms of the 2005 Plan, all awards made under the 2005 Plan
vest upon a “change of control” of the Company. As a
result, pursuant to the terms of the 2006 Senior Officer PEP and
the 2005 Plan, and in accordance with the Merger Agreement, upon
consummation of the Merger, awards under the 2006 Senior Officer
PEP vested and were paid out to the Covered Officers, including
the named executive officers, at the target level.
Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen, Rutledge and
Evans received $1,944,274, $954,785, $450,227, $473,203,
$390,000 and $326,034, respectively, under the 2006 Senior
Officer PEP upon consummation of the Merger.
Mr. Evans’s payment under the 2006 Senior Officer PEP
was prorated for the nine months he served as
President — Eastern Group.

We do not intend to publicly disclose the specific performance
targets for 2006 as they reflect competitive, sensitive
information regarding our budget. However, we consider our
budget a reach and we deliberately set aggressive individual
goals where applicable. Thus, while designed to be attainable,
target performance levels for 2006 required strong performance
and execution which in our view provided a bonus incentive
firmly aligned with stockholder interests. Our named executive
officers in our proxy statement for 2005 did not receive any
payout in 2005 with respect to financial performance targets
under the 2004 Senior Officer PEP. Our named executive officers
in our proxy statement for our 2006 annual meeting of
shareholders received payouts under the 2005 Senior Officer PEP
at the maximum level, or 200% of the target award, for maximum
performance with respect to our 2005 financial measures. The
Committee has historically attempted to maintain consistency
year over year with respect to the difficulty of achieving the
threshold, target and maximum performance levels.



Long Term Equity Incentive Awards

With respect to 2006 compensation, the Committee utilized long
term incentives, including stock options and restricted shares
issued pursuant to the 2005 Plan, to achieve three objectives:

•

Retain key executive talent;

•

Link executive compensation to our long term
    performance; and

•

Deliver value to employees in a manner that maximizes economic
    and tax effectiveness to the Company, while reducing shareholder
    dilution where possible.

In 2006, executive officers received long term incentive awards
under the 2005 Plan consisting of stock options and restricted
shares. The stock options and restricted share awards were each
intended to comprise 50% of the total award value. The Committee
believed this policy, in conjunction with an increased dividend
on our common stock, was consistent with its goals of executive
retention and focusing executives on our long term performance.
The issuance of restricted shares, rather than stock options,
was also intended to reduce future dilution to our shareholders
because we issued approximately one restricted share for every
four stock options we would have issued if we had continued to
primarily issue stock options, thus reducing the aggregate
number of shares granted in long term incentive awards. The
Committee felt that a balanced approach to long term incentives,
rather than reliance on a single equity vehicle, was consistent
with emerging competitive practices and served to benefit
shareholders and award recipients. Consistent with our pay
positioning policy, target stock option and restricted share
grant values were based on a number of factors, including an
assessment of our performance, the executive’s level of
responsibility, past and anticipated contributions to the
Company, competitive practices, and the potential dilution
resulting from equity-based grants.

As a privately held company, we no longer have a policy
regarding stock ownership guidelines. However, in 2006 as a
public company, we maintained ownership guidelines requiring
executive officers to own shares equal to a multiple of the
executive officer’s base salary. We maintained these
guidelines in an effort to firmly align the interests of our
executives with those of our shareholders and to ensure our
executives maintained a significant stake in our long term
performance.

Stock Options

In 2006, option grants to executive officers were made pursuant
to the 2005 Plan, had a 10 year term, and an exercise price
equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date
of grant based on the closing price of our common stock as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant. In
order to have the exercise price reflect the value of our stock
during the course of the award year and to encourage employee
retention, options awarded as long term incentive compensation
in 2006 were granted on a quarterly basis on pre-determined
dates in equal installments of one-fourth of the total number of
shares awarded, and were to vest ratably in increments of 25% on
each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the
initial grant date. In 2006, Messrs. Bovender, Bracken,
Johnson, Hazen, Rutledge and Evans received long term incentive
awards of options to purchase 267,000 shares,
119,600 shares, 72,500 shares, 72,500 shares,
72,500 shares and 72,500 shares, respectively. For
additional information concerning the options awarded in 2006,
see the Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table.

Restricted Shares

In 2006, restricted share grants were made pursuant to the 2005
Plan. To encourage retention, the restricted shares granted as
long term incentive compensation in 2006 were to vest ratably in
increments of 20% on each of the first, second, third, fourth
and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant. In 2006,
Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen, Rutledge and
Evans received 66,750 restricted shares, 29,900 restricted
shares, 18,100 restricted shares, 18,100 restricted shares,
18,100 restricted shares and 18,100 restricted shares,
respectively. For additional information concerning the
restricted shares awarded in 2006, see the Grants of Plan-Based
Awards Table.



The Committee’s meeting schedule in 2006 was set at the
beginning of the year, and the proximity of these awards to
earnings announcements or other market events was coincidental.
Prior to the Merger, we generally did not impose
performance-based vesting restrictions with respect to equity
awards. While we considered the merits of performance-based
vesting, we believed time-based equity awards directly and
firmly aligned the interests of our executives with those of our
shareholders. Time-based vesting provides economic benefit only
to the extent the employee remains employed by us, and the
multi-year vesting of these awards ensured long term performance
and stock price appreciation was required in order to realize
significant value from these awards. All awards made under the
2005 Plan were subject to a provision requiring the vesting of
such awards in full upon a “change of control” of the
Company. The Committee believed this acceleration feature to be
appropriate when adopting the 2005 Plan as it was generally
consistent with predecessor plans, and further based on the
Committee’s belief as to competitive market practices and
that the lack of an accelerated vesting provision may have put
us at a competitive disadvantage in our recruiting and retention
efforts as employees often consider equity upside opportunities
in an acquisition context a critical element of compensation.

As a result of the Merger, all unvested awards under the 2005
Plan (and all predecessor equity incentive plans) vested in
November 2006. Except to the extent any options awarded under
the 2005 Plan (or any predecessor plans) were rolled over into
the reorganized HCA, participants in the 2005 Plan (and all
predecessor plans) received consideration in the Merger for
their awards. Participants who held restricted shares pursuant
to the 2005 Plan (and any predecessor plans) received
$51.00 per share, less any applicable withholding taxes.
Participants who held options under the 2005 Plan (and any
predecessor plans) received a cash payment equal to the excess
(if any) of (a) the product of the number of shares subject
to such options and the $51.00 per share Merger
consideration, over (b) the aggregate exercise price of the
options, less any applicable withholding taxes. As a result of
the Merger, no further awards will be made under the 2005 Plan
or any predecessor equity incentive plan. As discussed below
under “2007 Compensation,” we adopted a new equity
plan in connection with the consummation of the Merger which is
designed to reflect our status as a sponsor-backed closely held
company.

Management Stock Purchase Plan

The HCA Inc. Amended and Restated Management Stock Purchase
Plan, or MSPP, allowed select executives, including the named
executive officers, to convert up to 25% of their annual base
salary into restricted shares granted at a discount of 25% of
the average closing price as reported on the New York Stock
Exchange on all trading days during a defined purchase period.
The MSPP was approved by shareholders in 1995 and amended in
1998 in connection with our elimination of a cash incentive
plan. The MSPP was amended again in 2004 to extend its term. The
MSPP provided that shares granted thereunder would generally
vest three years from the date of grant, encouraging a long term
focus. With certain exceptions, upon termination of employment
during the restricted period, the employee would receive a cash
payment equal to the lesser of (a) the then current fair
market value of the restricted shares or (b) the aggregate
salary foregone by the employee as a condition to receiving the
restricted shares.

As a result of the Merger, all unvested shares awarded under the
MSPP vested in November 2006. In addition, pursuant to the
Merger Agreement, participants in the MSPP during the purchase
period in which the Merger closed were refunded the amount of
salary they had deferred toward the future purchase of shares
under the MSPP and received the benefit of the gain on shares
that would have been purchased through such deferral. See
footnote (6) to the Summary Compensation Table. The MSPP
was terminated upon consummation of the Merger. Each of the
named executive officers participated in the MSPP.

2007 Compensation

In connection with the Merger, each of Messrs. Bovender,
Bracken, Johnson, Hazen and Rutledge, and certain other members
of senior management, entered into employment agreements (the
material terms of which are described under “Narrative
Disclosure to Summary Compensation Table and Grants of
Plan-Based Awards Table — Employment Agreements”)
which, among other things, set the executive’s annual base
salary (subject to any annual increases which may be approved by
the Board of Directors), and set PEP



targets and equity grants for 2007. Given that the compensation
of many of our executive officers had recently been renegotiated
in connection with the Merger, the Committee (as reconstituted
following the Merger) did not engage the services of a
compensation consultant with respect to, or otherwise undertake
an extensive reassessment of, executive compensation for 2007.
Accordingly, Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen and
Rutledge did not receive base salary increases or changes to
their PEP opportunities in 2007. With respect to the other
executive officers, in light of our strategies to manage
expenses in 2007, the Committee determined that none of the
executive officers should receive increases to their base
salaries or PEP opportunities in 2007. The 2007 Senior Officer
PEP incorporates EBITDA (defined as earnings before income
taxes, depreciation and amortization (but excluding any expenses
for share-based compensation under SFAS 123(R) with respect
to any awards granted under the 2006 Plan (as defined below)),
as determined in good faith by the Board in consultation with
the Chief Executive Officer) as the sole Company financial
performance measure. The change from two financial performance
measures (EPS and EBITDA) to one was made because we are now a
closely held company (and therefore EPS is a less meaningful
performance measure to our shareholders) and because EBITDA is
the Company financial performance measure used in our new option
agreements (which are described below).

Mr. Evans retired from the Company effective
December 31, 2006. In lieu of paying Mr. Evans the
lump sum severance payment pursuant to our severance policy
applicable to our employees generally, we have agreed that
Mr. Evans will continue to receive base salary and benefits
for a period of six months which ends June 30, 2007. See
“Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in
Control — Charles R. Evans.”

On November 17, 2006, the Board of Directors approved and
adopted the 2006 Stock Incentive Plan for Key Employees of HCA
Inc. and its Affiliates (the “2006 Plan”). The purpose
of the 2006 Plan is to promote our long term financial interests
and growth by attracting and retaining management and other
personnel and key service providers with the training,
experience and ability to enable them to make a substantial
contribution to the success of our business; to motivate
management personnel by means of growth-related incentives to
achieve long range goals; and to further the alignment of
interests of participants with those of our shareholders through
opportunities for increased stock or stock-based ownership in
the Company.

In January 2007, the Committee approved grants to
Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen and Rutledge of
options to purchase 399,604 shares,
349,654 shares, 249,753 shares, 159,841 shares
and 139,861 shares, respectively, of our common stock. The
options are divided so that 1/3 are time vested options, 1/3 are
EBITDA-based performance vested options and 1/3 are performance
options that vest based on investment return to the Sponsors,
each as described below.

The time vested options vest and become exercisable in equal
increments of 20% on each of the first five anniversaries of the
date of grant. The time vested options have a strike price
equivalent to fair market value on the date of grant (as
determined reasonably and in good faith by the Board of
Directors after consultation with the Chief Executive Officer).

The EBITDA-based performance vested options are eligible to vest
and become exercisable in equal increments of 20% at the end of
fiscal years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, but will vest on
those dates only if we achieve certain annual EBITDA performance
targets, as determined in good faith by the Board in
consultation with the CEO). The EBITDA-based performance vested
options also vest and become exercisable on a “catch
up” basis, if at the end of fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010
or 2011, the cumulative total EBITDA earned in all prior
completed fiscal years or the 2012 fiscal year exceeds the
cumulative total of all EBITDA targets in effect for such years.
Similar to 2006 performance-based awards, we do not intend to
publicly disclose the specific EBITDA performance targets for
these options. However, we intend to set these targets at levels
designed to be generally consistent with the level of difficulty
of achievement associated with prior year performance-based
awards.

The options that vest based on investment return to the Sponsors
are eligible to vest and become exercisable with respect to 10%
of the common stock subject to such options on each of the first
five anniversaries of the closing date of the Merger if the
Investor Return (as defined below) is at least equal to two
times the price paid to shareholders in the Merger (or $102.00),
and with respect to an additional 10% on each of the first five
anniversaries of the closing date if the Investor Return is at
least equal to two-and-a-half



times the price paid to shareholders in the Merger (or $127.50).
“Investor Return” means, on any of the first five
anniversaries of the closing date of the Merger, or any date
thereafter, all cash proceeds actually received by affiliates of
the Sponsors after the closing date in respect of their common
stock, including the receipt of any cash dividends or other cash
distributions (but including the fair market value of any
distribution of common stock by the Sponsors to their limited
partners), determined on a fully diluted, per share basis. The
Sponsor investment return options also may become vested and
exercisable on a “catch up” basis if the relevant
Investor Return is achieved at any time occurring prior to the
expiration of such options.

The combination of time, performance and investor return based
vesting of these awards is designed to compensate executives for
long term commitment to the Company, while motivating sustained
increases in our financial performance and helping ensure the
Sponsors have received an appropriate return on their invested
capital.

Our retirement and supplemental retirement plans were maintained
following the Merger and are further described below.

HCA 401(k) Plan and Retirement Plan

Generally, all employees, including the named executive
officers, are eligible to participate in the HCA 401(k) Plan
after they have completed two consecutive months of service.
Employees contribute funds from their paychecks to the 401(k)
Plan on a before-tax basis. Employees can direct their
contributions to any of the offered range of investment funds.
We match 50% of the first three percent of eligible pay an
employee contributes to his or her account, and those matching
contributions are automatically invested according to the
employee’s investment choices.

Generally, all employees, including the named executive
officers, are also eligible to participate in the HCA Retirement
Plan after completing one year of service and having at least
1,000 hours of service during a plan year during which they
were employed on both January 1 and December 31. The amount
of our annual contribution to an employee’s account is
based on a contribution schedule and the amount of an
employee’s pay, with a higher contribution applied to an
employee’s eligible pay that exceeds the Social Security
wage base, if any. An employee’s Retirement Plan account is
invested in diversified investment vehicles, such as domestic
and international stocks, fixed income securities and short term
securities.

Each of the named executive officers participates in the HCA
401(k) Plan and the Retirement Plan. For additional information
on the amounts contributed to those plans by us in 2006, see
footnote (6) to the Summary Compensation Table.

Restoration Plan and Supplemental Executive Retirement
    Plan

Our key executives, including the named executive officers,
participate in two supplemental retirement programs. The
Committee initially approved these supplemental retirement
programs to recognize significant long term contributions and
commitments by our executive officers to our growth and the
creation of stockholder value, to induce our executives to
continue in our employ through a specified retirement age
(initially 62 through 65, based on length of service) and to
help us remain competitive in attracting and retaining key
executive talent. The Restoration Plan provides a benefit to
replace the lost contributions due to the IRS compensation limit
under Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17). For
additional information concerning the Restoration Plan, see
“Nonqualified Deferred Compensation.” Key executives
also participate in the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
or the SERP. The SERP benefit brings the total value of annual
retirement income to a specific income replacement level. For
additional information concerning the SERP, see “Pension
Benefits.”

Personal Benefits

Our executive officers generally do not receive benefits outside
of those offered to our other employees. Mr. Bovender and
Mr. Bracken are permitted to use the Company aircraft for
personal trips, subject to the aircraft’s availability.
Other executive officers, including Messrs. Johnson, Hazen,
Rutledge and Evans may



have their spouses accompany them on business trips taken on the
Company aircraft, subject to seat availability. In addition,
there are times when it is appropriate for an executive’s
spouse to attend events related to our business. On those
occasions, we will pay for the travel expenses of the
executive’s spouse. We will, upon request, provide mobile
telephones and personal digital assistants to our employees and
certain of our executive officers have obtained such devices
through us. The value of these benefits is included in the
executive officers income for tax purposes and, in certain
limited circumstances, the additional income attributed to an
executive officer as a result of one of these benefits will be
grossed up to cover the taxes due on that income. The HCA
Foundation matches charitable contributions by executive
officers up to an aggregate of $10,000 per executive annually.
Except as otherwise discussed herein, other welfare and
employee-benefit programs are the same for all of our eligible
employees, including our executive officers. See footnote
(6) to the Summary Compensation Table.

Legal Fees

In accordance with our Restated Certificate of Incorporation
(prior to the Merger) and the laws of the State of Delaware, we
advanced payments for legal fees and expenses to certain of our
officers for retention of legal counsel in connection with
matters relating to their actions as an officer of the Company.
Currently, certain of our officers have been named in various
lawsuits, and we are cooperating with certain investigations
being conducted by the United States Attorney for the Southern
District of New York and the SEC. The proceedings and
investigations are described in greater detail in Item 3,
“Legal Proceedings.” In accordance with our Restated
Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law, any officer who
is advanced payments for legal fees will reimburse us for such
amounts in the event it is ultimately determined that the
individual is not entitled to indemnification under such
provisions. In 2006, we advanced payments for legal fees in the
amount of approximately $75,000 to Mr. Bracken.

In connection with the Merger, we paid substantial legal fees
which included fees for counsel retained by us on behalf of
management, including the named executive officers, to represent
them in the negotiation of certain agreements and other matters
related to the Merger. We paid legal fees of approximately
$2 million which related to the rollover program described
under “Narrative to Summary Compensation Table and Grants
of Plan-Based Awards Table — Option and Restricted
Share Awards,” and the 2006 Plan and related agreements
(see Item 13, “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions”) for the benefit of up to 1,600 HCA
employees, and for the negotiation of individual employment
agreements in connection with the Merger. These legal fees
represent a flat fee for group representation and it is not
practicable to specify which portions of these legal fees were
incurred with respect to any particular named executive officer
or any other employee.

Severance and Change in Control Agreements

As noted above, certain of our executive officers, including
Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen and Rutledge,
entered into employment agreements in connection with the
Merger, which agreements provide, among other things, for each
executive’s rights upon a termination of employment. We
believe that reasonable and appropriate severance and change in
control benefits are appropriate in order to be competitive in
our executive retention efforts. These benefits should reflect
the fact that it may be difficult for such executives to find
comparable employment within a short period of time. We also
believe that these types of agreements are appropriate and
customary in situations such as the Merger wherein the
executives have made significant personal investments in the
Company and that investment is generally illiquid for a
significant period of time. Finally, we believe formalized
severance and change in control arrangements are common benefits
offered by employers competing for similar senior executive
talent. Information regarding applicable payments under such
agreements for the named executive officers is provided under
“Narrative Disclosure to Summary Compensation Table and
Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table — Employment
Agreements” and “Potential Payments Upon Termination
or Change in Control.”

Tax and Accounting Implications

As part of its role in 2006, the Committee reviewed and
considered the deductibility of executive compensation under
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, which provides
that we may not deduct



compensation of more than $1,000,000 that is paid to certain
individuals. At the time of the review, we believed that
compensation paid in 2006 under the senior management cash and
equity incentive plans would generally be fully deductible for
federal income tax purposes. However, in certain situations, the
Committee approved compensation that did not meet these
requirements in order to ensure competitive levels of total
compensation for our executive officers. However, because the
Company was privately held on the last day of 2006,
Section 162(m) will not limit the tax deductibility of any
executive compensation for 2006. Similarly, Section 162(m)
was not a consideration with respect to 2007 compensation as our
common stock is no longer registered or publicly traded.

The Committee operates its compensation programs with the good
faith intention of complying with Section 409A of the
Internal Revenue Code. Effective January 1, 2006, we began
accounting for stock based payments with respect to our long
term equity incentive award programs in accordance with the
requirements of SFAS 123(R).

Conclusion

The Committee’s compensation philosophy for an executive
officer for 2006 was intended to reflect the unique attributes
of the Company and each employee individually in the context of
our pay positioning policies, emphasizing an overall analysis of
the executive’s performance for the prior year, projected
role and responsibilities, required impact on execution of our
strategy, vulnerability to recruitment by other companies,
external pay practices, total cash compensation and equity
positioning internally, current equity holdings, and other
factors the Committee deemed appropriate. We believe our
approach to executive compensation emphasized significant time
and performance-based elements intended to promote long term
shareholder value and strongly aligned the interests of our
executive officers with those of our shareholders.

Compensation Committee Report

The Compensation Committee has reviewed the Compensation
Discussion and Analysis and discussed it with management and,
based on such review, has recommended to the Board of Directors
that the Compensation Discussion and Analysis be included in
this Annual Report on
Form

10-K.

Michael W. Michelson (Chair)

George A. Bitar

John P. Connaughton

Thomas F. Frist, Jr., M.D.



Summary Compensation Table

The following table sets forth information regarding the
compensation earned by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief
Financial Officer and our other three most highly compensated
executive officers during 2006, and one additional person who
would have been one of our most highly compensated executive
officers had he not stepped down as an executive officer on
September 30, 2006 (named executive officers).

*

Mr. Evans retired from his position as
    President — Eastern Group effective October 1,
    2006, and retired from the Company effective December 31,
    2006.



Johnson’s Hazen’s, Rutledge’s and Evans’s
    SERP benefit value increased in 2006 by $4,185,617, $1,272,074,
    $299,972, $287,717, $199,078 and $1,406,032, respectively, as a
    result of the passage of time. In 2006, their SERP benefit value
    further increased due to three special, one-time events:
    (i) the payments made under the 2006 Senior Officer PEP in
    November 2006 described in footnote (4) to the Summary
    Compensation Table, which had the effect of increasing the named
    executive officers’ current final average earnings;
    (ii) the Merger constituted a change in control under the
    terms of the SERP, which triggered a decrease in the normal
    retirement age under the SERP from age 65 (or 62 with
    10 years of service) to age 60; and (iii) the
    Committee approved the amendment of the SERP to include a lump
    sum payment provision and to revise certain actuarial factors.
    The impact of each of these events on the SERP benefit values
    were:

Bovender

Bracken

Johnson

Hazen

Rutledge

Evans

Timing of PEP payment

$

2,593,533

$

732,167

$

293,215

$

263,193

$

307,300

$

316,971

Change to retirement age

$

1,250,090

$

1,535,685

$

576,907

$

620,300

$

556,513

$

746,179

Lump sum provision and actuarial factors

$

2,686,511

$

1,372,162

$

678,606

$

657,538

$

585,162

$

530,497

(6)

Amounts consist of:

•

The cash payment received as a result of the deemed purchase
    under the MSPP. Salary amounts withheld on behalf of the
    participants in the MSPP through the closing date of the Merger
    were deemed to have been used to purchase shares of our common
    stock under the terms of the MSPP, using the closing date of the
    Merger as the last date of the applicable offering period, and
    then converted into the right to receive a cash payment equal to
    the number of shares deemed purchased under the MSPP multiplied
    by $51.00. Salary amounts were refunded to the participants, and
    they also received a cash payment equal to the difference
    between $51.00 and the deemed purchase price, multiplied by the
    number of shares the participant was deemed to have purchased.
    Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen, Rutledge and
    Evans received cash payments of $20,860, $27,326, $24,157,
    $25,379, $19,709 and $13,982, respectively.

•

Company contributions to our Retirement Plan, matching Company
    contributions to our 401(k) Plan and Company accruals for our
    Restoration Plan as set forth below.

Bovender

Bracken

Johnson

Hazen

Rutledge

Evans

HCA Retirement Plan

$

19,019

$

19,019

$

19,019

$

19,019

$

19,019

$

17,290

HCA 401(k) matching contribution

$

3,125

$

3,300

$

3,300

$

3,300

$

3,300

$

3,300

HCA Restoration Plan

$

856,424

$

409,933

$

212,109

$

247,060

$

172,696

$

181,516

•

Dividends on restricted shares. On March 1, 2006,
    June 1, 2006 and September 1, 2006, we paid dividends
    of $0.15 per share, $0.17 per share and $0.17 per
    share, respectively, for each issued and outstanding share of
    common stock of HCA, including restricted shares.
    Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen, Rutledge and
    Evans received aggregate dividends of $82,525, $42,030, $25,267,
    $27,754, $26,500 and $24,060, respectively, in 2006 in respect
    of restricted shares held by them.

•

Personal use of corporate aircraft. In 2006, each of
    Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen and Rutledge were
    allowed personal use of the Company airplane with an incremental
    cost of approximately $30,336, $12,173, $11,308, $6,812 and
    $1,684, respectively, to the Company. Mr. Evans did not
    have any personal travel on the Company plane in 2006. We
    calculate the aggregate incremental cost of the personal use of
    Company aircraft based on a methodology that includes the
    average aggregate cost, on a per nautical mile basis, of
    variable expenses incurred in connection with personal plane
    usage, including trip-related maintenance, landing fees, fuel,
    crew hotels and meals, on-board catering, trip-related hangar
    and parking costs and other variable costs. Because our aircraft
    are used primarily for business travel, our incremental cost
    methodology does not include fixed costs of owning and operating
    aircraft that do not change based on usage. We grossed up the
    income attributed to



Messrs. Bovender and Bracken with respect to certain trips
    on the Company plane. The additional income attributed to them
    as a result of gross ups was $1,287 and $522, respectively. In
    addition, we will pay the travel expenses of our
    executives’ spouses associated with travel to business
    related events at which spouse attendance is appropriate. We
    paid approximately $469 for travel by Mr. Bracken’s
    wife on a commercial airline for such an event.



Grants of Plan-Based Awards

The following table provides information with respect to our
2006 Senior Officer PEP, as well restricted shares granted under
the MSPP in 2006, and restricted shares and options granted as
part of the named executive officers’ long term incentive
compensation awards made under the 2005 Plan during the 2006
fiscal year.



Fair Value

All Other

Estimated Possible Payouts

of All

Option

Fair Value of

Under Non-Equity Incentive

All Other

Other

Awards:

Exercise or

All Other

Plan Awards ($)(1)

Stock Awards:

Stock

Number of

Base Price of

Option

Number of

Awards at

Securities

Option

Awards at

Threshold

Target

Maximum

Shares of

Date of

Underlying

Awards

Date of

Name

Grant Date

($)

($)

($)

Stock(2)

Grant(2)

Options(3)

($/sh)(3)

Grant(3)

Charles R. Evans

7/26/2006

—

—

—

—

—

18,125

$

49.60

$

254,533

Charles R. Evans

10/26/2006

—

—

—

—

—

18,125

$

50.34

$

11,963

Charles R. Evans

N/A

$

163,017

$

326,034

$

652,069

—

—

—

—

—

(1)

Our 2006 Senior Officer PEP was administered pursuant to the
    terms of the 2005 Plan with respect to certain of our officers,
    including the named executive officers, and is described in more
    detail under “Compensation Discussion and
    Analysis — Short Term Incentive Compensation.”
    The amounts shown in the “Threshold” column reflect
    the threshold payment, which is 50% of the amount shown in the
    “Target” column. The amount shown in the
    “Maximum” column is 200% of the target amount. These
    amounts are based on the individual’s salary and position
    as of the date the 2006 Senior Officer PEP was approved by the
    Compensation Committee. Pursuant to the terms of the 2006 Senior
    Officer PEP and the 2005 Plan, and in accordance with the Merger
    Agreement, upon consummation of the Merger, awards under the
    2006 Senior Officer PEP vested and were paid out to certain of
    our officers, including the named executive officers, at the
    target level. Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen,
    Rutledge and Evans received $1,944,274, $954,785, $450,227,
    $473,203, $390,000 and $326,034, respectively, under the 2006
    Senior Officer PEP upon consummation of the Merger.
    Mr. Evans’s payment under the 2006 Senior Officer PEP
    was prorated for his service as President — Eastern
    Group for the first nine months of 2006.

(2)

Includes restricted shares awarded under the 2005 Plan by the
    Compensation Committee as part of the named executive
    officer’s long term incentive award. The terms of these
    restricted share awards are described in more detail under
    “Compensation Discussion and Analysis — Long Term
    Equity Incentive Awards — Restricted Shares.”
    Also includes restricted shares received in lieu of base salary
    pursuant to the MSPP. The shares were purchased at a 25%
    discount from the average market price of the stock during the
    deferral period. Amounts with respect to MSPP shares included in
    the table reflect the value of the 25% discount on the date of
    grant. Because the Merger closed in November 2006, shares were
    purchased under the MSPP only with respect to the first
    semi-annual deferral period in 2006. As a result of the Merger,
    all outstanding equity awards vested.

(3)

Includes stock options awarded under the 2005 Plan by the
    Compensation Committee as part of the named executive
    officer’s long term incentive award. The terms of these
    option awards are described in more detail under
    “Compensation Discussion and Analysis — Long Term
    Equity Incentive Awards  — Stock Options.” As a
    result of the Merger, all outstanding equity awards vested.

Narrative Disclosure to Summary Compensation Table and Grants
of Plan-Based Awards Table

Total Compensation

In 2006, total compensation, as described in the Summary
Compensation Table, was significantly impacted by the Merger and
related one time events. However, the design for our executive
compensation structure for 2006 originally consisted primarily
of base salary, annual PEP awards payable in cash, and
restricted stock and stock option grants. We weighted these
components so that annual incentive targets would generally be a
multiple of 0.6 times to 1.2 times base salary, and
long term incentive targets would generally be a multiple of
three to five times base salary. This mix was intended to
reflect our philosophy that a significant portion of an
executive’s compensation should be equity-linked and/or
tied to our operating performance. In addition, we provided an
opportunity for executives to participate in the MSPP and two
supplemental retirement plans. The one time events which
impacted our total executive compensation in 2006 are described
in more detail below.



Option and Restricted Share Awards

The most significant one time event effecting executive
compensation in 2006 was the Merger. As a result of the Merger,
all unvested awards under the 2005 Plan (and all predecessor
equity incentive plans) and the MSPP vested in
November 2006, including the options and restricted shares
awarded in 2006. Accordingly, all previously unrecognized
compensation expense associated with these awards was recognized
in 2006 in accordance with SFAS 123(R) and is included under the
“Stock Options” and “Restricted Stock
Awards” columns of the Summary Compensation Table.

Generally, all outstanding options under the 2005 Plan (and any
predecessor plans) were cancelled and converted into the right
to receive a cash payment equal to the number of shares of
common stock underlying the option multiplied by the amount by
which the Merger consideration of $51.00 per share exceeded
the exercise price for the options (without interest and less
any applicable withholding taxes). However, certain members of
management, including the named executive officers, were given
the opportunity to convert options held by them prior to
consummation of the Merger into options to purchase shares of
common stock of the surviving corporation (“Rollover
Options”). Immediately after the consummation of the
Merger, all Rollover Options (other than those with an exercise
price below $12.75) were adjusted so that they retained the same
“spread value” (as defined below) as immediately prior
to the Merger, but the new per share exercise price for all
Rollover Options would be $12.75. The term “spread
value” means the difference between (x) the aggregate
fair market value of the common stock (determined using the
Merger consideration of $51.00 per share) subject to the
outstanding options held by the participant immediately prior to
the Merger that became Rollover Options, and (y) the
aggregate exercise price of those options. Members of
management, including the named executive officers, received the
Merger consideration described above with respect to all options
other than Rollover Options.

Rollover Options held by the named executive officers are
described in the Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End
Table. Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen, Rutledge
and Evans received aggregate Merger consideration of
$14,253,903, $4,673,206, $333,966, $2,487,893, $170 and
$2,125,188, respectively, with respect to options other than
Rollover Options. These amounts are included in the Option
Exercises and Stock Vested Table. The Rollover Options were
exchanged on a tax-free basis and we did not record additional
compensation expense related to the rollover of those options in
2006. The inherent value of the Rollover Options, based on the
exchange ratio at the time of the closing of the Merger, for
each of Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen and
Rutledge was $13,788,896, $5,844,332, $6,000,239, $4,479,840 and
$1,338,865, respectively. Due to his imminent retirement,
Mr. Evans did not roll over any options.

Participants who held restricted shares pursuant to the 2005
Plan (and any predecessor plans) and the MSPP received
$51.00 per share, less any applicable withholding taxes, as
Merger consideration. These amounts are included in the Option
Exercises and Stock Vested Table.

Because of the timing of the close of the Merger in November
2006, the second annual deferral period with respect to the MSPP
terminated early. Upon the close of the Merger, all salary
amounts withheld on behalf of the participants in the MSPP
through the closing date of the Merger were deemed to have been
used to purchase shares of common stock under the terms of the
MSPP, using the closing date of the Merger as the last date of
the applicable offering period. Participants, including the
named executive officers, then received a cash payment equal to
the number of shares deemed purchased under the MSPP multiplied
by $51.00, less any salary amounts deferred pursuant to the MSPP
toward the purchase, which salary amounts were refunded. These
amounts are included in the “All Other Compensation”
column of the Summary Compensation Table.

2006 Senior Officer PEP

Our 2006 Senior Officer PEP was administered pursuant to the
terms of the 2005 Plan with respect to certain of our officers,
including the named executive officers. Accordingly, pursuant to
the terms of the 2006 Senior Officer PEP and the 2005 Plan, upon
consummation of the Merger, awards under the 2006 Senior Officer
PEP vested and were paid out to certain of our executive
officers, including the named executive



officers, at the target level. These amounts are included in the
“Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation” column of the
Summary Compensation Table.

SERP Benefits

Increases in the SERP benefit value during 2006 were impacted by
three special one-time events: (i) the payments made to
Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen, Rutledge and
Evans under the 2006 Senior Officer PEP upon consummation of the
Merger which had the effect of increasing the named executive
officers’ current final average earnings; (ii) the
Merger constituted a change in control under the terms of the
SERP, which triggered a decrease in the normal retirement age
under the SERP from age 65 (or 62 with 10 years of
service) to age 60; and (iii) the Compensation
Committee approved the amendment of the SERP to include a lump
sum payment provision and to revise certain actuarial factors,
as described in more detail under “Pension Benefits.”
The amounts associated with the impact of these events are
included in the “Changes in Pension Value and Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation Earnings” column of the Summary
Compensation Table and described in more detail in
footnote (5) thereto.

Employment Agreements

In connection with the Merger, on November 16, 2006,
Hercules Holding entered into substantially similar employment
agreements with each of Jack O. Bovender, Jr., Richard M.
Bracken, R. Milton Johnson, Samuel N. Hazen, W. Paul
Rutledge, Beverly B. Wallace, Charles J. Hall, and Robert A.
Waterman, which agreements were shortly thereafter assumed by
the Company and which agreements will govern the terms of each
executive’s employment. Although the employment agreements
did not impact the compensation paid in 2006 and discussed in
the Summary Compensation Table and Grants of Plan-Based Awards
Table, they are important to an understanding of our executive
compensation policies for 2007. The respective offices held by
each executive have not changed as a result of execution of
these employment agreements, although the agreements provide
that Jack O. Bovender, Jr. and Richard M. Bracken will be
members of our Board of Directors so long as they remain
officers of the Company, with Mr. Bovender continuing to
serve as the Chairman. The term of employment under each of
these agreements is indefinite and they are terminable by either
party at any time; provided that an executive must give no less
than 90 days notice prior to a resignation.

Each employment agreement sets forth the executive’s annual
base salary, which will be subject to discretionary annual
increases upon review by the Board of Directors, and states that
the executive will be eligible to earn an annual bonus as a
percentage of salary with respect to each fiscal year, based
upon the extent to which annual performance targets established
by the Board of Directors are achieved. With respect to the 2007
fiscal year, each executive is eligible to earn under the 2007
Senior Officer PEP (i) a target bonus, if 2007 performance
targets are met; (ii) a specified percentage of the target
bonus, if “threshold” levels of performance are
achieved but performance targets are not met; or (iii) a
multiple of the target bonus if “maximum” performance
goals are achieved, with the annual bonus amount being
interpolated, in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors,
for performance results that exceed “threshold” levels
but do not meet or exceed “maximum” levels. The
employment agreements commit us to provide each executive with
annual bonus opportunities in 2008 that are consistent with
those applicable to the 2007 fiscal year, unless doing so would
be adverse to our interests or the interests of our
shareholders. For later fiscal years, our Board of Directors
will set bonus opportunities in consultation with our Chief
Executive Officer. Each employment agreement also sets forth the
number of options that the executive will be granted pursuant to
the 2006 Plan as a percentage of the total equity initially to
be made available for grants pursuant to the 2006 Plan.

Pursuant to each employment agreement, if an executive’s
employment terminates due to death or disability, the executive
would be entitled to receive (i) any base salary and any
bonus that is earned and unpaid through the date of termination;
(ii) reimbursement of any unreimbursed business expenses
properly incurred by the executive; (iii) such employee
benefits, if any, as to which the executive may be entitled
under our employee benefit plans (the payments and benefits
described in (i) through (iii) being “accrued
rights”); and (iv) a pro rata portion of any
annual bonus that the executive would have been entitled to
receive pursuant to the employment agreement based upon our
actual results for the year of termination (with such proration
based on the percentage of the fiscal year that shall have
elapsed through the date of termination of employment, payable
to the executive when the annual bonus would have been otherwise
payable (the “pro rata bonus”)).



If an executive’s employment is terminated by us without
“cause” (as defined below) or by the executive for
“good reason” (as defined below) (each a
“qualifying termination”), the executive would be
(i) entitled to the accrued rights; (ii) subject to
compliance with certain confidentiality, non-competition and
non-solicitation covenants contained in his or her employment
agreement and execution of a general release of claims on behalf
of the Company, an amount equal to the product of (x) two
(three in the case of Jack O. Bovender, Jr., Richard M.
Bracken and R. Milton Johnson) and (y) the sum of
(A) the executive’s base salary and (B) annual
bonus paid or payable in respect of the fiscal year immediately
preceding the fiscal year in which termination occurs, payable
over a two-year period; (iii) entitled to the pro rata
bonus; and (iv) entitled to continued coverage under our
group health plans during the period over which the cash
severance described in clause (ii) is paid. However, in
lieu of receiving the payments and benefits described in (ii),
(iii) and (iv) immediately above, the executive may instead
elect to have his or her covenants not to compete waived by us.
The same severance applies regardless of whether the termination
was in connection with a change in control of the Company.

“Cause” is defined as an executive’s
(i) willful and continued failure to perform his material
duties to the Company which continues beyond 10 business days
after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered;
(ii) willful or intentional engagement in material
misconduct that causes material and demonstrable injury,
monetarily or otherwise, to the Company or the Sponsors;
(iii) conviction of, or a plea of

nolo contendere

to, a crime constituting a felony, or a misdemeanor for
which a sentence of more than six months’ imprisonment is
imposed; or (iv) willful and material breach of his
covenants under the employment agreement which continues beyond
the designated cure period or of the agreements relating to the
new equity. “Good Reason” is defined as (i) a
reduction in the executive’s base salary (other than a
general reduction that affects all similarly situated employees
in substantially the same proportions which is implemented by
the Board in good faith after consultation with the chief
executive officer and chief operating officer, a reduction in
the executive’s annual incentive compensation opportunity,
or the reduction of benefits payable to the executive under the
SERP; (ii) a substantial diminution in the executive’s
title, duties and responsibilities; or (iii) a transfer of
the executive’s primary workplace to a location that is
more than 20 miles from his current workplace (other than, in
the case of (i) and (ii), any isolated, insubstantial and
inadvertent failure that is not in bad faith and is cured within
10 business days after executive’s written notice to the
Company).

In the event of an executive’s termination of employment
that is not a qualifying termination or a termination due to
death or disability, he or she will only be entitled to the
“accrued rights” (as defined above).

In each of the employment agreements with the executives
(exclusive of Robert A. Waterman), we also commit to grant,
among the executives (exclusive of Robert A. Waterman), 10% of
the options initially authorized for grant under the 2006 Plan
at some time before November 17, 2011 (but with a good
faith commitment to do so before a “change in control”
or a “public offering” (as those terms are defined in
the new stock incentive plan) and before the time when our Board
of Directors reasonably believes that the fair market value of
our common stock is likely to exceed the equivalent of
$102.00 per share) at an exercise price per share that is
the equivalent of $102.00 per share. A percentage of these
options will be vested at the time of the grant, such percentage
corresponding to the elapsed percentage of the period measured
between November 17, 2006 and November 17, 2011. When
granted, these options will be allocated among the recipients by
our Board of Directors in consultation with our chief executive
officer based upon the perceived contributions of each recipient
since November 17, 2006. The terms of these options will
otherwise be consistent with other time vesting options granted
under the new stock incentive plan. Additionally, pursuant to
the employment agreements, we agree to indemnify each executive
against any adverse tax consequences (including, without
limitation, under Section 409A and 4999 of the Internal
Revenue Code), if any, that result from the adjustment by us of
stock options held by the executive in connection with Merger or
the future payment of any extraordinary cash dividends.

The employment agreement with Jack O. Bovender Jr. also
provides that in the event of (i) any termination of
Mr. Bovender’s employment after he has attained
62 years of age (other than a termination for cause) or
(ii) a termination of Mr. Bovender’s employment
by us without cause, then (A) neither Mr. Bovender nor
we will have any put or call rights with respect to
Mr. Bovender’s “new options” granted



pursuant to the 2006 Plan or stock acquired upon exercise of
such options (see Item 13. “Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions — Stockholder Agreements”),
(B) the unvested new options held by Mr. Bovender that
vest solely based on the passage of time will vest as if his
employment had continued through the next three anniversaries of
their date of grant, (C) the unvested new options held by
Mr. Bovender that are performance options will remain
outstanding and will vest, if at all, on the next three dates
that they would have otherwise vested had his employment
continued, based upon the extent to which performance goals are
met, (D) Mr. Bovender’s new options will remain
exercisable until the second anniversary of the last date on
which his performance based new options are eligible to vest,
except that his new options that are granted with a strike price
equal to two times that of his performance based new options
will remain exercisable until the fifth anniversary of the last
date on which his performance based new options are eligible to
vest, and (E) we will continue to provide coverage for
Mr. Bovender and his spouse under our group health plan (on
the same basis as such coverage was provided immediately prior
to termination of employment) until, in each case, he and his
spouse attain 65 years of age.

Additional information with respect to potential payments to the
named executive officers pursuant to their employment agreements
is contained in “Potential Payments Upon Termination or
Change in Control.”



Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End

The following table includes certain information with respect to
options and restricted shares held by the named executive
officers as of December 31, 2006.



(1)

The options described in this table represent Rollover Options,
    as further described under “Narrative Disclosure to Summary
    Compensation Table and Grants of Plan-Based Awards
    Table — Options and Restricted Share Awards.”
    There were no options granted under the 2006 Plan in 2006.

(2)

Immediately after the consummation of the Merger, all Rollover
    Options (other than those with an exercise price below $12.75)
    were adjusted such that they retained the same “spread
    value” (as defined below) as immediately prior to the
    Merger, but the new per share exercise price for all Rollover
    Options would be $12.75. The term “spread value” means
    the difference between (x) the aggregate fair market value
    of the common stock (determined using the Merger consideration
    of $51.00 per share) subject to the outstanding options
    held by the participant immediately prior to the Merger that
    became Rollover Options, and (y) the aggregate exercise
    price of those options.

(3)

As a result of the Merger, all unvested restricted shares under
    our equity incentive plans became fully vested. Participants who
    held restricted shares, including the named executive officers,
    received the merger consideration of $51.00 per share for
    each restricted share held by them, less any applicable
    withholding taxes.

Option Exercises and Stock Vested

The following table includes certain information with respect to
the options exercised and restricted shares that vested during
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.

Option Awards

Stock Awards

Number of Shares

Number of Shares

Acquired on

Value Realized on

Acquired on

Value Realized on

Name

Exercise(1)

Exercise ($)(1)

Vesting(2)

Vesting ($)(2)

Jack O. Bovender, Jr.

420,660

$

14,253,643

178,168

$

9,024,985

Richard M. Bracken

137,912

$

4,673,010

92,829

$

4,701,665

R. Milton Johnson

9,850

$

333,757

56,428

$

2,861,852

Samuel N. Hazen

73,419

$

2,487,729

62,100

$

3,140,286

W. Paul Rutledge

—

—

57,879

$

2,928,404

Charles R. Evans

315,575

$

2,125,188

52,818

$

2,670,339

(1)

As a result of the Merger, all options outstanding under our
    equity incentive plans at the time of the Merger became fully
    vested and immediately exercisable. Certain members of
    management, including the named executive officers, were given
    the opportunity to convert options held by them prior to
    consummation of the Merger into Rollover Options. With respect
    to Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen and Rutledge,
    the options and amounts described in this table reflect options
    held by the named executive officers that were not rolled over
    into the surviving corporation, and the gross amount payable
    with respect to such options in the Merger (including any
    amounts which were withheld from the participant to pay
    applicable withholding taxes). Due to his imminent retirement,
    Mr. Evans did not roll over any options. See “Narrative
    Disclosure to Summary Compensation Table and Grants of
    Plan-Based Awards Table” and the Outstanding Equity Awards
    at Fiscal-Year End Table.

(2)

Includes an aggregate of 13,093 shares with respect to
    Mr. Bovender, 7,590 shares with respect to
    Mr. Bracken, 4,225 shares with respect to
    Mr. Johnson, 5,706 shares with respect to
    Mr. Hazen, 9,291 shares with respect to
    Mr. Rutledge, and 4,591 shares with respect to
    Mr. Evans which vested in 2006 in accordance with their
    terms. The value realized on vesting with respect to those
    restricted shares is determined based upon the close price of
    our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of
    vesting. As a result of the Merger, all outstanding restricted
    shares under our equity incentive plans became fully vested.
    Participants who held restricted shares, including the named
    executive officers, received the Merger consideration of
    $51.00 per share for each restricted share held by them,
    less any applicable withholding taxes. The value disclosed in
    the table reflects the gross amount payable with respect to such
    restricted shares (including any amounts which were withheld
    from the participant to pay applicable withholding taxes).



Pension Benefits

Our SERP is intended to qualify as a “top-hat” plan
designed to benefit a select group of management or highly
compensated employees. There are no other defined benefit plans
that provide for payments or benefits to any of the named
executive officers. Information about benefits provided by the
SERP is as follows:

Number of Years

Present Value of

Payments During

Name

Plan Name

Credited Service

Accumulated Benefit

Last Fiscal Year

Jack O. Bovender, Jr.

SERP


$

21,078,516

$


Richard M. Bracken

SERP


$

7,876,338

$


R. Milton Johnson

SERP


$

1,940,003

$


Samuel N. Hazen

SERP


$

2,536,329

$


W. Paul Rutledge

SERP


$

2,305,297

$


Charles R. Evans

SERP


(1)

$

4,678,005

$


(1)

Mr. Evans was granted three additional years of service in
    accordance with the SERP’s provision for Termination for
    Good Reason following a Change in Control, which increased the
    present value of his accumulated benefit by $800,280.

Mr. Bovender is eligible for normal retirement. Mr. Evans
is eligible for early retirement. The remaining named executive
officers have not satisfied the eligibility requirements for
normal or early retirement. All of the named executive officers
are 100% vested in their accrued SERP benefit.

Plan Provisions

In the event the employee’s “accrued benefits under
the Company’s Plans” (computed using “actuarial
factors”) are insufficient to provide the “life
annuity amount,” the SERP will provide a benefit equal to
the amount of the shortfall. Benefits can be paid in the form of
an annuity or a lump sum. The lump sum is calculated by
converting the annuity benefit using the “actuarial
factors.” All benefits with a present value not exceeding
one million dollars are paid as a lump sum regardless of the
election made.

Normal retirement eligibility requires attainment of age 60
for employees who were participants at the time of the change in
control, including all of the named executive officers. Early
retirement eligibility requires age 55 with 20 or more
years of service. The service requirement for early retirement
is waived for employees participating in the SERP at the time of
its inception in 2001, including all of the named executive
officers. The “life annuity amount” payable to a
participant who takes early retirement is reduced by three
percent for each full year or portion thereof that the
participant retires prior to normal retirement age.

The “life annuity amount” is the annual benefit
payable as a life annuity to a participant upon normal
retirement. It is equal to the participant’s “accrual
rate” multiplied by the product of the participant’s
“years of service” times the participant’s
“pay average.” The SERP benefit for each year equals
the life annuity amount less the annual life annuity amount
produced by the employee’s “accrued benefit under the
Company’s Plans.”

The “accrual rate” is a percentage assigned to each
participant, and is either 2.2% or 2.4%. All of the named
executive officers are assigned a percentage of 2.4%.

A participant is credited with a “year of service” for
each calendar year that the participant performs
1,000 hours of service for HCA or one of our subsidiaries,
or for each year the participant is otherwise credited by us,
subject to a maximum credit of 25 years of service.

A participant’s “pay average” is an amount equal
to one-fifth of the sum of the compensation during the period of
60 consecutive months for which total compensation is greatest
within the 120 consecutive month period immediately preceding
the participant’s retirement. For purposes of this
calculation, the participant’s compensation includes base
compensation, payments under the PEP, and bonuses paid prior to
the establishment of the PEP.



The “accrued benefits under the Company’s Plans”
for an employee equals the sum of the employer-funded benefits
accrued under the HCA Retirement Plan, the HCA 401(k) Plan and
any other tax-qualified plan maintained by us or one of our
subsidiaries, the income/loss adjusted amount distributed to the
participant under any of these plans, the account credit and the
income/loss adjusted amount distributed to the participant under
the Restoration Plan and any other nonqualified retirement plans
sponsored by us or one of our subsidiaries.

The “actuarial factors” include (a) interest at
the long term Applicable Federal Rate under Section 1274(d)
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “Code”)
or any successor thereto as of the first day of November
preceding the plan year in or for which a benefit amount is
calculated, and (b) mortality based on the prevailing
commissioner’s standard table (as described in Code
section 807(d)(5)(A)) used in determining reserves for
group annuity contracts.

Credited service does not include any amount other than service
with us or one of our subsidiaries.

Assumptions

The Present Value of Accumulated Benefit is based on a
measurement date of December 31, 2006. The measurement date
for valuing plan liabilities on our balance sheet is
September 30, 2006, but the measurement date will be
changed in Fiscal 2008 in accordance with the requirements of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158. Using
a December 31 measurement date will produce consistent
results year to year, reflect the change in control which
occurred as a result of the Merger more accurately, and make
sure the most

up-to

-date pay
information is included.

Benefits are valued assuming a 50% probability of electing a
lump sum and a 50% probability of electing an annuity which is
consistent with the valuation of liabilities in this annual
report. However, actual benefit elections were collected after
the measurement date of September 30, 2006. All named
executive officers elected a lump sum payment at retirement,
with the exception of Mr. Bovender. Mr. Bovender
elected an annuity. Reflecting actual elections would change the
present value of accumulated benefit in column (d) by
decreasing Mr. Bovender’s present value by $1,485,860,
and increasing Messrs. Bracken’s, Johnson’s,
Hazen’s, Rutledge’s and Evans’s present value by
$559,186, $137,733, $180,068, $163,664 and $332,117,
respectively.

The assumption is made that there is no probability of
pre-retirement death or termination. Retirement age is assumed
to be the Normal Retirement Age as defined in the SERP for all
named executive officers, as adjusted by the provisions relating
to change in control, or age 60. Age 60 also
represents the earliest date the named executive officers are
eligible to receive an unreduced benefit.

All other assumptions used in the calculations are the same as
those used for the valuation of the plan liabilities in this
annual report.

Supplemental Information

In the event any participant terminates with good reason or is
terminated without cause within six months of a change in
control, an additional three years of credited service are
granted, subject to a maximum of twenty five years of total
credited service. This provision would enhance the accumulated
benefit value for Messrs. Johnson and Hazen by $324,516 and
$171,591, respectively. Messrs. Bovender, Bracken and
Rutledge are each already credited with 25 years of
service, and Mr. Evans has elected to retire.

In the event a participant renders service to another health
care organization within five years following retirement or
termination of employment, he or she forfeits his rights to any
further payment, and must repay any benefits already paid. This
noncompetition provision is subject to waiver by the
Compensation Committee with respect to the named executive
officers.



Nonqualified Deferred Compensation

Amounts shown in the table are attributable to the HCA
Restoration Plan, an unfunded, nonqualified defined contribution
plan designed to restore benefits under the HCA Retirement Plan
based on compensation in excess of Code Section 401(a)(17)
compensation limit ($220,000 in 2006).

Executive

Registrant

Aggregate

Aggregate

Contributions

Contributions

Earnings

Aggregate

Balance

in Last

in Last

in Last

Withdrawals/

at Last

Name

Fiscal Year

Fiscal Year

Fiscal Year

Distributions

Fiscal Year

Jack O. Bovender, Jr.

$


$

856,424

$

178,899

$


$

2,696,069

Richard M. Bracken

$


$

409,933

$

96,222

$


$

1,403,673

R. Milton Johnson

$


$

212,109

$

32,249

$


$

549,363

Samuel N. Hazen

$


$

247,060

$

49,129

$


$

757,286

W. Paul Rutledge

$


$

172,696

$

21,858

$


$

404,137

Charles R. Evans

$


$

181,516

$

26,378

$


$

464,014

All of the amounts in the column titled “Registrant
Contributions in Last Fiscal Year” above were also included
in the column titled “All Other Compensation” of the
Summary Compensation Table. The following amounts from the
column titled “Aggregate Balance at Last Fiscal Year”
have been reported in the Summary Compensation Tables in prior
years:

Restoration Contribution

Name






Jack O. Bovender, Jr.

$

187,193

$

268,523

$

289,899

$

363,481

$

295,062

Richard M. Bracken

$

87,924

$

146,549

$

162,344

$

192,858

$

172,571

R. Milton Johnson

—

—

—

—

$

71,441

Samuel N. Hazen

—

—

$

79,510

$

101,488

$

97,331

Neither Mr. Rutledge nor Mr. Evans have appeared in
the Summary Compensation table in prior years.

Plan Provisions

Hypothetical accounts for each participant are credited each
year with the following percentages of eligible compensation in
excess of the pay limit established by the Internal Revenue
Service (the “IRS”), based on years of service.
Eligible compensation is based on the same definition as the HCA
Retirement Plan, without regard to the IRS compensation limit.
No employee deferrals are allowed under this or any other
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.

Contribution

Service

Credit

0 to 4 years

4.5

%

5 to 9 years

6.0

%

10 to 14 years

8.0

%

15 to 19 years

10.0

%

20 or more years

11.0

%

Messrs. Bovender, Bracken, Johnson, Hazen, Rutledge and
Evans have 27 years of service, 25 years of service,
23 years of service, 24 years of service,
25 years of service and 17 years of service,
respectively. Hypothetical account balances are increased or
decreased with investment earnings based on the actual
investment return in the underlying qualified retirement plan
trust (the HCA Retirement Plan).

Eligible employees make a one time election prior to
participation (or prior to December 31, 2007, if later)
regarding the form of distribution of the benefit. Participants
choose between a lump sum and five or ten installments.
Distributions are paid (or begin) during the July following the
year of termination of



employment or retirement. All balances not exceeding $500,000
are automatically paid as a lump sum. If no election is made,
the benefit is paid in a lump sum.

Supplemental Information

In the event a participant renders service to another health
care organization within five years following retirement or
termination of employment, he or she forfeits the rights to any
further payment, and must repay any payments already made. This
noncompetition provision is subject to waiver by the Committee
with respect to the named executive officers.

Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control

The following tables show the estimated amount of potential cash
severance payable to each of the named executive officers, as
well as the estimated value of continuing benefits, based on
compensation and benefit levels in effect on December 31,
2006, assuming the executive’s employment terminates
effective December 31, 2006. Due to the numerous factors
involved in estimating these amounts, the actual value of
benefits and amounts to be paid can only be determined upon an
executive’s termination of employment.

Jack O. Bovender, Jr.



Richard M. Bracken



R. Milton Johnson



Samuel N. Hazen



W. Paul Rutledge



Charles R. Evans



Director Compensation

The following table provides compensation information for the
year ended December 31, 2006 for each of our non-employee
directors prior to the consummation of the Merger. Employee
directors are not eligible for any additional compensation for
service on the Board or its committees.

•

Dividends on restricted shares and restricted share units. On
    March 1, 2006, June 1, 2006 and September 1,
    2006, we paid dividends of $0.15 per share, $0.17 per
    share and $0.17 per share for each issued and outstanding
    share of common stock of HCA, including restricted shares.
    Additionally, we accrued dividends with respect to certain
    restricted share units held by the directors. As a result of the
    Merger, all accrued but previously unpaid dividends on
    restricted share units were paid in 2006.

•

Personal use of corporate aircraft. In 2006, Dr. Frist and
    Dr. Shapiro were allowed personal travel on our airplane
    with an incremental cost of approximately $2,793 and $1,939,
    respectively, to us. The aggregate incremental cost of
    Drs. Frist and Shapiro’s travel on the plane was
    calculated based on the same methodology used to determine the
    cost of the named executive officers’ personal airplane
    usage,



which is described in footnote (6) to the “Summary
    Compensation Table.” We grossed up the income attributed to
    Dr. Frist with respect to one trip he made on the Company
    airplane, which amount is also included.

•

Amounts paid by The HCA Foundation in 2006 to charities of the
    directors’ selection through our matching charitable
    contribution program.

Narrative to Director Compensation Table

In 2006, non-management directors received an annual retainer of
$55,000, which they could elect to receive in the form of cash,
restricted shares or restricted share units. A director received
a 25% premium over the annual retainer amount with respect to
any retainer amount he or she elected to receive in the form of
restricted shares or restricted share units. Awards were made
pursuant to the 2005 Plan. Non-management directors also
received long term incentive awards under the 2005 Plan having a
value of $100,000. The long term incentive awards were paid 50%
in the form of stock options having a Black-Scholes value of
approximately $50,000 on the date of grant. Twenty percent of
the options were to vest on the date of grant, with an
additional 20% of the options granted vesting on the first,
second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant. The
remaining 50% of the long term incentive award was paid in the
form of restricted share units having a value of $50,000 on the
date of grant (based on the close price of our common stock of
$43.49 per share on the New York Stock Exchange on
May 25, 2006, the date of grant). The awards were to vest
on the second anniversary of the date of grant. The awards were
made pursuant to the 2005 Plan. In 2006, in addition to the
annual retainer, the Board meeting fee was $2,000 per
meeting for non-management directors.

Non-management director committee members received an annual
committee retainer of $3,000 and committee chairpersons, other
than the audit committee chairperson, received a $10,000 annual
committee retainer in 2006. The audit committee chairperson
received an annual committee retainer of $20,000 in 2006. The
presiding director also received an annual retainer of $10,000
in 2006. These retainers were payable in cash, restricted shares
or restricted share units. As was the case with the annual
retainer, a director received a 25% premium with respect to any
committee-related retainer amounts he or she elected to receive
in the form of restricted shares or restricted share units.
Committee members received a meeting fee of $1,500 per
committee meeting. We also reimbursed directors for expenses
incurred relating to attendance at Board and committee meetings.

We have occasionally asked a director, as part of his or her
service as a director, to participate in a business related
meeting or in meetings which we believe will further his or her
education as a director of a public company. In such event, we
reimburse the director for reasonable travel expenses and pay
the director an additional fee equal to the Board meeting fee.
We paid Dr. Averhoff $2,000 in 2006 with respect to her
attendance at an HCA division meeting.

The HCA Foundation matches charitable contributions by directors
up to an aggregate $15,000 annually for each director.

In connection with its consideration of the Merger, in 2006 the
Board appointed a Special Committee consisting of
Messrs. Gluck, Holliday, Long and Nelson and
Ms. Hatchett. Mr. Gluck served as chairman of the
Special Committee. As compensation for their service on the
Special Committee, the chairman received a retainer of $100,000
and the Committee members received retainers of $60,000.
Committee members did not receive meeting fees with respect to
Special Committee meetings. All amounts paid with respect to
service on the Special Committee were paid in cash.

In 2006, as a publicly held company, we maintained ownership
guidelines requiring directors to own shares of our common stock
equal in value to five times the annual retainer for service on
our Board. However, because we are now a privately held company,
we no longer maintain stock ownership guidelines.

In accordance with our Restated Certificate of Incorporation
(prior to the Merger) and the laws of the State of Delaware, we
advanced payments for legal fees and expenses to certain of our
directors for retention of legal counsel in connection with
matters relating to their actions as a director of the Company.
Currently,



certain of our directors have been named in various lawsuits,
and we are cooperating with certain investigations being
conducted by the United States Attorney for the Southern
District of New York and the SEC. The proceedings and
investigations are described in greater detail in Item 3,
“Legal Proceedings.” In accordance with our Restated
Certificate of Incorporation and Delaware law, any director who
is advanced legal fees will reimburse us for such amounts in the
event it is ultimately determined that the individual is not
entitled to indemnification under such provisions. In 2006, we
advanced legal fees in the amount of approximately $116,000 to
Dr. Frist.

In addition, in connection with the Merger, we paid substantial
legal fees which included fees for counsel retained by
Dr. Frist and his affiliates with respect to the
negotiation of certain agreements and other matters related to
the Merger. We paid legal fees of approximately
$1.1 million with respect to such representation in
connection with the Merger.

Currently, none of our directors receive compensation for their
service as a member of our Board. They are reimbursed for any
expenses incurred in connection with their service.

Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation

During 2006, prior to the closing of the Merger, the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors was composed of
C. Michael Armstrong, Martin Feldstein, Frederick W. Gluck and
Charles O. Holliday, Jr. None of these persons has at any
time been an officer or employee of HCA or any of its
subsidiaries. In addition, there were no relationships among our
executive officers, members of the Compensation Committee or
entities whose executives served on the Compensation Committee
that required disclosure under applicable SEC rules and
regulations.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The following table sets forth information regarding the
beneficial ownership of our common stock as of February 28,
2007 for:

The percentages of shares outstanding provided in the tables are
based on 93,003,950 shares of our common stock, par value
$0.01 per share, outstanding as of February 28, 2007.
Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the rules
of the SEC and generally includes voting or investment power
with respect to securities. Shares issuable upon the exercise of
options that are exercisable within 60 days of
February 28, 2007 are considered outstanding for the
purpose of calculating the percentage of outstanding shares of
our common stock held by the individual, but not for the purpose
of calculating the percentage of outstanding shares held by any
other individual. The address of each of our directors and
executive officers listed below is c/o HCA Inc.,
One Park Plaza, Nashville, Tennessee 37203.





This table provides certain information as of December 31,
2006 with respect to our equity compensation plans (shares in
thousands):

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION

(a)

(b)

(c)

Number of securities

Weighted-average

Number of securities remaining

to be issued

exercise price of

available for future issuance

upon exercise of

outstanding

under equity compensation

outstanding options,

options,

plans (excluding securities

warrants and rights

warrants and rights

reflected in column(a))

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders

2,285

$

12.50

10,656

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

—

—

—

Total

2,285

$

12.50

10,656

*

For additional information concerning our equity compensation
    plans, see the discussion in Note 3 — Share-Based
    Compensation in the notes to the consolidated financial
    statements.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

In accordance with its charter, our Audit and Compliance
Committee reviews and approves all material related party
transactions. Prior to its approval of any material related
party transaction, the Audit and Compliance Committee will
discuss the proposed transaction with management and our
independent auditor. In addition, our Code of Conduct requires
that all of our employees, including our executive officers,
remain free of conflicts of interest in the performance of their
responsibilities to the Company. An executive officer who wishes
to enter into a transaction in which their interests might
conflict with ours must first receive the approval of the Audit
and Compliance Committee. The Amended and Restated Limited
Liability Company Agreement of Hercules Holding II, LLC
generally requires that an Investor must obtain the prior
written consent of each other Investor before it or any of its
affiliates (including our directors) enter into any transaction
with us.

Stockholder Agreements

In connection with the Merger, Hercules Holding offered certain
members of management, including our executive officers, the
opportunity (i) to exchange unrestricted shares of our
common stock outstanding prior to the Merger for shares of
common stock in the surviving company (“Rollover
Stock”), (ii) to purchase shares of our common stock
after the Merger (“Purchased Stock” and, together with
the Rollover Stock, “Stock”), and (iii) to
exchange a portion of their outstanding options to purchase our
common stock prior to the Merger for fully exercisable options
to purchase shares of the surviving company (referred to herein
as the Rollover Options). In addition, on January 30, 2007,
our Board of Directors awarded to members of management and
certain key employees new options to purchase shares of our
common stock (“New Options” and, together with the
Rollover Options, “Options”) pursuant to the 2006
Plan. In connection with their equity ownership in the surviving
company, the participants were required to enter into an
Exchange and Purchase Agreement, an Option Rollover Agreement, a
Management Stockholder’s Agreement, a Sale Participation
Agreement, and an Option Agreement with respect to the new
options. Below are brief summaries of the principal terms of the
Management Stockholder’s Agreement, the Sale Participation
Agreement, the Option Rollover Agreement and the Exchange and
Purchase Agreement, each of which are qualified in their
entirety by reference to the agreements themselves, forms of
which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.12, 10.13, 10.14
and 10.15 respectively. The terms of the Option Agreement with
respect to New Options and the 2006 Plan are described in more
detail in Item 11, “Executive Compensation —
Compensation Discussion and Analysis — 2007
Compensation.”



Exchange and Purchase Agreement.

The Exchange and
Purchase Agreement provided for the exchange of shares of our
common stock outstanding prior to the Merger for shares of
common stock in the recapitalized company by
(i) transferring such shares to Hercules Holding in
exchange for membership interests in Hercules Holding
immediately prior to the Merger and (ii) immediately after
the Merger receiving from Hercules Holding, in liquidation of
such membership interests, shares of common stock in the
surviving company equal to the value of the shares contributed.
The Exchange and Purchase Agreement also provided for the
purchase by Hercules Holding of any shares of a
participant’s common stock which were not rolled over.

Option Rollover Agreement.

Participants who rolled over
their options to purchase shares of our common stock prior to
the Merger into Rollover Options entered into an Option Rollover
Agreement, which provides that all Rollover Options will remain
outstanding in accordance with the terms set forth in the stock
incentive plan and grant agreement pursuant to which the options
were originally granted. The Option Rollover Agreement also
provided that the Rollover Options retain the same “spread
value” (as defined below) as the outstanding options held
by the participant immediately prior to the Merger, but required
the number of shares of our common stock subject to such
Rollover Options following the Merger to be adjusted such that
the per share exercise price for all Rollover Options be $12.75.
The term “spread value” means the difference between
(x) the aggregate fair market value immediately prior to
the Merger of the common stock (determined using the Merger
consideration of $51.00 per share) subject to the
outstanding options a participant rolled over and (y) the
aggregate exercise price of those options.

Management Stockholder’s Agreement.

The Management
Stockholder’s Agreement imposes significant restrictions on
transfers of shares of our common stock. Generally, shares will
be nontransferable by any means at any time prior to the earlier
of a “Change in Control” (as defined in the Management
Stockholder’s Agreement) or the fifth anniversary of the
closing date of the Merger, except (i) sales pursuant to an
effective registration statement under the Securities Act of
1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) filed by the
Company in accordance with the Management Stockholder’s
Agreement, (ii) a sale pursuant to the Sale Participation
Agreement (described below), (iii) a sale to certain
“Permitted Transferees” (as defined in the Management
Stockholder’s Agreement), or (iv) as otherwise
permitted by our Board of Directors or pursuant to a waiver of
the restrictions on transfers given by unanimous agreement of
the Sponsors. On and after such fifth anniversary through the
earlier of a Change in Control or the eighth anniversary of the
closing date of the Merger, a management stockholder will be
able to transfer shares of our common stock, but only to the
extent that, on a cumulative basis, the management stockholders
in the aggregate do not transfer a greater percentage of their
equity than the percentage of equity sold or otherwise disposed
of by the Sponsors.

In the event that a management stockholder wishes to sell their
stock at any time following the fifth anniversary of the closing
date of the Merger but prior to an initial public offering of
our common stock, the Management Stockholder’s Agreement
provides the Company with a right of first offer on those shares
upon the same terms and conditions pursuant to which the
management stockholder would sell them to a third party. In the
event that a registration statement is filed with respect to our
common stock in the future, the Management Stockholder’s
Agreement prohibits management stockholders from selling shares
not included in the registration statement from the time of
receipt of notice until 180 days (in the case of an initial
public offering) or 90 days (in the case of any other
public offering) of the date of the registration statement. The
Management Stockholder’s Agreement also provides for the
management stockholder’s ability to cause us to repurchase
their outstanding stock and options in the event of the
management stockholder’s death or disability, and for our
ability to cause the management stockholder to sell their stock
or options back to the Company upon certain termination events.

The Management Stockholder’s Agreement provides that, in
the event we propose to sell shares to the Sponsors, certain
members of senior management, including the executive officers
(the “Senior Management Stockholders”) have a
preemptive right to purchase shares in the offering. The maximum
shares a Senior Management Stockholder may purchase is a
proportionate number of the shares offered to the percentage of
shares owned by the Senior Management Stockholder prior to the
offering. Additionally, following the initial public offering of
our common stock, the Senior Management Stockholders will have
limited “piggyback” registration rights with respect
to their shares of common stock. The maximum number of shares of
Common



Stock which a Senior Management Stockholder may register is
generally proportionate with the percentage of common stock
being sold by the Sponsors (relative to their holdings thereof).

Sale Participation Agreement.

The Sale Participation
Agreement grants the Senior Management Stockholders the right to
participate in any private direct or indirect sale of shares of
common stock by the Sponsors (such right being referred to
herein as the “Tag-Along Right”), and requires all
management stockholders to participate in any such private sale
if so elected by the Sponsors in the event that the Sponsors are
proposing to sell at least 50% of the outstanding common stock
held by the Sponsors, whether directly or through their
interests in Hercules Holding (such right being referred to
herein as the “Drag-Along Right”). The number of
shares of common stock which would be required to be sold by a
management stockholder pursuant to the exercise of the
Drag-Along Right will be the sum of the number of shares of
common stock then owned by the management stockholder and his
affiliates plus all shares of common stock the management
stockholder is entitled to acquire under any unexercised Options
(to the extent such Options are exercisable or would become
exercisable as a result of the consummation of the proposed
sale), multiplied by a fraction (x) the numerator of which
shall be the aggregate number of shares of common stock proposed
to be transferred by the Sponsors in the proposed sale and
(y) the denominator of which shall be the total number of
shares of common stock owned by the sponsors entitled to
participate in the proposed sale. Management stockholders will
bear their pro rata share of any fees, commissions, adjustments
to purchase price, expenses or indemnities in connection with
any sale under the Sale Participation Agreement.

Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of
Hercules Holding II, LLC

The Investors and certain other investment funds who agreed to
co-invest with them through a vehicle jointly controlled by the
Investors to provide equity financing for the Recapitalization
entered into a limited liability company operating agreement in
respect of Hercules Holding (the “LLC Agreement”). The
LLC Agreement contains agreements among the parties with respect
to the election of our directors, restrictions on the issuance
or transfer of interests in us, including a right of first
offer, tag-along rights and drag-along rights, and other
corporate governance provisions (including the right to approve
various corporate actions).

Pursuant to the LLC Agreement, Hercules Holding and its members
are required to take necessary action to ensure that each
manager on the board of Hercules Holding also serves on our
Board of Directors. Each of the Sponsors has the right to
appoint three managers to Hercules Holding’s board, the
Frist family has the right to appoint two managers to the board,
and the remaining two managers on the board are to come from our
management team (currently Messrs. Bovender and Bracken).
The rights of the Sponsors and the Frist family to designate
managers are subject to their ownership percentages in Hercules
Holding remaining above a specified percentage of the
outstanding ownership interests in Hercules Holding.

The LLC Agreement also requires that, in addition to a majority
of the total number of managers being present to constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business at any board or committee
meeting, at least one manager designated by each of the
Investors must be present, unless waived by that Investor. The
LLC Agreement further provides that, for so long as at least two
Sponsors are entitled to designate managers to Hercules
Holding’s board, at least one manager from each of two
Sponsors must consent to any board or committee action in order
for it to be valid. The LLC Agreement requires that our
organizational and governing documents contain provisions
similar to those described in this paragraph.

Registration Rights Agreement

Hercules Holding and the Investors entered into a registration
rights agreement with us upon completion of the
Recapitalization. Pursuant to this agreement, the Investors can
cause us to register shares of our common stock held by Hercules
Holding under the Securities Act and, if requested, to maintain
a shelf registration statement effective with respect to such
shares. The Investors are also entitled to participate on a pro
rata basis in any registration of our common stock under the
Securities Act that we may undertake.



Sponsor Management Agreement

In connection with the Merger, we entered into a management
agreement with affiliates of each of the Sponsors and certain
members of the Frist family, including Thomas F.
Frist, Jr., M.D. and Thomas F. Frist III,
pursuant to which such entities or their affiliates will provide
management services to us. Pursuant to the agreement, we paid
aggregate transaction fees of approximately $175 million in
connection with services provided by such entities in connection
with the Merger and related transactions. In addition, we will
pay an aggregate annual management fee of $15 million,
which amount increases annually beginning in 2008 at a rate
equal to the percentage increase of Adjusted EBITDA (as defined
in the Management Agreement) in the applicable year compared to
the preceding year, and will reimburse

out-of

-pocket expenses
incurred in connection with the provision of services pursuant
to the agreement. The agreement also provides that we will pay a
one percent fee in connection with certain subsequent financing,
acquisition, disposition and change of control transactions, as
well as a termination fee based on the net present value of
future payment obligations under the management agreement, in
the event of an initial public offering or under certain other
circumstances. The agreement includes customary exculpation and
indemnification provisions in favor of the Sponsors and their
affiliates and the Frists.

Other Relationships

On February 6, 2006, we issued $1.0 billion of 6.500%
notes due 2016. Merrill Lynch & Co., along with other
institutions, served as joint book-running manager in connection
with the issuance of those notes. The institutions involved in
the underwriting of the notes received an aggregate underwriting
discount of 1.125%, or $11,250,000, in consideration of their
services in that capacity, of which $400,000 was paid to Merrill
Lynch & Co.

On May 25, 2006, the Company entered into a Credit
Agreement with the several banks and other financial
institutions from time to time parties thereto, Merrill Lynch
& Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
Incorporated, as sole lead arranger and sole bookrunner
(“MLPFS”), and Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation, as
administrative agent (“MLCC”). The Credit Agreement
was for an aggregate principal amount of $400 million, had a one
year term and contained terms and conditions similar to our
previous credit agreements. MLPFS received a commitment fee of
$400,000 with respect to the Credit Agreement. In connection
with the Merger, on November 17, 2006, the Company repaid
in full all amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement. No
penalties were due in connection with such repayments.

Effective July 1, 2006, we sold four hospitals (three in
West Virginia and one in Virginia) to LifePoint Hospitals, Inc.
for consideration of $256 million. Merrill Lynch &
Co. acted as our financial advisor in respect of the transaction
and, upon closing of the sale, we paid a fee of
$2.1 million in respect of those services.

In connection with the Merger, on November 17, 2006, we
issued $5.7 billion of senior secured notes due 2016.
Merrill Lynch & Co., along with other institutions, served
as joint book-running manager in connection with the issuance of
those notes. The institutions involved in the underwriting of
the notes received an aggregate underwriting discount of 2.0%,
or $114 million, in consideration of their services in that
capacity, of which $13.3 million was paid to Merrill Lynch &
Co.

Also in connection with the Merger, on November 17, 2006,
we entered into (i) a $2.0 billion senior secured
asset-based revolving loan agreement, and (ii) a new senior
secured credit agreement, consisting of a $2.0 billion
revolving credit facility, a $2.75 billion term
loan A, a $8.8 billion term loan B and a

€

1.0 billion
term loan. Obligations under the senior secured credit
facilities are guaranteed by all of our material, unrestricted
wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, borrowings
under the

€

1.0 billion
term loan are guaranteed by all of our material, wholly-owned
European subsidiaries. MLPFS, along with other institutions,
served as joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner and MLCC
served as documentation agent with respect to the senior secured
credit facilities. We paid a commitment fee of 1.5% with respect
to the senior secured credit facilities, or approximately
$252 million in the aggregate, of which MLPFS received
$36.4 million.



Merrill Lynch & Co., MLPFS and MLCC are affiliates of
certain funds which hold substantial interests in Hercules
Holding and of Christopher J. Birosak, George A. Bitar and
Nathan C. Thorne, who serve on our Board of Directors.

In 2006, we paid approximately $24.4 million to Health Care
Property Investors, Inc. (“HCPI”), representing the
aggregate annual lease payments for certain medical office
buildings leased by the Company. Charles A. Elcan is an
executive officer of HCPI and is the

son-in

-law and

brother-in

-law of
Dr. Thomas F. Frist, Jr. and Thomas F.
Frist, III, respectively, who are members of our Board of
Directors.

In 2006, two hospitals owned and operated by affiliates of HCA
were party to a professional medical services agreement with
Commonwealth Perinatal Associates, P.C. (“Commonwealth
Perinatal”). The total fees paid to Commonwealth Perinatal
by HCA pursuant to the agreement in consideration of services
provided in 2006 totaled $300,000. Dr. Rodrick Love is
employed by Commonwealth Perinatal and is the

son-in

-law of
Dr. Frank S. Royal, one of our former directors prior to
the consummation of the Merger.

Christopher S. George serves as the chief executive officer of
an HCA-affiliated hospital, and in 2006, Mr. George
received total compensation in respect of base salary and bonus
of approximately $400,000 for his services. Mr. George also
received certain other benefits, including awards of equity,
customary to similar positions within the Company.
Mr. George’s father, V. Carl George, is an executive
officer of HCA.

Director Independence

Our Board of Directors is composed of Jack O.
Bovender, Jr., Chairman, Christopher J. Birosak, George A.
Bitar, Richard M. Bracken, John P. Connaughton, Thomas F.
Frist, Jr., M.D., Thomas F. Frist III,
Christopher R. Gordon, Michael W. Michelson, James C. Momtazee,
Stephen G. Pagliuca, Peter M. Stavros and Nathan C. Thorne. Our
Board of Directors currently has four standing committees: the
Audit and Compliance Committee, the Compensation Committee, the
Executive Committee and the Patient Safety and Quality of Care
Committee. Each of the Investors has the right to have at least
one director serve on all standing committees.

*

Indicates management director.

Though not formally considered by our Board because our common
stock is no longer registered with the SEC or traded on any
national securities exchange, based upon the listing standards
of the NYSE, the national securities exchange upon which our
common stock was traded prior to the Merger, we do not believe
that any of our directors would be considered
“independent” because of their relationships with
certain affiliates of the funds and other entities which hold
significant interests in Hercules Holding, which owns



approximately 97.5% of our outstanding common stock, and other
relationships with us. See “Certain Relationships and
Related Transactions.” Accordingly, we do not believe that
any of Messrs. Birosak, Frist, Gordon or Momtazee, the
members of our Audit and Compliance committee, would meet the
independence requirements or
Rule

10A-1

of the
Exchange Act or the NYSE’s audit committee independence
requirements, or that Messrs. Michelson, Bitar, Connaughton
or Frist, the members of our Compensation Committee, would meet
the NYSE’s independence requirements. We do not have a
nominating/corporate governance committee, or a committee that
serves a similar purpose.

Item 14.

Principal Accountant Fees and Services

The Audit and Compliance Committee has appointed
Ernst & Young LLP as our independent registered public
accounting firm. The independent registered public accounting
firm will audit our consolidated financial statements for 2007
and management’s assessment as to whether the Company
maintained effective controls over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2007.

Audit Fees.

The aggregate audit fees billed by
Ernst & Young LLP for professional services rendered
for the audit of our annual consolidated financial statements,
for the reviews of the condensed consolidated financial
statements included in our quarterly reports on
Form

10-Q,

for the
audit of management’s report on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting, under
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and services that are normally
provided by the independent registered public accounting firm in
connection with statutory and regulatory filings totaled
$9.0 million for 2006 and $8.8 million for 2005.

Audit-Related Fees.

The aggregate fees billed by
Ernst & Young LLP for assurance and related services
not described above under “Audit Fees” were
$1.5 million for both 2006 and 2005. Audit-related services
principally include audits of certain of our subsidiaries and
benefit plans.

Tax Fees.

The aggregate fees billed by Ernst &
Young LLP for professional services rendered for tax compliance,
tax advice and tax planning were $1.6 million for 2006 and
$2.1 million for 2005.

All Other Fees.

The aggregate fees billed by
Ernst & Young LLP for products or services other than
those described above were $79,000 for 2006 and $227,000 for
2005.

The Board of Directors has adopted an Audit and Compliance
Committee Charter which, among other things, requires the Audit
and Compliance Committee to preapprove all audit and permitted
nonaudit services (including the fees and terms thereof) to be
performed for us by our independent registered public accounting
firm.

All services performed for us by Ernst & Young LLP in
2006 were preapproved by the Audit and Compliance Committee. The
Audit and Compliance Committee concluded that the provision of
audit-related services, tax services and other services by
Ernst & Young LLP was compatible with the maintenance
of the firm’s independence in the conduct of its auditing
functions. Our preapproval policy provides that the Audit and
Compliance Committee shall preapprove nonaudit services and
audit-related services. Any decisions to preapprove any services
shall be presented to the Audit and Compliance Committee at its
next scheduled meeting.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a)

Documents filed as
part of the report:

1.

Financial Statements.

The accompanying Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page F-1 of this Annual
Report on
Form

10-K

is
provided in response to this item.

2.

List of Financial Statement Schedules.

All
schedules are omitted because the required information is either
not present, not present in material amounts or presented within
the consolidated financial statements.

3.

List of Exhibits











*

Management compensatory plan or arrangement.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

HCA INC.

By:

/s/

Jack O.
    Bovender, Jr.

Jack O. Bovender, Jr.

Chief Executive Officer

Dated: March 27, 2007

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.





HCA INC.

INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

F-1


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

HCA Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
HCA Inc. as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related
consolidated statements of income, stockholders’ (deficit)
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 2006. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
financial position of HCA Inc. at December 31, 2006 and
2005, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2006, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company adopted the provisions of FASB Staff
Position No.

45-3,

“Application of FASB Interpretation No. 45 to Minimum
Revenue Guarantees Granted to a Business or its Owners” and
FASB Statement No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting
for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an
amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
132(R)” on January 1, 2006. Also, as discussed in
Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2006 the Company adopted the provisions of FASB
Statement No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment.”

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
effectiveness of HCA Inc.’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria
established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission, and our report dated March 22, 2007
expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Nashville, Tennessee

March 22, 2007

F-2


HCA INC.

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004

(Dollars in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

F-3


HCA INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

DECEMBER 31, 2006 AND 2005

(Dollars in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

F-4


HCA INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ (DEFICIT)
EQUITY

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004

(Dollars in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

F-5


HCA INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006, 2005 AND 2004

(Dollars in millions)

The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated
financial statements.

F-6


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE 1 — ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Merger, Recapitalization and Reporting Entity

On November 17, 2006 HCA Inc. (the “Company”)
completed its merger (the “Merger”) with Hercules
Acquisition Corporation (the “Merger Sub”) pursuant to
which the Company was acquired by a private investor group,
including affiliates of Bain Capital, Kohlberg Kravis
Roberts & Co., Merrill Lynch Global Private Equity
(each a “Sponsor”), entities associated with HCA
founder, Dr. Thomas F. Frist Jr., (the “Frist
Entities,” and together with the Sponsors, the
“Investors”) and certain members of management. The
Merger, the financing transactions related to the Merger and
other related transactions are collectively referred to in this
annual report as the “Recapitalization.” The Merger
has been accounted for as a recapitalization in HCA’s
financial statements, with no adjustments to the historical
basis of HCA’s assets and liabilities. As a result of the
Recapitalization, our outstanding capital stock is owned by the
Investors, certain members of management and key employees and
certain other investors. Our common stock is no longer
registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
“SEC”) and is no longer traded on a national
securities exchange.

HCA Inc. is a holding company whose affiliates own and operate
hospitals and related health care entities. The term
“affiliates” includes direct and indirect subsidiaries
of HCA Inc. and partnerships and joint ventures in which such
subsidiaries are partners. At December 31, 2006, these
affiliates owned and operated 166 hospitals, 98 freestanding
surgery centers and provided extensive outpatient and ancillary
services. Affiliates of HCA are also partners in joint ventures
that own and operate seven hospitals and nine freestanding
surgery centers, which are accounted for using the equity
method. The Company’s facilities are located in
20 states, England and Switzerland. The terms
“HCA,” “Company,” “we,”
“our” or “us,” as used in this annual report
on Form

10-K,

refer to HCA Inc. and its affiliates unless otherwise stated or
indicated by context.

Basis of Presentation

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported
in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The consolidated financial statements include all subsidiaries
and entities controlled by HCA. We generally define
“control” as ownership of a majority of the voting
interest of an entity. The consolidated financial statements
include entities in which we absorb a majority of the
entity’s expected losses, receive a majority of the
entity’s expected residual returns, or both, as a result of
ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the
entity. Significant intercompany transactions have been
eliminated. Investments in entities that we do not control, but
in which we have a substantial ownership interest and can
exercise significant influence, are accounted for using the
equity method.

We have completed various acquisitions and joint venture
transactions. The accounts of these entities have been included
in our consolidated financial statements for periods subsequent
to our acquisition of controlling interests. The majority of our
expenses are “cost of revenue” items. Costs that could
be classified as general and administrative include the
corporate office costs, which were $187 million,
$185 million and $162 million for the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

Revenues

Revenues consist primarily of net patient service revenues that
are recorded based upon established billing rates less
allowances for contractual adjustments. Revenues are recorded
during the period the health care services are provided, based
upon the estimated amounts due from the patients and third-party
payers. Third-party payers include federal and state agencies
(under the Medicare and Medicaid programs), managed

F-7


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 1 — ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Revenues (Continued)

care health plans, commercial insurance companies and employers.
Estimates of contractual allowances under managed care health
plans are based upon the payment terms specified in the related
contractual agreements. Contractual payment terms in managed
care agreements are generally based upon predetermined rates per
diagnosis, per diem rates or discounted fee-for-service rates.

Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid
programs are complex and subject to interpretation. As a result,
there is at least a reasonable possibility that recorded
estimates will change by a material amount. The estimated
reimbursement amounts are adjusted in subsequent periods as cost
reports are prepared and filed and as final settlements are
determined (in relation to certain government programs,
primarily Medicare, this is generally referred to as the
“cost report” filing and settlement process). The
adjustments to estimated reimbursement amounts, which resulted
in net increases to revenues, related to cost reports filed
during the respective year were $55 million,
$49 million and $44 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. The adjustments to estimated reimbursement
amounts, which resulted in net increases to revenues, related to
cost reports filed during previous years were $62 million,
$36 million and $26 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

The Emergency Medical Treatment and Active Labor Act
(“EMTALA”) requires any hospital that participates in
the Medicare program to conduct an appropriate medical screening
examination of every person who presents to the hospital’s
emergency room for treatment and, if the individual is suffering
from an emergency medical condition, to either stabilize that
condition or make an appropriate transfer of the individual to a
facility that can handle the condition. The obligation to screen
and stabilize emergency medical conditions exists regardless of
an individual’s ability to pay for treatment. Federal and
state laws and regulations, including but not limited to EMTALA,
require, and our commitment to providing quality patient care
encourages, us to provide services to patients who are
financially unable to pay for the health care services they
receive. Because we do not pursue collection of amounts
determined to qualify as charity care, they are not reported in
revenues. Patients treated at hospitals for nonelective care,
who have income at or below 200% of the federal poverty level,
are eligible for charity care. The federal poverty level is
established by the federal government and is based on income and
family size. On January 1, 2005, we modified our policies
to provide a discount to uninsured patients who do not qualify
for Medicaid or charity care. These discounts are similar to
those provided to many local managed care plans. In implementing
the discount policy, we first attempt to qualify uninsured
patients for Medicaid, other federal or state assistance or
charity care. If an uninsured patient does not qualify for these
programs, the uninsured discount is applied.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include highly liquid investments with
a maturity of three months or less when purchased. Our insurance
subsidiary’s cash equivalent investments in excess of the
amounts required to pay estimated professional liability claims
during the next twelve months are not included in cash and cash
equivalents as these funds are not available for general
corporate purposes. Carrying values of cash and cash equivalents
approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of these
instruments.

Our cash management system provides for daily investment of
available balances and the funding of outstanding checks when
presented for payment. Outstanding, but unpresented, checks
totaling $429 million and $493 million at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, have been
included in accounts payable in the consolidated balance sheets.
Upon presentation for payment, these checks are funded through
available cash balances or our credit facility.

F-8


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 1 — ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Accounts Receivable

We receive payments for services rendered from federal and state
agencies (under the Medicare and Medicaid programs), managed
care health plans, commercial insurance companies, employers and
patients. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004, approximately 26%, 27% and 28%, respectively, of our
revenues related to patients participating in the Medicare
program. We recognize that revenues and receivables from
government agencies are significant to our operations, but do
not believe there are significant credit risks associated with
these government agencies. We do not believe there are any other
significant concentrations of revenues from any particular payer
that would subject us to any significant credit risks in the
collection of our accounts receivable.

Additions to the allowance for doubtful accounts are made by
means of the provision for doubtful accounts. Accounts written
off as uncollectable are deducted from the allowance for
doubtful accounts and subsequent recoveries are added. The
amount of the provision for doubtful accounts is based upon
management’s assessment of historical and expected net
collections, business and economic conditions, trends in
federal, state and private employer health care coverage and
other collection indicators. The provision for doubtful accounts
and the allowance for doubtful accounts relate primarily to
“uninsured” amounts (including copayment and
deductible amounts from patients who have health care coverage)
due directly from patients. Accounts are written off when all
reasonable internal and external collection efforts have been
performed. We consider the return of an account from the primary
external collection agency to be the culmination of our
reasonable collection efforts and the timing basis for writing
off the account balance. Writeoffs are based upon specific
identification and the writeoff process requires a writeoff
adjustment entry to the patient accounting system. Management
relies on the results of detailed reviews of historical
writeoffs and recoveries at facilities that represent a majority
of our revenues and accounts receivable (the “hindsight
analysis”) as a primary source of information to utilize in
estimating the collectability of our accounts receivable. We
perform the hindsight analysis quarterly, utilizing rolling
twelve-months accounts receivable collection and writeoff data.
At December 31, 2006, our allowance for doubtful accounts
represented approximately 86% of the $3.972 billion patient
due accounts receivable balance, including accounts, net of
estimated contractual discounts, related to patients for which
eligibility for Medicaid coverage was being evaluated
(“pending Medicaid accounts”). At December 31,
2005, our allowance for doubtful accounts represented
approximately 85% of the $3.404 billion patient due
accounts receivable balance, including net pending Medicaid
accounts. Revenue days in accounts receivable were 53 days,
50 days and 48 days at December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004, respectively. Adverse changes in general economic
conditions, patient accounting service center operations, payer
mix, or trends in federal or state governmental health care
coverage could affect our collection of accounts receivable,
cash flows and results of operations.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost

(first-in,

first-out)
or market.

Property and Equipment and Amortizable Intangibles

Depreciation expense, computed using the straight-line method,
was $1.384 billion in 2006, $1.371 billion in 2005,
and $1.248 billion in 2004. Buildings and improvements are
depreciated over estimated useful lives ranging generally from
10 to 40 years. Estimated useful lives of equipment vary
generally from four to 10 years.

Debt issuance costs are amortized based upon the terms of the
respective debt obligations. The gross carrying amount of
deferred loan costs at December 31, 2006 and 2005 was
$668 million and $138 million, respectively, and
accumulated amortization was $54 million and
$53 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,

F-9


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 1 — ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Property and Equipment and
Amortizable Intangibles (Continued)

respectively. Amortization of deferred loan costs is included in
interest expense and was $18 million, $14 million and
$14 million for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.

When events, circumstances or operating results indicate that
the carrying values of certain long-lived assets and related
identifiable intangible assets (excluding goodwill) that are
expected to be held and used, might be impaired, we prepare
projections of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to
result from the use of the assets and their eventual
disposition. If the projections indicate that the recorded
amounts are not expected to be recoverable, such amounts are
reduced to estimated fair value. Fair value may be estimated
based upon internal evaluations that include quantitative
analyses of revenues and cash flows, reviews of recent sales of
similar facilities and independent appraisals.

Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of
their carrying amounts or fair value less costs to sell or
close. The estimates of fair value are usually based upon recent
sales of similar assets and market responses based upon
discussions with and offers received from potential buyers.

Investments of Insurance Subsidiary

At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the investments of our
wholly-owned insurance subsidiary were classified as
“available-for-sale” as defined in Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, “Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” and
are recorded at fair value. The investment securities are held
for the purpose of providing the funding source to pay
professional liability claims covered by the insurance
subsidiary. Management performs a quarterly assessment of
individual investment securities to determine whether declines
in market value are temporary or other-than-temporary.
Management’s investment securities evaluation process
involves multiple subjective judgments, often involves
estimating the outcome of future events, and requires a
significant level of professional judgment in determining
whether an impairment has occurred. We evaluate, among other
things, the financial position and near term prospects of the
issuer, conditions in the issuer’s industry, liquidity of
the investment, changes in the amount or timing of expected
future cash flows from the investment, and recent downgrades of
the issuer by a rating agency, to determine if, and when, a
decline in the fair value of an investment below amortized cost
is considered other-than-temporary. The length of time and
extent to which the fair value of the investment is less than
amortized cost and our ability and intent to retain the
investment, to allow for any anticipated recovery of the
investment’s fair value, are important components of
management’s investment securities evaluation process.

Goodwill

Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to annual impairment
tests. In addition to the annual impairment reviews, impairment
reviews are performed whenever circumstances indicate a possible
impairment may exist. Impairment testing for goodwill is done at
the reporting unit level. Reporting units are one level below
the business segment level, and our impairment testing is
performed at the operating division or market level. We compare
the fair value of the reporting unit assets to the carrying
amount, on at least an annual basis, to determine if there is
potential impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit
assets is less than their carrying value, we compare the fair
value of the goodwill to its carrying value. If the fair value
of the goodwill is less than its carrying value, an impairment
loss is recognized. Fair value of goodwill is estimated based
upon internal evaluations of the related long-lived assets for
each reporting unit that include quantitative analyses of
revenues and cash flows and reviews of recent sales of similar
facilities. No goodwill impairment losses were recognized during
2006, 2005 or 2004.

F-10


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 1 — ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Goodwill (Continued)

During 2006, goodwill increased by $38 million related to
acquisitions, decreased by $86 million related to facility
sales and increased by $23 million related to foreign
currency translation and other adjustments. During 2005,
goodwill increased by $129 million related to acquisitions,
decreased by $35 million related to facility sales and
decreased by $8 million related to foreign currency
translation and other adjustments.

Physician Recruiting Agreements

In order to recruit physicians to meet the needs of our
hospitals and the communities they serve, we enter into minimum
revenue guarantee arrangements to assist the recruited
physicians during the period they are relocating and
establishing their practices. In November 2005, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued FASB
Staff Position
No.

45-3,

“Application of FASB Interpretation No. 45 to Minimum
Revenue Guarantees Granted to a Business or Its Owners”
(“FSP
FIN

45-3”).

Under FSP
FIN

45-3,

a
guarantor is required to recognize, at the inception of a
guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the stand-ready
obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee.

FSP FIN

45-3

is
effective for minimum revenue guarantees issued or modified on
or after January 1, 2006. For periods before
January 1, 2006, we expensed physician recruitment
agreement amounts as the expenses to be reimbursed were incurred
by the recruited physicians, which was generally over a
12 month period. For 2006 minimum revenue guarantees, we
have expensed the total estimated guarantee liability amount at
the time the physician recruiting agreement becomes effective.
We determined that expensing the total estimated liability
amount at the agreement effective date was the proper accounting
treatment as we could not justify recording a contract-based
asset based upon our analysis of the related control, regulatory
and legal considerations.

The physician recruiting liability of $14 million at
December 31, 2006 represents the amount of expense
recognized in excess of estimated payments made through
December 31, 2006. At December 31, 2006 the maximum
amount of all effective, post January 1, 2006 minimum
revenue guarantees that could be paid prospectively was
$51 million.

Professional Liability Claims

A substantial portion of our professional liability risks is
insured through a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary. Reserves
for professional liability risks were $1.584 billion and
$1.621 billion at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively. The current portion of the reserves,
$275 million and $285 million at December 31,
2006 and 2005, respectively, is included in “other accrued
expenses” in the consolidated balance sheet. Provisions for
losses related to professional liability risks were
$217 million, $298 million and $291 million for
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively, and are included in “other operating
expenses” in our consolidated income statement. Provisions
for losses related to professional liability risks are based
upon actuarially determined estimates. Loss and loss expense
reserves represent the estimated ultimate net cost of all
reported and unreported losses incurred through the respective
consolidated balance sheet dates. The reserves for unpaid losses
and loss expenses are estimated using individual case-basis
valuations and actuarial analyses. Those estimates are subject
to the effects of trends in loss severity and frequency. The
estimates are continually reviewed and adjustments are recorded
as experience develops or new information becomes known.
Adjustments to the estimated reserve amounts are included in
current operating results. The provision for losses for 2006,
2005 and 2004 include reductions of $136 million,
$83 million and $59 million, respectively, to our
estimated professional liability reserves. The amounts of the
changes to the estimated professional liability reserves were
determined based upon the semiannual, independent actuarial
analyses,

F-11


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 1 — ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Professional Liability Claims
(Continued)

which recognized declining frequency and moderating severity
claims trends at our facilities. We believe these favorable
trends are primarily attributable to tort reforms enacted in key
states, particularly Texas, and our risk management and patient
safety initiatives, particularly in the areas of obstetrics and
emergency services. The reserves for professional liability
risks cover approximately 3,000 and 3,300 individual claims at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and estimates for
unreported potential claims. The time period required to resolve
these claims can vary depending upon the jurisdiction and
whether the claim is settled or litigated. During 2006 and 2005,
$253 million and $242 million, respectively, of
payments (net of reinsurance recoveries of $5 million and
$12 million, respectively) were made for professional and
general liability claims. The estimation of the timing of
payments beyond a year can vary significantly. Although
considerable variability is inherent in professional liability
reserve estimates, management believes that the reserves for
losses and loss expenses are adequate; however, there can be no
assurance that the ultimate liability will not exceed
management’s estimates.

Our facilities are insured by our wholly-owned insurance
subsidiary for losses up to $50 million per occurrence. The
insurance subsidiary has obtained reinsurance for professional
liability risks generally above a retention level of
$15 million per occurrence. We also maintain professional
liability insurance with unrelated commercial carriers for
losses in excess of amounts insured by our insurance subsidiary.
Effective January 1, 2007, our facilities will generally be
self-insured for the first $5 million of per occurrence
losses.

The obligations covered by reinsurance contracts are included in
the reserves for professional liability risks, as the subsidiary
remains liable to the extent that the reinsurers do not meet
their obligations under the reinsurance contracts. The amounts
receivable under the reinsurance contracts of $42 million
and $43 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, are included in other assets (including
$10 million and $25 million December 31, 2006 and
2005, respectively, included in other current assets). A return
of premiums relating to reinsurance contracts resulted in a net
increase to the reserves for professional liability risks of
$8 million during 2005.

Financial Instruments

Derivative financial instruments are employed to manage risks,
including foreign currency and interest rate exposures, and are
not used for trading or speculative purposes. We recognize
derivative instruments, such as interest rate swap agreements
and foreign exchange contracts, in the consolidated balance
sheets at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives
are recognized periodically either in earnings or in
stockholders’ equity, as a component of other comprehensive
income, depending on whether the derivative financial instrument
qualifies for hedge accounting, and if so, whether it qualifies
as a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. Generally, changes
in fair values of derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges
are recorded in earnings, along with the changes in the fair
value of the hedged items that relate to the hedged risk. Gains
and losses on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, to the
extent they are effective, are recorded in other comprehensive
income, and subsequently reclassified to earnings to offset the
impact of the hedged items when they occur. In the event the
forecasted transaction to which a cash flow hedge relates is no
longer likely, the amount in other comprehensive income is
recognized in earnings and generally the derivative is
terminated. Changes in the fair value of derivatives used as
hedges of the net investment in foreign operations are reported
in other comprehensive income. Changes in the fair value of
derivatives not qualifying as hedges, and for any portion of a
hedge that is ineffective, are reported in earnings.

The net interest paid or received on interest rate swaps is
recognized as interest expense. Gains and losses resulting from
the early termination of interest rate swap agreements are
deferred and amortized as

F-12


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 1 — ACCOUNTING POLICIES (Continued)

Financial Instruments
(Continued)

adjustments to interest expense over the remaining period of the
debt originally covered by the terminated swap.

Minority Interests in Consolidated Entities

The consolidated financial statements include all assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses of less than 100% owned
entities that we control. Accordingly, we have recorded minority
interests in the earnings and equity of such entities.

Recent Pronouncements

In July 2006, the FASB issued the final Interpretation
No. 48, “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes” (“FIN 48”). FIN 48 creates a
single model to address uncertainty in income tax positions and
clarifies the accounting for income taxes by prescribing the
minimum recognition threshold a tax position is required to meet
before being recognized in the financial statements. It also
provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification,
interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods,
disclosure and transition. FIN 48 applies to all tax
positions related to income taxes subject to FASB Statement
No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.”
FIN 48 requires expanded disclosures, which include a
tabular rollforward of the beginning and ending aggregate
unrecognized tax benefits, as well as specific detail related to
tax uncertainties for which it is reasonably possible the amount
of unrecognized tax benefit will significantly increase or
decrease within twelve months. These disclosures will be
required at each annual reporting period unless a significant
change occurs in an interim period. FIN 48 is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. Differences
between the amounts recognized in the statements of financial
position prior to the adoption of FIN 48 and the amounts
recognized after adoption will be accounted for as a cumulative
effect adjustment recorded to the beginning balance of retained
earnings. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting
FIN 48.

During September 2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 158,
“Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R)”
(“SFAS 158”). SFAS 158 represents the
completion of the first phase in the FASB’s postretirement
benefits accounting project and requires an entity to: recognize
in its balance sheet an asset for a defined benefit
postretirement plan’s overfunded status or a liability for
a plan’s underfunded status; measure a defined benefit
postretirement plan’s assets and obligations that determine
its funded status as of the end of the employer’s fiscal
year; and recognize changes in the funded status of a defined
benefit postretirement plan in comprehensive income in the year
in which the changes occur. SFAS 158 does not change the
amount of net periodic benefit cost included in results of
operations. On December 31, 2006, we adopted the
recognition and disclosure provisions of SFAS 158. The
effect of adopting SFAS 158 on financial condition at
December 31, 2006 has been included in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements. SFAS 158 did not have an
effect on our consolidated financial condition at
December 31, 2005 or for prior periods.

Reclassifications

Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to
the 2006 presentation.

NOTE 2 — MERGER AND RECAPITALIZATION

On July 24, 2006, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of
Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Hercules
Holding II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
(“Hercules Holding”), and Hercules

F-13


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 2 — MERGER AND RECAPITALIZATION
(Continued)

Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Hercules Holding. Our board of
directors approved the Merger Agreement on the unanimous
recommendation of a special committee comprised entirely of
disinterested directors. The Merger was approved by a majority
of HCA’s shareholders at a special meeting of shareholders
held on November 16, 2006.

On November 17, 2006, pursuant to the terms of the Merger
Agreement, the Investors consummated the acquisition of the
Company through the merger of Merger Sub with and into the
Company. The Company was the surviving corporation in the
Merger. Approximately 98% of our common stock is owned directly
by Hercules Holding, with the remainder being owned by certain
members of management of the Company. Affiliates of each of the
Sponsors indirectly own approximately 25% of the common stock of
the Company through their ownership in Hercules Holding, and
affiliates of the Frist Entities and certain coinvestors
directly and indirectly own approximately 20% of the common
stock of the Company through direct ownership and through their
ownership in Hercules Holding. On the effective date of the
Merger, each outstanding share of HCA common stock, other than
shares contributed by the rollover shareholders or shares owned
by HCA, Merger Sub or any shareholders who were entitled to
appraisal rights, were cancelled and converted into the right to
receive $51.00 in cash. The aggregate purchase price paid for
all of the equity securities of the Company was
$20.364 billion, which purchase price was funded by
$3.782 billion of equity contributions from the Investors,
certain members of management and certain other coinvestors and
by incurring $19.964 billion of indebtedness through bank
credit facilities and the issuance of debt securities.

The Recapitalization transactions included retaining
$7.750 billion of the Company’s existing indebtedness,
the retirement of $3.182 billion of the Company’s
existing indebtedness and the payment of $745 million of
Recapitalization related fees and expenses.

Rollover and Stockholder Agreements And Equity Securities
    with Contingent Redemption Rights

In connection with the Merger, the Frist Entities and certain
members of our management entered into agreements with the
Company and/or Hercules Holding, pursuant to which they elected
to invest in the Company, as the surviving corporation in the
Merger, through a rollover of employee stock options, a rollover
of shares of common stock of the Company, or a combination
thereof. Pursuant to the rollover agreements the Frist Entities
and management team made rollover investments of
$885 million and $125 million, respectively.

The stockholder agreements, among other things, contain
agreements among the parties with respect to restrictions on the
transfer of shares, including tag along rights and drag along
rights, registration rights (including customary indemnification
provisions) and other rights. Pursuant to the management
stockholder agreements, the applicable employees can elect to
have the Company redeem their common stock and vested stock
options in the events of death or permanent disability, prior to
the consummation of the initial public offering of common stock
by the Company. At December 31, 2006, 727,600 common shares
and 2,285,200 vested stock options were subject to these
contingent redemption terms.

Management Agreement

Affiliates of the Investors entered into a management agreement
with us pursuant to which such affiliates will provide us with
management services. Under the management agreement, the
affiliates of the Investors are entitled to receive an aggregate
annual management fee of $15 million, which amount will
increase annually beginning in 2008 at a rate equal to the
percentage increase in our “EBITDA” in the applicable
year compared to the preceding year, and reimbursement of

out-of

-pocket expenses
incurred in connection with the provision of services pursuant
to the agreement. The management agreement has an initial term
expiring on December 31, 2016, provided that the term will
be extended annually for one additional year unless we or the
Investors provide notice to the other of their desire not to
automatically extend the term. The management

F-14


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 2 — MERGER AND RECAPITALIZATION
(Continued)

Management Agreement
(Continued)

agreement provided that affiliates of the Investors receive
aggregate transaction fees of $175 million in connection
with certain services provided in connection with the Merger and
related transactions. In addition, the management agreement
provides that the affiliates of the Investors will be entitled
to receive a fee equal to 1% of the gross transaction value in
connection with certain subsequent financing, acquisition,
disposition, and change of control transactions, as well as a
termination fee based on the net present value of future payment
obligations under the management agreement in the event of an
initial public offering or under certain other circumstances.
The agreement also contains customary exculpation and
indemnification provisions in favor of the Investors and their
affiliates.

Recapitalization Transaction Costs

For the year ended December 31, 2006, our results of
operations include the following charges related to the
Recapitalization (dollars in millions):

Compensation expense related to accelerated vesting of stock
    options and restricted stock, and other employee benefits

$


Consulting, legal, accounting and other transaction costs


Loss on extinguishment of debt


Total

$


In addition to these amounts, approximately $77 million of
transaction costs were recorded directly to shareholders’
deficit, and an additional $568 million of transaction
costs were capitalized as deferred loan costs.

NOTE 3 — SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION

Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R),
“Share-Based Payment” (“SFAS 123(R)”),
using the modified prospective application transition method.
Under this method, compensation cost is recognized, beginning
January 1, 2006, based on the requirements of
SFAS 123(R) for all share-based awards granted after the
effective date, and based on Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” (“SFAS 123”), for all awards
granted to employees prior to January 1, 2006 that were
unvested on the effective date. Prior to January 1, 2006,
we applied Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees”
(“APB 25”) and related interpretations in
accounting for our employee stock benefit plans. Accordingly, no
compensation cost was recognized for stock options granted under
the plans because the exercise prices for options granted were
equal to the quoted market prices on the option grant dates and
all option grants were to employees or directors. Results for
periods prior to January 1, 2006 have not been restated.

As a result of adopting SFAS 123(R), income before taxes
for the year ended December 31, 2006 was lower by
$78 million ($48 million after tax), than if we had
continued to account for share-based compensation under
APB 25. Upon consummation of the Merger, all outstanding
stock options (other than certain options held by certain
rollover shareholders) became fully vested, were cancelled and
converted into the right to receive a cash payment equal to the
number of shares underlying the options multiplied by the amount
(if any) by which $51.00 exceeded the option exercise price. The
acceleration of vesting of stock options resulted in the
recognition of $42 million of additional share-based
compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Certain management holders of outstanding HCA stock options were
permitted to retain certain of their stock options (the
“Rollover Options”) in lieu of receiving the merger
consideration

F-15


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 3 — SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
(Continued)

(the amount, if any, by which $51.00 exceeded the option
exercise price). The Rollover Options remain outstanding in
accordance with the terms of the governing stock incentive plans
and grant agreements pursuant to which the holder originally
received the stock option grants. However, immediately after the
Recapitalization, the exercise price and number of shares
subject to the rollover option agreement were adjusted so that
the aggregate intrinsic value for each applicable option holder
was maintained and the exercise price for substantially all the
options was adjusted to $12.75 per option. Pursuant to the
rollover option agreement, 10,967,500 prerecapitalization HCA
stock options were converted into 2,285,200 Rollover Options.

SFAS 123(R) requires that the benefits of tax deductions in
excess of amounts recognized as compensation cost be reported as
a financing cash flow, rather than an operating cash flow, as
required under prior accounting guidance. Tax benefits of
$97 million from tax deductions in excess of amounts
recognized as compensation cost were reported as financing cash
flows in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to
$163 million and $50 million being reported as
operating cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005
and 2004, respectively.

For periods prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R),
SFAS 123 required us to determine pro forma net income as
if compensation cost for our employee stock option and stock
purchase plans had been determined based upon fair values at the
grant dates. These pro forma amounts for the years ended
December 31, 2005 and 2004 are as follows (dollars in
millions):



Net income:

As reported

$

1,424

$

1,246

Share-based employee compensation expense determined under a
    fair value method, net of income taxes



(a)

Pro forma

$

1,401

$

1,055

(a)

In December 2004, we accelerated the vesting of all unvested
    stock options awarded to employees and officers which had
    exercise prices greater than the closing price at
    December 14, 2004 of $40.89 per share. Options to
    purchase approximately 19.1 million shares became
    exercisable immediately as a result of the vesting acceleration.
    The effect of accelerating the vesting for the 19.1 million
    shares was an increase to the pro forma share-based compensation
    expense for the year ended December 31, 2004 of
    $112 million after-tax. The decision to accelerate vesting
    of the identified stock options resulted in us not being
    required to recognize share-based compensation expense, net of
    taxes, of approximately $57 million in 2006. The
    elimination of the requirement to recognize compensation expense
    in future periods related to the unvested stock options was
    management’s basis for the decision to accelerate the
    vesting.

During the year ended December 31, 2006, we had the
following share-based compensation plans:

2006 Stock Incentive Plan

In connection with the Recapitalization, the 2006 Stock
Incentive Plan for Key Employees of HCA Inc. and its Affiliates
(the “2006 Plan”) was established. The 2006 Plan is
designed to promote the long term financial interests and growth
of the Company and its subsidiaries by attracting and retaining
management and other personnel and key service providers with
the training, experience and ability to enable them to make a
substantial contribution to the success of business, motivate
management personnel by means of growth-related incentives to
achieve long range goals and further the alignment of interests
of participants with those of our stockholders through
opportunities for increased stock, or stock-based ownership in
the Company. The

F-16


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 3 — SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
(Continued)

2006 Stock Incentive Plan
(Continued)

2006 Plan permits the granting of awards covering 10% of our
fully diluted equity immediately after consummation of the
Recapitalization. A portion of the options under the 2006 Plan
will vest solely based upon continued employment over a specific
period of time, and a portion of the options will vest based
both upon continued employment over a specific period of time
and upon the achievement of predetermined performance targets
over time. At December 31, 2006, no options had been
granted, and there were 10,656,100 shares available for
future grants under the 2006 Plan.

2005 Equity Incentive Plan

Prior to the Recapitalization, the HCA 2005 Equity Incentive
Plan was the primary plan under which stock options and
restricted stock were granted to officers, employees and
directors. Prior to 2005, we primarily utilized stock option
grants for equity compensation purposes. During 2005, an
increasing equity compensation emphasis was placed on restricted
share grants. The restricted shares granted in 2005 were
originally subject to back-end vesting provisions, with no
shares vesting in the first two years after grant and then a
third of the shares vesting in each of the third, fourth and
fifth years. The restricted shares granted in 2006 were
originally scheduled to vest in equal annual increments over a
five-year period. Upon consummation of the Recapitalization, all
shares of restricted stock became fully vested, were cancelled
and converted into the right to receive a cash payment of
$51.00 per restricted share. During the years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 we recognized
$247 million, $30 million and $5 million,
respectively, of compensation costs related to restricted share
grants. The acceleration of vesting of restricted stock resulted
in the recognition of $201 million of the total
compensation expense related to restricted stock for the year
ended December 31, 2006.

The fair value of each stock option award is estimated on the
grant date, using the Black-Scholes option valuation model with
the weighted average assumptions indicated in the following
table. Generally, awards are subject to graded vesting. Each
grant is valued as a single award with an expected term equal to
the average expected term of the component vesting tranches. We
use historical option exercise behavior data and other factors
to estimate the expected term of the options. The expected term
of the option is limited by the contractual term, and employee
post-vesting termination behavior is incorporated in the
historical option exercise behavior data. Compensation cost is
recognized on the straight-line attribution method. The
straight-line attribution method requires that total
compensation expense recognized must at least equal the vested
portion of the grant-date fair value. The expected volatility is
derived using weekly, historical data for periods preceding the
date of grant. The risk-free interest rate is the approximate
yield on United States Treasury Strips having a life equal to
the expected option life on the date of grant. The expected life
is an estimate of the number of years an option will be held
before it is exercised. The valuation model was not adjusted for
nontransferability, risk of forfeiture or the vesting
restrictions of the options, all of which would reduce the value
if factored into the calculation.




Risk-free interest rate

4.70

%

3.99

%

2.56

%

Expected volatility


%


%


%

Expected life, in years




Expected dividend yield

1.09

%

1.27

%

1.18

%

F-17


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 3 — SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
(Continued)

2005 Equity Incentive Plan (Continued)

Information regarding stock option activity during 2006, 2005
and 2004 is summarized below (share amounts in thousands):

The weighted average fair values of stock options granted during
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were
$10.76, $15.53 and $12.90 per share, respectively. The
total intrinsic value of stock options exercised in the year
ended December 31, 2006 was $123 million.

F-18


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 3 — SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
(Continued)

2005 Equity Incentive Plan (Continued)

A summary of restricted share activity during 2006, 2005 and
2004 follows (share amounts in thousands):

Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”)

Prior to the Recapitalization, our ESPP provided an opportunity
to purchase shares of HCA common stock at a discount (through
payroll deductions over six-month periods) to substantially all
employees. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005
and 2004, ESPP purchases of 931,000, 1,662,400 and
1,805,500 shares, respectively were made. Due to the
Recapitalization, the second six month ESPP purchase for 2006
was cash settled. The fair value of the right to purchase ESPP
shares was estimated using a valuation model with the weighted
average assumptions indicated in the following table.




Risk-free interest rate

4.58

%

2.78

%

1.32

%

Expected volatility


%


%


%

Expected life, in years

0.5

0.5

0.5

Expected dividend yield

0.79

%

1.20

%

1.26

%

Grant date fair value

$

9.38

$

9.98

$

8.48

Management Stock Purchase Plan (“MSPP”)

Prior to the Recapitalization, our MSPP allowed eligible
employees to defer an elected percentage (not to exceed 25%) of
their base salaries through the purchase of restricted stock at
a 25% discount from the average market price. Purchases of
restricted shares were made twice a year and the shares vested
after three years. During the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, MSPP purchases of 156,600 shares,
145,600 shares and 158,900 shares, respectively, were
made at weighted average purchase date discounted (25% discount)
fair values of $35.77 per share, $33.22 per share and
$29.64 per share, respectively. For the

F-19


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 3 — SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
(Continued)

Management Stock Purchase Plan (“MSPP”)
    (Continued)

plan period July 1, 2006 through November 17, 2006,
the MSPP was cash settled due to the Recapitalization. The
purchase date discounted price for this period would have been
$36.79.

NOTE 4 — ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

During 2006, we received proceeds of $560 million and
recognized a net pretax gain of $176 million
($85 million after tax) on the sales of nine hospitals. We
also received proceeds of $91 million and recognized a
pretax gain of $29 million ($18 million after tax) on
the sales of real estate investments and our equity investment
in a hospital joint venture. During 2005, we received proceeds
of $260 million and recognized a net pretax gain of
$49 million ($19 million after-tax) on the sales of
five hospitals, and we received proceeds of $60 million and
recognized a pretax gain of $29 million ($17 million
after tax) related to the sales of real estate investments.
During 2004, we opened one hospital, sold one hospital, and
closed two hospitals. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the proceeds
from the sales were used to repay bank borrowings.

During 2006, we paid $63 million to acquire three hospitals
and $49 million to acquire other health care entities.
During 2005 and 2004, we did not acquire any hospitals, but paid
$126 million and $44 million, respectively, for other
health care entities. Purchase price amounts have been allocated
to the related assets acquired and liabilities assumed based
upon their respective fair values. The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts and operations of the acquired
entities subsequent to the respective acquisition dates. The pro
forma effects of the acquired entities on our results of
operations for periods prior to the respective acquisition dates
were not significant.

The purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of
identifiable net assets of acquired entities aggregated
$38 million, $129 million and $38 million in
2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2004, goodwill increased
$15 million related to adjustments to 2003 acquisitions.

NOTE 5 — IMPAIRMENTS OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

The carrying value for a hospital closed during 2006 was reduced
to fair value of $5 million, based upon estimates of sales
value, resulting in a pretax charge of $16 million that
affected our Eastern Group. During 2006 we also decided to
terminate a construction project and incurred a pretax charge of
$8 million that affected our Corporate and Other Group.

The carrying value for a hospital we closed during 2004 was
reduced to fair value of $39 million, based upon estimates
of sales value, resulting in a pretax charge of $12 million
that affected our Western Group.

The asset impairment charges did not have a significant impact
on our operations or cash flows and are not expected to
significantly impact cash flows for future periods. The
impairment charges affected our property and equipment asset
category.

F-20


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 6 — INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes consists of the following
(dollars in millions):

A reconciliation of the federal statutory rate to the effective
income tax rate follows:




Federal statutory rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State income taxes, net of federal income tax benefit

0.4

2.1

2.6

Nondeductible intangible assets

1.5

0.6

—

IRS settlement

—

(2.2

)

—

Repatriation of foreign earnings

—

(1.1

)

—

Other items, net

0.7

(0.6

)

(0.8

)

Effective income tax rate

37.6

%

33.8

%

36.8

%

During 2005, HCA recognized tax benefits of $48 million
related to a favorable tax settlement regarding the
Company’s divestiture of certain noncore business units in
1998 and 2001 and $24 million related to the repatriation
of foreign earnings.

A summary of the items comprising the deferred tax assets and
liabilities at December 31 follows (dollars in millions):



Assets

Liabilities

Assets

Liabilities

Depreciation and fixed asset basis differences

$

—

$


$

—

$


Allowances for professional liability and other risks


—


—

Doubtful accounts


—


—

Compensation


—


—

Other





$


$


$


$

1,157

Deferred income tax benefits of $476 million and
$372 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, are included in other current assets. Noncurrent
deferred income tax liabilities totaled $390 million and
$830 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

F-21


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 6 — INCOME TAXES (Continued)

The tax benefits associated with share-based compensation
increased the current tax receivable by $97 million,
$163 million, and $50 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively. Such benefits were recorded as increases to
stockholders’ equity.

At December 31, 2006, state net operating loss
carryforwards (expiring in years 2007 through 2026) available to
offset future taxable income approximated $142 million.
Utilization of net operating loss carryforwards in any one year
may be limited and, in certain cases, result in an adjustment to
intangible assets. Net deferred tax assets related to such
carryforwards are not significant.

IRS Disputes

HCA is currently contesting before the Appeals Division of the
Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”), the United
States Tax Court (the “Tax Court”), and the United
States Court of Federal Claims, certain claimed deficiencies and
adjustments proposed by the IRS in conjunction with its
examinations of HCA’s 1994 through 2002 federal income tax
returns, Columbia Healthcare Corporation’s
(“CHC”) 1993 and 1994 federal income tax returns,
HCA-Hospital Corporation of America’s (“Hospital
Corporation of America”) 1991 through 1993 federal income
tax returns and Healthtrust, Inc. — The Hospital
Company’s (“Healthtrust”) 1990 through 1994
federal income tax returns.

During 2003, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit affirmed a Tax Court decision received in 1996 related
to the IRS examination of Hospital Corporation of America’s
1987 through 1988 federal income tax returns, in which the IRS
contested the method that Hospital Corporation of America used
to calculate its tax allowance for doubtful accounts. HCA filed
a petition for review by the United States Supreme Court, which
was denied in October 2004. Due to the volume and complexity of
calculating the tax allowance for doubtful accounts, the IRS has
not determined the amount of additional tax and interest that it
may claim for taxable years after 1988. In December 2004, HCA
made a deposit of $109 million for additional tax and
interest, based on its estimate of amounts due for taxable
periods through 1998.

Other disputed items include the deductibility of a portion of
the 2001 government settlement payment, the timing of
recognition of certain patient service revenues in 2000 through
2002, the method for calculating the tax allowance for doubtful
accounts in 2002, and the amount of insurance expense deducted
in 1999 through 2002. The IRS has claimed an additional
$678 million in income taxes, interest, and penalties
through December 31, 2006, with respect to these issues.
This amount is net of a refundable tax deposit of
$177 million, and related interest, we made during 2006.

During 2006, the IRS began an examination of HCA’s 2003
through 2004 federal income tax returns. The IRS has not
determined the amount of any additional income tax, interest and
penalties that it may claim upon completion of this examination.

Management believes that adequate provisions have been recorded
to satisfy final resolution of the disputed issues. Management
believes that HCA, CHC, Hospital Corporation of America and
Healthtrust properly reported taxable income and paid taxes in
accordance with applicable laws and agreements established with
the IRS during previous examinations and that final resolution
of these disputes will not have a material, adverse effect on
results of operations or financial position.

F-22


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 7 — INVESTMENTS OF INSURANCE
SUBSIDIARY

A summary of the insurance subsidiary’s investments at
December 31 follows (dollars in millions):

At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the investments of our
insurance subsidiary were classified as
“available-for-sale.” The fair value of investment
securities is generally based on quoted market prices. Changes
in temporary unrealized gains and losses are recorded as
adjustments to other comprehensive

F-23


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 7 — INVESTMENTS OF INSURANCE SUBSIDIARY
(Continued)

income. At December 31, 2006, $108 million of money
market funds were subject to the restrictions included in
insurance bond collateralization and assumed reinsurance
contracts.

Scheduled maturities of investments in debt securities at
December 31, 2006 were as follows (dollars in millions):

Amortized

Fair

Cost

Value

Due in one year or less

$


$


Due after one year through five years



Due after five years through ten years



Due after ten years



2,040

2,061

Asset-backed securities



$

2,104

$

2,129

The average expected maturity of the investments in debt
securities approximated 2.5 years at December 31,
2006. Expected and scheduled maturities may differ because the
issuers of certain securities may have the right to call, prepay
or otherwise redeem such obligations.

The cost of securities sold is based on the specific
identification method. Sales of securities for the years ended
December 31 are summarized below (dollars in millions):

NOTE 8 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

Interest Rate Swap Agreements

We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to manage our
exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. These swap
agreements involve the exchange of fixed and variable rate
interest payments between two parties based on common notional
principal amounts and maturity dates. Pay-fixed interest rate
swaps effectively convert LIBOR indexed variable rate
instruments to fixed interest rate obligations. The net interest
payments, based on the notional amounts in these agreements,
generally match the timing of the related liabilities. The
notional amounts of the swap agreements represent amounts used
to calculate the exchange of cash flows and are not our assets
or liabilities. Our credit risk related to these agreements is
considered low because the swap agreements are with creditworthy
financial institutions. The interest payments under these
agreements are settled on a net basis.

F-24


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 8 — FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (Continued)

Interest Rate Swap Agreements
(Continued)

The following table sets forth our interest rate swap
agreements, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, at
December 31, 2006 (dollars in millions):

Notional

Fair

Amount

Termination Date

Value

Pay-fixed interest rate swap

$

4,000

November 2011

$


Pay-fixed interest rate swap

4,000

November 2011


The fair value of the interest rate swaps at December 31,
2006 represents the estimated amounts we would receive upon
termination of these agreements.

Cross Currency Swaps

The Company and certain subsidiaries have incurred obligations
and entered into various intercompany transactions where such
obligations are denominated in a currency (Euro), other than the
functional currencies (United States Dollar and Great Britain
Pound) of the parties executing the trade. In order to better
match the cash flows of our obligations and intercompany
transactions with cash flows from operations, we entered into
various cross currency swaps.

The cross currency swaps were not designated as hedges and
changes in fair value are recognized in results of operations.
The following table sets forth our cross currency swap
agreements at December 31, 2006 (amounts in millions):

Notional

Fair

Amount

Termination Date

Value

Euro — United States Dollar Currency Swap

568 Euro

December 2011

$


Euro — Great Britain Pound (GBP) Currency Swap

251 GBP

December 2011

(5

)

The fair value of the cross currency swaps at December 31,
2006 represents the estimated amounts we would receive or pay
upon termination of these agreements.

Fair Value Information

At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair values of cash and
cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable
approximated carrying values due to the short-term nature of
these instruments. The estimated fair values of other financial
instruments subject to fair value disclosures are generally
determined based on quoted market prices. The estimated fair
values and the related carrying amounts are as follows (dollars
in millions):



Carrying

Fair

Carrying

Fair

Amount

Value

Amount

Value

Assets:

Investments

$

2,143

$

2,143

$

2,384

$

2,384

Interest rate swaps



—

—

Cross currency swaps



—

—

Liabilities:

Long-term debt

$

28,408

$

28,096

$

10,475

$

10,733

Interest rate swaps

—

—



F-25


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 9 — LONG-TERM DEBT

A summary of long-term debt at December 31, including
related interest rates at December 31, 2006, follows
(dollars in millions):

Senior Secured Credit Facilities

On November 17, 2006, in connection with the
Recapitalization, we entered into (i) a $2.000 billion
senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility with a
borrowing base of 85% of eligible accounts receivable, subject
to customary reserves and eligibility criteria ($4 million
available at December 31, 2006) and (ii) a new senior
secured credit agreement, consisting of a $2.000 billion
revolving credit facility ($1.826 billion available at
December 31, 2006 after giving effect to certain
outstanding letters of credit), a $2.750 billion term
loan A, a $8.800 billion term loan B and a

€

1.0 billion
term loan ($1.320 billion at December 31, 2006) under
which one of our European subsidiaries is the borrower.

Borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities bear
interest at a rate equal to an applicable margin plus, at our
option, either (a) a base rate determined by reference to
the higher of (1) the federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1% and
(2) the prime rate of Bank of America or (b) a LIBOR
rate for the currency of such borrowing for the relevant
interest period. The applicable margin for borrowings under the
senior secured credit facilities, with the exception of term
loan B where the margin is static, may be reduced subject
to attaining certain leverage ratios. In addition to paying
interest on outstanding principal under the senior secured
credit facilities, we pay a commitment fee to the lenders under
the asset-based loan facility and the revolving credit facility
in respect of the unutilized commitments thereunder. The initial
commitment fee rate is 0.375% per annum for the asset-based
revolving loan facility and 0.50% per annum under the
revolving credit facility. The commitment fee rates may be
reduced subject to attaining certain leverage ratios.

Obligations under the senior secured credit facilities are
guaranteed by all material, unrestricted wholly-owned
U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, borrowings under the

€

1.0 billion
term loan are guaranteed by us and all material, wholly-owned
European subsidiaries.

F-26


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 9 — LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued)

Senior Secured Credit Facilities (Continued)

The $2.000 billion senior secured asset-based revolving
credit facility and the $2.000 billion senior secured
revolving credit facility expire November 2012. We are required
to repay installments on each of the term loan facilities on a
quarterly basis beginning March 2007. The final payment under
term loan A is in November 2012. The final payments under
term loan B and the Euro term loan are in November 2013.
The senior secured credit facilities contain a number of
covenants that restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our (and
some or all of our subsidiaries’) ability to incur
additional indebtedness, repay subordinated indebtedness, create
liens on assets, sell assets, make investments, loans or
advances, engage in certain transactions with affiliates, pay
dividends and distributions, and enter into sale and leaseback
transactions. In addition, we are required to satisfy and
maintain a maximum total leverage ratio and, in certain
situations, a minimum interest coverage ratio.

We use interest rate swap agreements to manage the floating rate
exposure of our debt portfolio. In the fourth quarter of 2006,
we entered into two interest rate swap agreements, in a total
notional amount of $8 billion, in order to hedge a portion
of our exposure to variable rate interest payments associated
with the senior secured credit facility. The interest rate swaps
expire in November 2011. The effect of the interest rate swaps
is reflected in the effective interest rate for the senior
secured credit facilities in the table above.

Senior Secured Notes

In November 2006, also in connection with the Recapitalization,
we issued $4.200 billion of senior secured notes (comprised
of $1.000 billion of 9 1/8% notes due 2014 and
$3.200 billion of


/


% notes
due 2016), and $1.500 billion of


/


% senior
secured toggle notes (which allow us, at our option, to pay
interest in-kind during the first five years) due 2016, which
are subject to certain standard covenants. The notes are
guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries.

Significant Financing Activities


Proceeds from the senior secured credit facilities and the
senior secured notes were used in connection with the closing of
the Recapitalization. Amounts owed under our previous bank
credit agreements were repaid at the close of the
Recapitalization. In connection with the Recapitalization, we
also tendered for all amounts outstanding under the
8.85% notes due 2007, the 7.00% notes due 2007, the
7.25% notes due 2008, the 5.25% notes due 2008 and the
5.50% notes due 2009 (collectively, the “Notes”).
Approximately 97% of the $1.365 billion total outstanding
amount under the Notes was repurchased pursuant to the tender.

In February 2006, we issued $1.000 billion of
6.5% notes due 2016. Proceeds of $625 million were
used to refinance the remaining amount outstanding under the
2005 term loan and the remaining proceeds were used to pay down
amounts advanced under a prior bank revolving credit facility.


In November 2005, we entered into the 2005 term loan which had a
maturity of May 2006. Under this agreement, we borrowed
$800 million. Proceeds from the 2005 term loan were used to
partially fund the repurchase of our common stock. The 2005 term
loan contained a mandatory prepayment clause which required us
to prepay amounts outstanding upon receiving proceeds from the
issuance of debt or equity securities or from asset sales.
Proceeds of $175 million from the sale of hospitals in the
fourth quarter of 2005 were used to repay a portion of the
amounts outstanding under the 2005 term loan.

F-27


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 9 — LONG-TERM DEBT (Continued)

General Information

Maturities of long-term debt in years 2008 through 2011 are
$299 million, $393 million, $1.495 billion and
$1.084 billion, respectively.

The estimated fair value of our long-term debt was
$28.096 billion and $10.733 billion at
December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, compared to
carrying amounts aggregating $28.408 billion and
$10.475 billion, respectively. The estimates of fair value
are generally based upon the quoted market prices for the same
or similar issues of long-term debt with the same maturities.

NOTE 10 — CONTINGENCIES

Significant Legal Proceedings

We operate in a highly regulated and litigious industry. As a
result, various lawsuits, claims and legal and regulatory
proceedings have been and can be expected to be instituted or
asserted against us. The resolution of any such lawsuits, claims
or legal and regulatory proceedings could have a material,
adverse affect on our results of operations and financial
position in a given period.

In 2005, the Company and certain of its executive officers and
directors were named in various federal securities law class
actions and several shareholders filed derivative lawsuits
purportedly on behalf of the Company. Additionally, a former
employee filed a complaint against certain of our executive
officers pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
and the Company has been served with a shareholder demand letter
addressed to our Board of Directors. We cannot predict the
results of the investigations or any related lawsuits, or the
effect that findings in such investigations or lawsuits may have
on the Company.

In connection with the Merger, we are aware of eight asserted
class action lawsuits related to the Merger filed against us,
certain of our executive officers, our directors and the
Sponsors, and one lawsuit filed against us and one of our
affiliates seeking enforcement of contractual obligations
allegedly arising from the Merger. Certain of these lawsuits,
though not all, are the subject of an agreement in principle to
settle. Additional lawsuits pertaining to the Merger could be
filed in the future.

General Liability Claims

We are subject to claims and suits arising in the ordinary
course of business, including claims for personal injuries or
wrongful restriction of, or interference with, physicians’
staff privileges. In certain of these actions the claimants may
seek punitive damages against us which may not be covered by
insurance. It is management’s opinion that the ultimate
resolution of these pending claims and legal proceedings will
not have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations
or financial position.

Investigations

In January 2001, we entered into an eight-year Corporate
Integrity Agreement (“CIA”) with the Office of
Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
Services. Violation or breach of the CIA, or violation of
federal or state laws relating to Medicare, Medicaid or similar
programs, could subject us to substantial monetary fines, civil
and criminal penalties and/or exclusion from participation in
the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Alleged violations may be
pursued by the government or through private

qui tam

actions. Sanctions imposed against us as a result of such
actions could have a material, adverse effect on our results of
operations or financial position.

In September 2005, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York
seeking the production of documents. Also in September 2005, we
were

F-28


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 10 — CONTINGENCIES (Continued)

Investigations (Continued)

informed that the SEC had issued a formal order of
investigation. Both the subpoena and the formal order of
investigation relate to trading in the Company’s
securities. We are cooperating fully with these investigations.

NOTE 11 — CAPITAL STOCK AND STOCK
REPURCHASES

Capital Stock

In connection with the Recapitalization, the Company’s
certificate of incorporation and by-laws were amended and
restated, effective November 17, 2006, so that they read,
in their entirety, as the certificate of incorporation and
by-laws of Merger Sub read immediately prior to the effective
time of the Merger. Among other things, the restated certificate
of incorporation reduced the number of shares of common stock
the Company is authorized to issue from
1,650,000,000 shares to 125,000,000 shares and the
amended and restated by-laws set the number of directors
constituting the board of directors of the Company at not less
than one nor more than 15.

Stock Repurchase Programs

In October 2005, we announced the authorization of a modified
“Dutch” auction tender offer to purchase up to
$2.500 billion of our common stock. In November 2005, we
closed the tender offer and repurchased 28.7 million shares
of our common stock for $1.437 billion ($50.00 per
share). The shares repurchased represented approximately 6% of
our outstanding shares at the time of the tender offer. During
2005, we also repurchased 8.0 million shares of our common
stock for $412 million, through open market purchases.
During 2006, we repurchased 13.0 million shares of our
common stock for $651 million, through open market
purchases, which completed this authorization.

In October 2004, we announced the authorization of a modified
“Dutch” auction tender offer to purchase up to
$2.501 billion of our common stock. In November 2004, we
closed the tender offer and repurchased 62 million shares
of our common stock for $2.466 billion ($39.75 per
share). The shares repurchased represented approximately 13% of
our outstanding shares at the time of the tender offer. We also
repurchased 0.9 million shares of our common stock for
$35 million, through open market purchases, which completed
this $2.501 billion share repurchase authorization.

In April 2003, we announced an authorization to repurchase
$1.500 billion of our common stock through open market
purchases or privately negotiated transactions. During 2003, we
repurchased under this authorization 25.3 million shares of
our common stock for $900 million, through open market
purchases. During 2004, we repurchased 14.5 million shares
of our common stock for $600 million, through open market
purchases, which completed this authorization.

During 2006, 2005 and 2004, the share repurchase transactions
reduced stockholders’ equity by $653 million,
$1.856 billion and $3.109 billion, respectively.

NOTE 12 — EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

We maintain noncontributory, defined contribution retirement
plans covering substantially all employees. Benefits are
determined as a percentage of a participant’s salary and
vest over specified periods of employee service. Retirement plan
expense was $190 million for 2006, $210 million for
2005 and $185 million for 2004. Amounts approximately equal
to retirement plan expense are funded annually.

We maintain contributory, defined contribution benefit plans
that are available to employees who meet certain minimum
requirements. Certain of the plans require that we match
specified percentages of

F-29


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 12 — EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
(Continued)

participant contributions up to certain maximum levels
(generally 50% of the first 3% of compensation deferred by
participants). The cost of these plans totaled $71 million
for 2006, $60 million for 2005 and $57 million for
2004. Our contributions are funded periodically during each year.

We maintain a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
(“SERP”) for certain executives. The plan is designed
to ensure that upon retirement the participant receives a
prescribed life annuity from the combination of the SERP and our
other benefit plans. Compensation expense under the plan was
$15 million for 2006, $9 million for 2005 and
$8 million for 2004. Accrued benefits liabilities under
this plan totaled $107 million at December 31, 2006
and $42 million at December 31, 2005.

We maintain defined benefit pension plans which resulted from
certain hospital acquisitions in prior years. Compensation
expense under these plans was $31 million for 2006,
$29 million for 2005, and $26 million for 2004.
Accrued benefits liabilities under these plans totaled
$79 million at December 31, 2006 and $56 million
at December 31, 2005.

Adoption of Statement 158

On December 31, 2006, we adopted the recognition and
disclosure provisions of SFAS 158. SFAS 158 required
us to recognize the funded status (i.e., the difference between
the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit
obligations) of our defined benefit plans in the
December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet, with a
corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive
income, net of tax. The adjustment to accumulated other
comprehensive income at adoption represents the unrecognized
actuarial losses and unrecognized prior service costs. These
amounts will be subsequently recognized as components of net
periodic pension cost pursuant to our policy for amortizing such
amounts. Actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs or
credits that arise in subsequent periods and are not recognized
as net periodic pension cost in the same periods, will be
recognized as a component of other comprehensive income and will
then be recognized as a component of net periodic pension cost
in subsequent periods.

The incremental effects of adopting the provisions of
SFAS 158 in our consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2006 are presented in the following table. The
adoption of SFAS 158 had no effect on our consolidated
income statement for the year ended December 31, 2006, or
for any prior period presented, and it will not effect our
operating results in future periods.

At December 31, 2006

Prior to

Effect of

Adopting

Adopting

SFAS 158

SFAS 158

As Reported

Intangible pension asset

$


$

(31

)

$

—

Accrued pension liability




Deferred income taxes




Accumulated other comprehensive income

(15

)

(94

)

(109

)

F-30


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 13 — SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION

We operate in one line of business, which is operating hospitals
and related health care entities. During the three years ended
December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately 26%, 27%
and 28%, respectively, of our revenues related to patients
participating in the Medicare program.

Our operations are structured into three geographically
organized groups: the Eastern Group includes 53 consolidating
hospitals located in the Eastern United States, the Central
Group includes 51 consolidating hospitals located in the Central
United States and the Western Group includes 54 consolidating
hospitals located in the Western United States. We also operate
eight consolidating hospitals in England and Switzerland and
these facilities are included in the Corporate and other group.

F-31


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 13 — SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(Continued)

Adjusted segment EBITDA is defined as income before depreciation
and amortization, interest expense, gains on sales of
facilities, transaction costs, impairment of long-lived assets,
minority interests and income taxes. We use adjusted segment
EBITDA as an analytical indicator for purposes of allocating
resources to geographic areas and assessing their performance.
Adjusted segment EBITDA is commonly used as an analytical
indicator within the health care industry, and also serves as a
measure of leverage capacity and debt service ability. Adjusted
segment EBITDA should not be considered as a measure of
financial performance under generally accepted accounting
principles, and the items excluded from adjusted segment EBITDA
are significant components in understanding and assessing
financial performance. Because adjusted segment EBITDA is not a
measurement determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and is thus susceptible to varying
calculations, adjusted segment EBITDA, as presented, may not be
comparable to other similarly titled measures of other
companies. The geographic distributions of our revenues, equity
in earnings of affiliates, adjusted segment EBITDA, depreciation
and amortization, assets and goodwill are summarized in the
following table (dollars in millions):

F-32


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 13 — SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
(Continued)

As of December 31,



Assets:

Eastern Group

$

5,270

$

5,292

Central Group

4,504

4,592

Western Group

7,714

7,096

Corporate and other

6,187

5,245

$

23,675

$

22,225

Eastern

Central

Western

Corporate

Group

Group

Group

and Other

Total

Goodwill:

Balance at December 31, 2005

$


$


$


$


$

2,626

Acquisitions


—


—


Sales

(57

)

(26

)

—

(3

)

(86

)

Foreign currency translation and other

(10

)





Balance at December 31, 2006

$


$


$


$


$

2,601

F-33


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 14 — OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

The components of accumulated other comprehensive income are as
follows (dollars in millions):

F-34


HCA INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOTE 15 — ACCRUED EXPENSES AND ALLOWANCE FOR
DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS

A summary of other accrued expenses at December 31 follows
(dollars in millions):



Employee benefit plans

$


$


Taxes other than income



Professional liability risks



Interest



Dividends

—


Other



$

1,193

$

1,264

A summary of activity for the allowance of doubtful accounts
follows (dollars in millions):

Provision

Accounts

Balance at

for

Written off,

Balance

Beginning

Doubtful

Net of

at End

of Year

Accounts

Recoveries

of Year

Allowance for doubtful accounts:

Year ended December 31, 2004

$

2,649

$

2,669

$

(2,376

)

$

2,942

Year ended December 31, 2005

2,942

2,358

(2,403

)

2,897

Year ended December 31, 2006

2,897

2,660

(2,129

)

3,428

F-35


HCA INC.

QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION

(UNAUDITED)

(Dollars in millions)


First

Second

Third

Fourth

Revenues

$

6,415

$

6,360

$

6,213

$

6,489

Net income

$


$


(a)

$


(b)

$


(c)

Cash dividends declared per common share

$

0.17

$

0.17

$

—

$

—


First

First

First

First

Revenues

$

6,182

$

6,070

$

6,025

$

6,178

Net income

$


$


(d)

$


(e)

$


(f)

Cash dividends declared per common share

$

0.15

$

0.15

$

0.15

$

0.15

F-36