Item 1A.Risk Factors.



CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD‑LOOKING STATEMENTS



This document, including “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition,” and the documents incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, contain both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Company’s current expectations concerning future results and events. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of statements that include phrases such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “foresee,” “likely,” “will,” “may,” “could” or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe the Company’s objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. More information about these risks, uncertainties and



I-16







other factors is set forth below. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors may be described in the Company’s filings made under the securities laws. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that the Company does not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. The forward-looking statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.



RISK FACTORS



For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. The factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on the Company’s future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.



A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company’s Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets





The Company’s Success and Profitability Are Dependent Upon Audience Acceptance of Its Content, Including Its Television Programs and Motion Pictures, Which Is Difficult to Predict



Television, radio, motion picture and other content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and distribution of such content, and the licensing of rights to the associated intellectual property, depend primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a program or motion picture also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs and motion pictures released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining



I-17









Failure by the Company to Obtain, Create and Retain the Rights Related to Popular Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Revenues

The Company’s revenue from its television, cable networks, radio and motion picture business is partially dependent on the Company’s continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive library of television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication, however, increasingly, these time frames are being shortened. If the content of its television programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Company’s revenues could be adversely affected. The Company obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Television Network’s most widely viewed broadcasts, including golf’s Masters Tournament, the PGA Championship, NFL games, NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament games, and series such as

The Big Bang Theory

, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties.  In addition, Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights to certain programming for

Showtime

,

The Movie Channel

and

Flix

from motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations, and CBS Radio acquires the broadcast rights to syndicated shows and to various programs such as sports events from third parties. CBS Films competes for compelling source material for and the talent necessary to produce motion pictures, as well as with other buyers for the acquisition of third‑party produced motion pictures. Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by the Company. The Company’s failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Company’s revenues.



The Company Must Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology, Content Creation, Services and Standards in Order to Remain Competitive



Video, telecommunications, radio and data services technologies used in the entertainment industry are changing rapidly as are the digital publishing and distribution models for books. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of product delivery or storage, including “cloud-based” DVR storage, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage, could  have a negative effect on the Company’s businesses. Examples of the foregoing include the convergence of television broadcasts and online delivery of programming to televisions and other devices, video-on-demand platforms, tablets, satellite radio, new video and



I-18









Piracy of the Company’s Programming and Other Content, Including Digital Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of the Company’s Programming and Other Content and Adversely Affect Its Businesses and Profitability







I-19







The Company’s Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive and Consolidating Industries





The Loss of Affiliation Agreements or Retransmission Agreements or Renewals on Less Favorable Terms Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company’s Results of Operations







I-20







The Company’s Operating Results Are Subject to Seasonal Variations and Other Factors



The Company’s business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences, on people’s viewing, reading, attendance and listening habits. Typically, the Company’s revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter, Simon & Schuster generates a substantial portion of its revenues in the fourth quarter, and license fees for television programming and CBS Films’ revenue from motion pictures are dependent on the timing, mix, number and availability of the Company’s television programming and motion pictures, as applicable, which may cause operating results to increase or decrease during a period and create non-comparable results relative to the corresponding period in the prior year. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect operating results.



Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect the Company’s Businesses and Customers



The U.S. and other countries where the Company operates have experienced slowdowns and volatilities in their economies. A downturn could lead to lower consumer and business spending for the Company’s products and services, particularly if customers, including advertisers, subscribers, licensees, retailers, theater operators and other consumers of the Company’s content offerings and services, reduce demands for the Company’s products and services. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, the Company’s customers may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations, including distribution of the Company’s content. The Company is unable to predict the duration and severity of weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact the Company’s businesses, operating results, and financial condition.



Volatility and Weakness in Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Credit Availability and Related Financing Costs for the Company



Bank and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. If the disruption in these markets is prolonged, the Company’s ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of its debt could be adversely affected. Although the Company can currently access the bank and capital markets, there is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for the Company. In addition, the Company’s access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by the Company’s short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by ratings agencies. These factors, including the tightening of credit markets, or a decrease in the Company’s debt ratings, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain cost‑effective financing.



Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect the Company’s Profits



The Company produces and acquires programming (including motion pictures) and other content and incurs costs with respect to its content, including for all types of creative talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers, composers and publishers of music, as well as for marketing and distribution. An increase in any of these costs and increased competition from consolidated entities and new entrants into the market for the production and acquisition of new content may lead to decreased profitability.



Changes in Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Business



The television and radio broadcasting and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For example, the Company is required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate its television and radio stations. The Company cannot be assured that the FCC will approve its future renewal applications or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications,



I-21







,

as well as proposed amendments to the law governing territorial exclusivity of the distribution of content in Europe, may have an adverse impact on the Company’s international businesses and internet properties. The Company is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations.



Vigorous Enforcement or Enhancement of FCC Indecency and Other Program Content Rules Against the Broadcast and Cable Industries Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company’s Businesses and Results of Operations





I-22







broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming and/or attempts to increase enforcement of or otherwise expand existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to increase enforcement or other expansion took place and were found to be constitutional, some of the Company’s cable content could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels.



The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company Depends Upon to Distribute Its Programming Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company’s Businesses and Results of Operations



The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters including extreme weather that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations. Each of the Company’s television and radio stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations.



Breach of Security Measures Regarding Information Systems Could Disrupt Operations and Damage the Company’s Reputation and Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company’s Businesses and Results of Operations



Network and information systems and other technologies are important to the Company’s business activities. Despite the Company’s security measures and disaster recovery planning, network and information systems‑related events, such as computer compromises, cyber threats, security breaches, viruses, or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, employee or partner error or malicious or other activities, and power outages, terrorism, natural or other disasters could result in a disruption of the Company’s services and operations.  These events could also result in the improper disclosure of personal data or confidential or proprietary information, including through third parties which receive any of such information on a confidential basis for business purposes and could be subject to any of these events, and damage the Company’s reputation and require the Company to expend resources to remedy any such breaches.  The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations.



The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets, FCC Licenses and Programming



The Company will test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual tests if events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. A downward revision in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets, including FCC licenses, could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Also, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming for which the Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such impairment charge for goodwill, intangible assets and/or programming could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reported net earnings.



Dividends and Dividend Rates Cannot Be Guaranteed



The Company’s Board of Directors assesses relevant factors when considering the declaration of a dividend on the Company’s common stock. The Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to declare dividends, including at the same or similar rates.





I-23







The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management or Operations of the Company’s Business and Adversely Affect Its Revenues





their content. There can be no assurance that these entertainment personalities, authors and talent will remain with or be drawn to the Company or will retain their current audiences or readership. If the Company fails to retain or attract these entertainment personalities, authors and talent or they lose their current audiences or readership, the Company’s revenues could be adversely affected.



The Company's Proposed Separation of its Radio Business Is Subject to Approvals and Closing Conditions



During 2016, the Company announced its intention to explore strategic options to separate its radio business. On February 2, 2017, the Company entered into an agreement with Entercom Communications Corp. to combine the Company’s radio business with Entercom in a merger following a split-off of the Company’s radio business, which is expected to occur through an exchange offer. These transactions are subject to customary approvals and closing conditions and other risks and uncertainties, including the ability to complete the transactions on the anticipated terms and schedule; the ability to obtain regulatory and stockholder approvals; changes in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations and the ability to obtain the anticipated tax  treatment of the transactions; the ability to obtain financing related to the transactions upon acceptable terms or at all; and changes in economic, political and market conditions. These risks could adversely impact the Company’s timing and the ability to consummate or achieve the benefits of the transactions.



The Company’s Liabilities Related to Discontinued Operations and Former Businesses Could Adversely Impact Its Financial Condition



The Company has both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot be assured that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, operating performance or cash flow.



The Company Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity



The Company and its suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions or others could take action in the



I-24







form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Company’s television, radio, cable networks, interactive and motion picture businesses by disrupting the Company’s ability to provide scheduled services and programming or by causing delays in the production of the Company’s television or radio programming or motion pictures. Depending on its duration, any lockout, strike or work stoppage could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, cash flows and/or operating income and/or the timing thereof.



Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates and Political and Economic Risks Associated with the Company’s International Businesses Could Harm the Company’s Financial Condition or Results of Operations



The Company’s businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Certain of the Company’s revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies.  The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar.  As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations.  Other inherent risks of doing business in international markets include changes in the economic environment, potentially adverse tax developments, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade and sanctions barriers and longer payment cycles. The Company may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business.  For example, the June 2016 non-binding “Brexit” referendum to withdraw the U.K. from the European Union may adversely affect economic and market conditions in the U.K. and other regions where the Company conducts business and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the Euro and British Pound. In addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.



NAI, Through Its Voting Control of the Company, Is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval





Sales of Shares of Common Stock by NAI Could Adversely Affect the Stock Price



NAI, through its direct and indirect ownership of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company.  Based on information received from NAI, shares of the Company’s voting Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock owned by certain wholly‑owned subsidiaries of NAI are pledged to such subsidiaries’ lenders.  NAI holds more than 50% of the Company’s voting Class A shares directly and these shares are not pledged. If any of such subsidiaries defaults on its obligations and the lenders foreclose on the collateral, the lenders or anyone to whom the lenders transfer the Company’s shares could sell such shares or convert those shares



I-25







of voting Class A Common Stock into shares of non-voting Class B Common Stock and sell such shares, which could adversely affect the Company’s share price. Additionally, if the lenders foreclose on the pledged shares of voting Class A Common Stock, NAI will no longer directly or indirectly own those shares and such lenders or other transferees would have voting rights in the Company. In addition, there can be no assurance that NAI or its subsidiaries at some future time will not sell or pledge additional shares of the Company’s stock, which could adversely affect the Company’s share price.



Many Factors May Cause the Stock Price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to Fluctuate



The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Company’s control, include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; changes in expectations as to the Company’s future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; success of the Company’s operating and growth strategies; investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors.  In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s actual operating performance.



The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities



So long as the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control, each company’s businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the FCC, U.S. and non-U.S. antitrust rules and regulations and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the U.S., among others potentially. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC and other purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of Viacom Inc. may have the effect of limiting and affecting the activities, strategic business alternatives and business terms available to the Company, including limitations to which the Company contractually agreed in connection with the Company’s separation of former Viacom Inc. (“Former Viacom”) into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation and new Viacom Inc., which was completed on December 31, 2005 (the “Separation”).



In Connection with the Separation, Each Company Will Rely on the Other Company’s Performance Under Various Agreements Between the Companies



In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements, including a Separation Agreement dated December 19, 2005, a Tax Matters Agreement dated December 30, 2005, which are filed as exhibits to this report, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and Viacom Inc. following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Each company will rely on the other to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or Viacom Inc. under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If Viacom Inc. were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses.





I-26







NAI, Certain Directors and Members of Management May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest



NAI has voting control of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder through the SMR Trust, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Chairman Emeritus of the Company and Chairman Emeritus of Viacom Inc.  Ms. Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Company’s and Viacom Inc.’s directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and Viacom Inc. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between the Company and Viacom Inc. regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Separation and the relationship between the Company and Viacom Inc. thereafter.  These agreements include the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement



and any commercial agreements between the parties or their affiliates. On occasion, the Company and Viacom Inc. may compete with each other in various commercial enterprises. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if the Company and Viacom Inc. enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future.  CBS Corp.’s certificate of incorporation contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to both the Company and Viacom Inc. CBS Corp.’s certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of the Company who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of Viacom Inc. acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both the Company and Viacom Inc., such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to the Company or Viacom Inc. or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to the Company and its stockholders. In addition, CBS Corp.’s certificate of incorporation provides that the Company renounces any interest in any such opportunity presented to Viacom Inc. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one of such companies may be used for the benefit of the other company.



