Item 1A.Risk Factors.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

I-23









under
the securities laws. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that the Company does not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. The forward-looking
statements included in this document are only made as of the date of this document and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent
events or circumstances.

RISK FACTORS

For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. The
factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have
material adverse effects on the Company's future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate
results or trends in future periods. The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K.

A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company's Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets

The Company's Success Is Dependent Upon Audience Acceptance of Its Content, Particularly Its Television and Radio Programs and Motion Pictures, Which Is Difficult to Predict

Television, radio and motion picture content production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived
from the production and distribution of a television or radio program or motion picture, and the licensing of rights to the associated intellectual property, depend primarily upon their acceptance by
the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a television or radio program or motion picture also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing programs and motion
pictures released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions

I-24









and
other tangible and intangible factors, all of which are difficult to predict. Rating points are also factors that are weighed when determining the advertising rates that the Company receives. The
use of new ratings technologies and measurements could have an impact on the Company's program ratings.
Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. For example, there can be no assurance that any replacement programming on the Company's radio or television stations will
generate the same level of revenues or profitability of previous programming. In addition, the success of the Company's cable networks and Simon & Schuster is similarly dependent on audience
acceptance of its programming and publications, respectively. The theatrical success of a motion picture, based in large part upon audience acceptance, is a significant factor in determining the
revenues it is likely to generate in home entertainment sales, licensing fees and other exploitation during the various other distribution windows. Consequently, low public acceptance of the Company's
content, particularly its television and radio programs and motion pictures, will have an adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.

Failure by the Company to Obtain, Create and Retain the Rights in Popular Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company's Revenues

Operating results from the Company's programming (including motion pictures) businesses fluctuate primarily with the acceptance of such
programming by the public, which is difficult to predict. The Company's revenue from its television, radio and motion picture business is therefore partially dependent on the Company's continued
ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive library of
television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication. If the content of its television
programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Company's revenues could be adversely affected. The Company obtains a
significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Television Network's most widely viewed broadcasts, including certain NCAA championships, golf's Masters
Tournament and PGA Championship, and NFL games, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties. In addition, Showtime Networks
enters into commitments to acquire rights to certain programming for

Showtime

,

The Movie Channel

and

Flix

from motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations, and CBS Radio acquires the broadcast rights to syndicated shows and to
various programs, such as sports events from third parties. CBS Films competes for compelling source material for and the talent necessary to produce motion pictures. Competition for popular
programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular
programming currently licensed by the Company. The Company's failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Company's revenues.

Any Decrease in Popularity of the Programming for Which the Company Has Incurred Significant Commitments Could Have an Adverse Effect on Its Profitability

Programming and talent commitments of the Company, estimated to aggregate approximately $10.28 billion as of December 31,
2009, primarily included $6.63 billion for sports programming rights, $2.74 billion relating to television, radio and film production and licensing and $906.3 million for talent
contracts, with $706.6 million of these amounts payable in and after 2015. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the sports events for which the Company has acquired
rights, or in the television and radio programming the Company expects to air, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time.

I-25









Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect the Company's Businesses and Customers

The U.S. and other countries where the Company operates have experienced slowdowns and volatilities in their economies. This downturn
could lead to lower consumer and business spending for the Company's products and services, particularly if customers, including advertisers, subscribers, licensees, retailers, theater operators and
other consumers of the Company's content offerings and services, reduce demands for the Company's products and services. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, the Company's customers may
have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely
payments and continue operations. The Company is unable to predict the duration and severity of weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact the
Company's businesses, operating results, and financial condition.

Volatility and Weakness in Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Credit Availability and Related Financing Costs for the Company

Bank and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. If the disruption in these markets is prolonged, the
Company's ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of its debt could be adversely affected. Although the Company can currently access the bank and capital markets, there
is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for the Company. In addition, the Company's access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by the Company's short-
and long-term debt ratings assigned by ratings
agencies. These factors, including the tightening of credit markets, or a decrease in the Company's debt ratings, could adversely affect the Company's ability to obtain cost-effective
financing.

The Company's Operating Results Are Subject to Seasonal Variations and Other Factors

The Company's business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal
advertising patterns and seasonal influences on people's viewing, reading, attendance and listening habits. Typically, the Company's revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter,
Simon & Schuster generates a substantial portion of its revenues in the fourth quarter, and CBS Films' revenue from motion pictures is dependent on the timing, mix, number and availability of
its pictures and will generally experience increases in the summer around holidays and in the fourth quarter. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from
advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and
may adversely affect operating results.

The Company's Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries

The Company competes with other media companies for high quality content and attractive outdoor advertising space to achieve large
audiences and to generate advertising revenue. The Company also competes for distribution on various cable, DBS and other platforms. The Company's ability to attract audiences and advertisers and
obtain favorable distribution depends in part on its ability to provide popular television, syndicated programming and radio programming, motion pictures and books, as well as well-placed
outdoor advertising faces. In addition, the consolidation of advertising agencies, distributors and television service providers has made competition for audiences, advertising revenue, and
distribution more intense. In addition, consolidation among book retailers and the growth of on-line sales have resulted in increased competition for limited physical shelf space for the
Company's publications and for the attention of consumers on-line. Competition for audiences and advertising comes from: broadcast television stations and networks; cable television
systems and networks; motion picture studios; the Internet; terrestrial and satellite radio and portable digital audio players; outdoor advertisers; local, regional and national newspapers; direct
mail; and other communications and advertising media that operate in these markets. Other television and radio stations or cable networks may change their formats

I-26









or
programming, a new station or new network may adopt a format to compete directly with the Company's stations or networks, or stations or networks might engage in aggressive promotional campaigns.
In book publishing, price competition among electronic and print book retailers could decrease the prices for new releases and the outlets available for book sales. This competition could result in
lower ratings and advertising and subscription and other revenues or increased promotional
and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for the Company. The Company cannot be assured that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or
potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition or results of operations.

The Company Must Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology, Content Creation, Services and Standards in Order to Remain Competitive

Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect the Company's Profits

The Company produces and acquires programming (including motion pictures) and content and incurs costs for all types of creative
talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers as well as marketing and distribution. An increase in any of these costs may lead to decreased profitability.

I-27









Piracy of the Company's Programming and Other Content, Including Digital and Internet Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of the Company's
Programming and Other Content and Adversely Affect Its Businesses and Profitability

Piracy of programming (including motion pictures) is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by the availability of
digital copies of content and technological advances allowing conversion of such programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high
quality unauthorized copies of the Company's content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and profitability because
these products reduce the revenue that the Company potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would
have an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and profitability.

Changes in U.S. Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Business

I-28









Vigorous Enforcement or Enhancement of FCC Indecency and Other Program Content Rules Against the Broadcast and Cable Industries Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's
Businesses and Results of Operations

The Loss of Affiliation Agreements or Retransmission Agreements Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Results of Operations

I-29









and/or
marketing of its subscription program services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all.

The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Transmitter Facilities that the Company Depends Upon to Distribute Its Programming Could Materially Adversely Affect the
Company's Businesses and Results of Operations

The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include
uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters including extreme weather that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as
a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, the Company may not
be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
businesses and results of operations. In addition, each of the Company's television and radio stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities
that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's businesses and results of operations.

The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets, FCC Licenses and Programming

The Company will test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter
of each year and between annual tests if events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. A downward revision in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets,
including FCC licenses, could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Also, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming for which the
Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such impairment charge for goodwill, intangible assets and/or programming could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's reported net earnings.

Dividends and Dividend Rates Cannot Be Guaranteed

The overall weakened economy and turmoil in the credit and capital markets may cause companies to recalibrate their business plans with
a renewed focus on liquidity and maintenance of a strong balance sheet. The Company's Board of Directors assesses relevant factors when considering the declaration of a dividend on the Company's
common stock. The Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to declare dividends, including at the same or similar rates.

The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management or Operations of the Company's Business and Adversely Affect Its Revenues

The Company's business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of its chief executive officer and other key
employees and entertainment personalities. The Company believes that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by its executive officers would be difficult to replace, and that the
loss of its executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the impairment of the Company's ability to execute its business strategy. Additionally, the Company
employs or independently contracts with several entertainment personalities and authors with significant loyal audiences. Entertainment personalities are sometimes significantly responsible for the
ranking of a television or radio station and, therefore, the ability of the station to sell advertising, and an author's popularity can be significantly responsible for the success of a particular
book. CBS Films produces motion pictures with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent who are important to achieving audience endorsement of its motion pictures. There can be no assurance
that these entertainment personalities, authors and talent will remain with
or be drawn to the Company or will retain their current audiences or readership. If the Company fails to retain or attract these entertainment personalities, authors and talent or they lose their
current audiences or readership, the Company's revenues could be adversely affected.

I-30







Regulation of the Outdoor Advertising Industry Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Outdoor Business

The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation and enforcement at the federal, state and local levels
in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations and enforcement actions can affect the operation and continuance of operations of advertising
displays and include restrictions on the construction, repair, upgrading, height, size and location of outdoor advertising structures and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can
be displayed on these structures. In addition, outdoor advertising is the subject of targeted state and municipal taxes. Such laws may reduce the Company's expansion opportunities or may increase
competitive pressure from others. The Company cannot give any assurance that existing or future laws or regulations will not materially and adversely affect its outdoor business.

Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Results of Operations

Certain of the Company's revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates
relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations.

The Company's Liabilities Related to Discontinued Operations and Former Businesses Could Adversely Impact Its Financial Condition

The Company has both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain
of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities,
contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot be assured that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these
liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position, operating performance or cash flow.

The Company Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity

The Company and its suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are
subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in
the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Company's television, radio and motion
picture businesses by causing delays in the production of the Company's television or radio programming, motion pictures or the Company's outdoor business by disrupting its ability to place
advertising on outdoor faces. Depending on their duration, strikes or work stoppages could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and operating income.

Political and Economic Risks Associated with the Company's International Businesses Could Harm the Company's Financial Condition or Results of Operations

The Company's businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among
other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. The Company may incur substantial expense as a
result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business. In addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future
financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in

I-31









advertising
expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations.

NAI, Through Its Voting Control of the Company, Is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval

NAI, through its beneficial ownership of the Company's Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company.
Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, and
Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a
director of the Company. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of
control. Other stockholders are unable to affect the outcome of the corporate actions of the Company for so long as NAI retains voting control.

Sales of Additional Shares of Common Stock by NAI Could Adversely Affect the Stock Price

NAI, through its beneficial ownership of the Company's Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company. In connection
with meeting requirements under NAI's credit facilities, in October 2009, NAI sold approximately $343 million of the Company's non-voting Class B Common Stock; and, in
October 2008, NAI sold approximately $119 million of the Company's non-voting Class B Common Stock. There can be no assurance that NAI at some future time will not sell
additional shares of the Company's stock, which could adversely affect the Company's share price.

Also
as part of a restructuring of NAI's credit facilities, in May 2009, NAI advised the Company that NAI had pledged substantially all of its assets, including the shares of the
Company's voting Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock that NAI owns, to secure those obligations. If NAI defaults on its obligations and the creditors foreclose on
the collateral, the creditors or anyone to whom the creditors transfer such shares could convert those shares of voting Class A Common Stock into shares of non-voting Class B Common
Stock and sell such shares, which could adversely affect the Company's share price. Additionally, if the creditors foreclose on the pledged shares of voting Class A Common Stock, NAI will no
longer own those shares and will therefore no longer have voting control of the Company.

Many Factors May Cause the Stock Price of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to Fluctuate

The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors.
These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Company's control, include:

•actual or anticipated fluctuations in CBS Corp.'s operating results;•changes in expectations as to CBS Corp.'s future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities
analysts;•success of CBS Corp.'s operating and growth strategies;•investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events;•operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and•realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors.

In
addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry
fluctuations may

I-32









adversely
affect the trading prices of the Company's common stock, regardless of the Company's actual operating performance.

Risks Related to the Separation

The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes

So long as the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any
other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the FCC and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in
the U.S., among others potentially. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly
controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of Viacom Inc. may have the effect of limiting and
affecting the activities, strategic business alternatives and business terms available to the Company.

The Separation Agreement Prohibits the Company from Engaging in Certain Types of Businesses

Under the terms of the Separation Agreement entered into between the Company and Viacom Inc. in connection with the Separation,
the Company may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind Viacom Inc. or subjects Viacom Inc. to restrictions it is not
otherwise subject to by legal order without Viacom Inc.'s consent. These restrictions could limit and affect the activities, strategic business alternatives and business terms available to the
Company.

In Connection with the Separation, Each Company Will Rely on the Other Company's Performance Under Various Agreements Between the Companies

In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements, including the Separation
Agreement, a tax matters agreement dated December 30, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report, effective as of the Separation (the "Tax Matters Agreement") and certain related party
arrangements pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of
assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and Viacom Inc. following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition,
pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and New
Viacom. Each company will rely on the other to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or
Viacom Inc. under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If Viacom Inc. were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these
agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses.

Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest

The management and directors of the Company may own both CBS Corp. common stock and Viacom Inc. common stock, and both the
Company and Viacom Inc. are controlled by NAI. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive
Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors and executive chairman of Viacom Inc.'s board of directors. Ms. Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the
Board of Directors of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company. Mr. Frederic V. Salerno is a director
of Viacom Inc. and serves as a

I-33









