Item 1A.Risk Factors.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

RISK FACTORS

For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect our business and financial results. The
factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have
material adverse effects on the Company's future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate
results or trends in future periods. The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K.

A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause the Company's Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets

The Company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its broadcast and basic cable networks, television stations,
radio stations, outdoor media and syndicated programming and online properties. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers, the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic
market, particularly a major market such as Los Angeles, New York or Chicago, in which the Company owns and operates sizeable businesses, could alter current or prospective advertisers' spending
priorities. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and economic
uncertainty. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the
economy, including the automotive, financial and pharmaceutical segments, represent a significant portion of the Company's advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change
resulting in a reduction in these sectors' advertising expenditures may adversely affect the Company's revenue. Advertisers' willingness to purchase advertising from the Company may also be affected
by a decline in audience ratings

I-23









for
the Company's programming, the inability of the Company to retain the rights to popular programming, increasing audience fragmentation caused by new program channels and the proliferation of new
media formats, including the Internet and video-on-demand and the deployment of portable digital devices and new technologies which allow consumers to live stream and time
shift programming, make and store digital copies and skip or fast-forward through advertisements. The Company's revenues from outdoor advertising also depend on the Company's continued
ability to obtain the right to use effective outdoor advertising space. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and results of operations.

The Company's Success and Profitability Are Dependent Upon Audience Acceptance of Its Content, Including Its Television and Radio Programs and Motion Pictures, Which Is
Difficult to Predict

Failure by the Company to Obtain, Create and Retain the Rights Related to Popular Programming Could Adversely Affect the Company's Revenues

The Company's revenue from its television, radio, cable networks and motion picture business is partially dependent on the Company's
continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive
library of television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication. If the content of its
television programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Company's revenues could be adversely affected. The Company

I-24









obtains
a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Television Network's most widely viewed broadcasts, including the NCAA's Men's Final Four, golf's
Masters Tournament and PGA Championship, and NFL games, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties. In addition, Showtime
Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights to certain programming forShowtime,The Movie
ChannelandFlixfrom motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations, and CBS Radio acquires the broadcast
rights to syndicated shows and to various programs, such as sports events from third parties. CBS Films competes for compelling source material for and the talent necessary to produce motion pictures.
Competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with
the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by the Company. The Company's failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Company's revenues.

The Company Must Respond to Rapid Changes in Technology, Content Creation, Services and Standards in Order to Remain Competitive

I-25









Piracy of the Company's Programming and Other Content, Including Digital Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of the Company's Programming and Other
Content and Adversely Affect Its Businesses and Profitability

Piracy of programming (including motion pictures), books and other copyrighted material is prevalent in many parts of the world and is
made easier by the availability of digital copies of content and technological advances allowing conversion of such programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitate the creation,
transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of the Company's content. Recent technological advances, which facilitate the streaming of programming via the Internet to television
screens, may increase piracy. The proliferation of unauthorized copies of programming has an adverse effect on the Company's businesses and profitability because these unauthorized actions reduce the
revenue that the Company potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on
the Company's businesses and profitability. Also, while legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to carry it out continue to escalate and present challenges for enforcement.
Failure of legal protections to evolve and enable enhanced enforcement efforts to combat piracy could make it more difficult for the Company to adequately protect its intellectual property, which
could negatively impact its value and further increase the Company's enforcement costs.

The Company's Operating Results Are Subject to Seasonal Variations and Other Factors

The Company's business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal
advertising patterns and seasonal influences on people's viewing, reading, attendance and listening habits. Typically, the Company's revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter,
Simon & Schuster generates a substantial portion of its revenues in the fourth quarter, and license fees for television programming and CBS Films' revenue from motion pictures are dependent on
the timing, mix, number and availability of the Company's television programming and motion pictures, as applicable. In addition, advertising revenues in even-numbered years benefit from
advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and
may adversely affect operating results.

The Company's Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries

I-26









could
result in lower ratings and advertising and subscription and other revenues or increased promotional and other expenses and, consequently, lower earnings and cash flow for the Company. The
Company cannot be assured that it will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on its
business, financial condition or results of operations.

Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect the Company's Businesses and Customers

The U.S. and other countries where the Company operates have experienced slowdowns and volatilities in their economies. A downturn
could lead to lower consumer and business spending for the Company's products and services, particularly if customers, including advertisers, subscribers, licensees, retailers, theater operators and
other consumers of the Company's content offerings and services, reduce demands for the Company's products and services. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, the Company's customers may
have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely
payments and continue operations, including distribution of the Company's content. The Company is unable to predict the duration and severity of
weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact the Company's businesses, operating results, and financial condition.

Volatility and Weakness in Capital Markets May Adversely Affect Credit Availability and Related Financing Costs for the Company

Bank and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. If the disruption in these markets is prolonged, the
Company's ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of its debt could be adversely affected. Although the Company can currently access the bank and capital markets, there
is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for the Company. In addition, the Company's access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by the Company's short-
and long-term debt ratings assigned by ratings agencies. These factors, including the tightening of credit markets, or a decrease in the Company's debt ratings, could adversely affect the
Company's ability to obtain cost-effective financing.

Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect the Company's Profits

The Company produces and acquires programming (including motion pictures) and content and incurs costs for all types of creative
talent, including actors, authors, writers and producers as well as marketing and distribution. An increase in any of these costs may lead to decreased profitability.

Changes in Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Business

The television and radio broadcasting and distribution industries in the U.S. are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations
issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The television and radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act. For
example, the Company is required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate its radio and television stations. The Company cannot be assured that the FCC will approve its future renewal applications
or that the renewals will be for full terms or will not include conditions or qualifications. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of
the Company's licenses could have a material adverse effect on the Company's revenues. The Company must also comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of its
television and radio stations and its television networks. FCC regulations prohibit the ownership of more than one of the top four networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, and limit the number of television
and radio stations that a licensee can own in a market and the number of television stations that can be owned

I-27









Vigorous Enforcement or Enhancement of FCC Indecency and Other Program Content Rules Against the Broadcast and Cable Industries Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's
Businesses and Results of Operations

I-28









extension
of the indecency rules that are applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming and/or attempts to increase enforcement of or
otherwise expand existing laws and rules. If such an extension, attempt to increase enforcement or other expansion took place and were found to be constitutional, some of the Company's cable content
could be subject to additional regulation and might not be able to attract the same subscription and viewership levels.

The Loss of Affiliation Agreements or Retransmission Agreements Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Results of Operations

The Failure or Destruction of Satellites, Transmitter Facilities and Network and Information Systems and Other Technology that the Company Depends Upon to Distribute Its
Programming and Operate Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Businesses and Results of Operations

I-29









information
systems-related events or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.

The Company Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill, Intangible Assets, FCC Licenses and Programming

The Company will test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter
of each year and between annual tests if events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. A downward revision in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets,
including FCC licenses, could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Also, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming for which the
Company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such impairment charge for goodwill, intangible assets and/or programming could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's reported net earnings.

Dividends and Dividend Rates Cannot Be Guaranteed

The Company's Board of Directors assesses relevant factors when considering the declaration of a dividend on the Company's common
stock. The Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to declare dividends, including at the same or similar rates.

The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management or Operations of the Company's Business and Adversely Affect Its Revenues

I-30







Regulation of the Outdoor Advertising Industry Could Materially Adversely Affect the Company's Outdoor Business

The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation and enforcement at the federal, state and local levels
in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations and enforcement actions can affect the operation and continuance of operations of advertising
displays and include restrictions on the construction, operation, repair, upgrading, height, size, location and type, such as digital, tri-vision or static, of outdoor advertising
structures and displays and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can be displayed on these structures. In addition, outdoor advertising is the subject of targeted state and
municipal taxes and fees. Such laws may increase the Company's costs and reduce the Company's expansion opportunities or may increase competitive pressure from others. The Company cannot give any
assurance that existing or future laws or regulations will not materially and adversely affect its outdoor business.

Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company's Results of Operations

Certain of the Company's revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates
relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations.

The Company's Liabilities Related to Discontinued Operations and Former Businesses Could Adversely Impact Its Financial Condition

The Company has both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain
of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities,
contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot be assured that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these
liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position, operating performance or cash flow.

The Company Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity

The Company and its suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are
subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions or others could take
action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Company's television, radio,
cable networks, interactive and motion picture businesses by disrupting the Company's ability to provide scheduled services and programming or by causing delays in the production of the Company's
television or radio programming, motion pictures or the Company's outdoor business by disrupting its ability to place advertising on outdoor faces. Depending on its duration, any lockout, strike or
work stoppage could have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues, cash flows and/or operating income and/or the timing thereof.

Political and Economic Risks Associated with the Company's International Businesses Could Harm the Company's Financial Condition or Results of Operations

The Company's businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among
other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. The Company

I-31









may
incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business. In addition, acts of terrorism or
other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Company's
business, financial condition or results of operations.

NAI, Through Its Voting Control of the Company, Is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval

NAI, through its direct and indirect ownership of the Company's Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company.
Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, and
Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Company's Board of Directors. In addition, Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a
director of the Company. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of
control. Other stockholders who may have different interests are unable to affect the outcome of the corporate actions of the Company for so long as NAI retains voting control.

Sales of Shares of Common Stock by NAI Could Adversely Affect the Stock Price

NAI, through its direct and indirect ownership of the Company's Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company. Based
on information received from NAI, shares of the Company's voting Class A common stock and non-voting Class B common stock owned by NAI Entertainment Holdings LLC ("NAI
EH"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NAI, are pledged to NAI EH's lenders. NAI holds more than 50% of the Company's voting Class A shares directly and these shares are not pledged. If NAI EH
defaults on its obligations and the lenders
foreclose on the collateral, the lenders or anyone to whom the lenders transfer the Company's shares could sell such shares or convert those shares of voting Class A Common Stock into shares of
non-voting Class B Common Stock and sell such shares, which could adversely affect the Company's share price. Additionally, if the lenders foreclose on the pledged shares of voting
Class A Common Stock, NAI will no longer directly or indirectly own those shares and such lenders or other transferees would have voting rights in the Company. In addition, there can be no
assurance that NAI or NAI EH at some future time will not sell or pledge additional shares of the Company's stock, which could adversely affect the Company's share price.

Many Factors May Cause the Stock Price of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to Fluctuate

The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors.
These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Company's control, include:

•actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company's operating results;•changes in expectations as to the Company's future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities
analysts;•success of the Company's operating and growth strategies;•investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events;•operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and•realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors.

I-32







In
addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry
fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of the Company's common stock, regardless of the Company's actual operating performance.

The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities

So long as the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any
other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the FCC and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in
the U.S., among others potentially. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly
controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of Viacom Inc. may have the effect of limiting and
affecting the activities, strategic business alternatives and business terms available to the Company, including limitations to which the Company contractually agreed in connection with the Company's
separation of former Viacom Inc. ("Former Viacom") into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation and new Viacom Inc., which was completed on December 31, 2005 (the
"Separation").

In Connection with the Separation, Each Company Will Rely on the Other Company's Performance Under Various Agreements Between the Companies

In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements, including the Separation
Agreement, a tax matters agreement dated December 30, 2005, which is filed as an exhibit to this report, effective as of the Separation (the "Tax Matters Agreement") and certain related party
arrangements pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of
assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and Viacom Inc. following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition,
pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax
liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Each company will rely on the other to
satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or Viacom Inc. under these agreements are legal or
contractual liabilities of the other company. If Viacom Inc. were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its
indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses.

Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest

The management and directors of the Company may own both CBS Corp. common stock and Viacom Inc. common stock, and both the
Company and Viacom Inc. are controlled by NAI. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Executive
Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors and executive chairman of Viacom Inc.'s board of directors. Ms. Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the
Board of Directors of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. David R. Andelman is a director of NAI and serves as a director of the Company. Mr. Frederic V. Salerno is a director
of Viacom Inc. and serves as a director of the Company. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Company's
and Viacom Inc.'s management, directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and Viacom Inc. For example, potential conflicts
of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any

I-33









