Item 1A.Risk Factors.



CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD‑LOOKING STATEMENTS





RISK FACTORS



For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could affect its business and financial results. The factors described below are considered to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, technological, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on the Company’s future results. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The following discussion of risk factors should be read in conjunction with “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





I-16







The Company’s success and profitability are dependent upon audience acceptance of its content, which is difficult to predict.



$8.98 billion

as of December 31, 2018, primarily included

$6.62 billion

for sports programming rights,

$1.71 billion

relating to the production and licensing of television and film programming, and

$660 million

for talent contracts, with

$889 million

of these amounts payable in and after


. A shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the programming the Company expects to distribute or the sports events for which the Company has acquired rights, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time.



A decline in advertising expenditures could cause the Company’s revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets.





I-17







as traditional advertising methods.  Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues and results of operations.



The Company must respond to rapid changes in technology, content creation, services, standards and changes in consumer behavior in order to remain competitive.





More television and video programming options, including via digital streaming services and platforms, increase competition for viewers. In addition, competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over the Company for advertising and subscription revenues. Television manufacturers, cable providers and others are developing and offering technology to enable viewers to locate digital copies of programming from the internet to view on television monitors or other devices, which could diminish viewership of the Company’s programming. Also, the impact of technological changes on MVPDs may adversely affect the Company’s cable networks’ ability to grow revenue. In order to respond to these developments, the Company implements changes to its business models and strategies from time to time. There can be no assurance that the Company’s direct-to-consumer digital streaming business models will continue to successfully respond to changes in technologies and consumer preferences. Anticipating and timely adapting to changes in technology and content consumption and exploiting new sources of revenue from these changes could affect the Company’s ability to continue to increase its revenues.



Increased programming and content costs may adversely affect the Company’s profits.



The Company produces and acquires programming and other content and incurs costs with respect to its content, including for all types of creative talent, such as actors, authors, writers and producers, composers and publishers of music, as well as for marketing and distribution. The Company plans to increase its investment in content and related marketing and distribution, including for its direct-to-consumer digital streaming services. An increase in any of these costs and increased competition from large entertainment companies and additional entrants with substantial resources for the production, acquisition and distribution of new content, including Amazon, Apple, Hulu and Netflix, may lead to decreased profitability. As competition for popular content is intense, the Company may have to increase expenditures for talent and intellectual property rights. In addition, changes in content consumption as well as the increasing number of available digital and other program, entertainment and news services increase the risks associated with the success of all types of content.  There can be no assurance that the Company will recoup its investments in programming and related costs. These factors could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.



I-18







Piracy of the Company’s programming and other content, including digital piracy, may decrease revenue received from the exploitation of the Company’s programming and other content and adversely affect its businesses and profitability.





Failure by the Company to obtain, create and retain the rights related to popular programming could adversely affect the Company’s revenues.



The Company’s revenues from its television, cable networks and digital services businesses are partially dependent on the Company’s continued ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Company derives a portion of its revenues from the exploitation of its extensive library of television programming. Generally, a television series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication, however, increasingly, these time frames are being shortened. If the content of its television programming library ceases to be widely accepted by audiences or is not continuously replenished with popular content, the Company’s revenues could be adversely affected. The Company obtains a significant portion of its popular programming from third parties. For example, some of CBS Television Network’s most widely viewed broadcasts, including golf’s Masters Tournament, the PGA Championship, NFL games, NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament games and series such as

Young Sheldon

, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that the Company has negotiated with third parties.  In addition, Showtime Networks enters into commitments and competes with other buyers to acquire rights to certain programming for

Showtime

,

The Movie Channel

and

Flix

from motion picture producers and other suppliers for varying durations. The Company competes for compelling source material for and the talent necessary to produce programming. In addition, competition for popular programming that is licensed from third parties is intense, and the Company may be outbid by its competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewal of popular programming currently licensed by the Company. The Company’s failure to obtain or retain rights to popular content could adversely affect the Company’s revenues.



The Company’s businesses operate in highly competitive and consolidating industries.



The Company competes with other media companies for high quality content to achieve large audiences and to generate advertising and subscription revenue. The Company also competes for distribution on various MVPDs and third-party digital platforms. The Company’s ability to attract audiences and advertisers and obtain favorable distribution depends in part on its ability to provide popular programming and books and adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms. The consolidation of advertising agencies, distributors, content providers, printers and television service providers also has increased their negotiating leverage and intensified competition for audiences, advertising revenue, print production and distribution. In addition, consolidation among book retailers and the growth of online sales and electronic books sales have resulted in increased competition for limited physical shelf space for the Company’s publications and for the attention of consumers online. Competition for audiences and advertising



I-19









The loss of affiliation agreements or retransmission agreements or renewals on less favorable terms could materially adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.





Cyber attacks or other events that adversely affect the Company’s information systems or result in the breach of proprietary or confidential information could disrupt the Company’s business, harm its reputation and expose the Company to regulatory enforcement and litigation.



Network and information systems and other technologies, including technology systems used in connection with the production and distribution of the Company’s content by the Company or third parties, are important to the Company’s business activities. Despite the Company’s security measures and disaster recovery planning, network



I-20









The Company is subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user and other personal data. The Company’s ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting its business may require the Company to notify regulators and customers, employees, or other individuals of a data security breach, including in the EU under the GDPR, which took effect in May 2018. The Company will continue to incur expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations, but despite such efforts may face regulatory and other legal actions in the event of a data breach or perceived or actual non-compliance with such requirements.



The Company’s operating results are subject to seasonal variations and other factors.



The Company’s business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences, on people’s viewing, reading, attendance and listening habits. Typically, the Company’s revenue from advertising increases in the first and fourth quarters, Simon & Schuster generates an increased portion of its revenues in the second half of the year and license fees for television programming are dependent on the commencement of a license period, mix, number and availability of the Company’s television programming, which may cause operating results to increase or decrease during a period and create non-comparable results relative to the corresponding period in the prior year. In addition, the Company’s advertising revenues benefit when the Company broadcasts the Super Bowl and NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament National Semifinals and Championship and, in even-numbered years, benefit from advertising placed by candidates for political offices. The effects of such seasonality make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter and may adversely affect the Company’s operating results.



Economic conditions may adversely affect the Company’s businesses and customers.



The U.S. and other countries where the Company operates experience slowdowns and volatilities in their economies from time to time. A downturn could lead to lower consumer and business spending for the Company’s products and services, particularly if customers, including advertisers, subscribers, licensees, retailers and other consumers of the Company’s content offerings and services, reduce demands for the Company’s products and services. In addition, in unfavorable economic environments, the Company’s customers may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations and may face insolvency, all of which could impair their ability to make timely payments and continue operations, including distribution of the Company’s



I-21







content. The Company is unable to predict the duration and severity of weakened economic conditions and such conditions and resultant effects could adversely impact the Company’s businesses, operating results, and financial condition.



Volatility and weakness in capital markets may adversely affect credit availability and related financing costs for the Company.



Bank and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. If the disruption in these markets is prolonged, the Company’s ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of its debt could be adversely affected. Although the Company can currently access the bank and capital markets, there is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for the Company. In addition, the Company’s access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by the Company’s short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by credit ratings agencies. These factors, including the tightening of credit markets, or a decrease in the Company’s debt ratings, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain cost-effective financing.



Changes in communications laws or other regulations may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business.



,

as well as the new EU law requiring 30% local content on subscription video on demand services and proposed amendments to the law governing territorial exclusivity of the distribution of content in Europe, may have an adverse impact on the Company’s international businesses and internet properties. The Company is unable to predict the effect that any such laws, regulations or policies may have on its operations.



Vigorous enforcement or modification of FCC indecency and other program content rules against the broadcast and cable industries could have an adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations.



The FCC’s rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material on television stations between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent material because of the vagueness of the FCC’s indecency/profanity definition, coupled with



I-22









The failure or destruction of satellites and transmitter facilities on which the Company depends to distribute its programming could materially adversely affect the Company’s businesses and results of operations.



The Company uses satellite systems to transmit its broadcast and cable networks to affiliates. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters including extreme weather that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations. Each of the Company’s television stations and cable networks uses studio and transmitter facilities that are subject to damage or destruction. Failure to restore such facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses and results of operations.



The Company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets, FCC licenses and programming.



The Company tests goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year and between annual tests if events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. A downward revision in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets, including FCC licenses, could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Also, any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the Company’s programming could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such assets. Any such impairment charge for goodwill, intangible assets and/or programming could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reported net earnings.



Dividends and dividend rates cannot be guaranteed.



The Company’s Board of Directors assesses relevant factors when considering the declaration of a dividend on the Company’s common stock. The Company cannot guarantee that it will continue to declare dividends, including at the same or similar rates.



The loss of key personnel, including talent, could adversely affect the Company’s business and revenues.



The Company’s business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of the Company’s corporate and divisional executive officers and various creative talent and entertainment personalities. The Company believes that the loss of its executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the impairment of the Company’s ability to execute its business strategy. The Company employs or contracts with highly regarded



I-23







directors, actors, producers, authors and other talent who are important to attracting and retaining audiences and achieving the success of the Company’s programming, television stations, books and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with or be drawn to the Company or will retain their current appeal. If the Company fails to retain or attract entertainment personalities, authors and talent or they lose their current appeal, the Company’s revenues could be adversely affected.



The Company’s liabilities related to discontinued operations and former businesses could adversely impact its financial condition.



The Company has both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. The Company cannot be assured that its reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, operating performance or cash flow.



The Company could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity.



The Company, its suppliers and business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees, players in sports leagues and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. If the Company, its suppliers or business partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions or others could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect the Company’s television, cable networks and interactive businesses by disrupting the Company’s ability to provide scheduled services and programming or by causing delays in the production of the Company’s programming. Depending on its duration, any lockout, strike or work stoppage could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, cash flows and/or operating income and/or their timing.



Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and political and economic risks associated with the Company’s international businesses could harm the Company’s financial condition or results of operations.



The Company’s businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Certain of the Company’s revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies.  The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar.  As a result, the Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations.  Other inherent risks of doing business in international markets include changes in the economic environment, potentially adverse tax developments, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade and sanctions barriers, longer payment cycles, and changes in privacy and data protection laws.  The Company may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where it does business.  For example, the ongoing “Brexit” processes to withdraw the U.K. from the EU, which is expected to occur in 2019, may adversely affect economic and market conditions in the U.K. and other regions where the Company conducts business and could contribute to volatility in foreign exchange markets. In addition, acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.



Changes in tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies may result in material tax liabilities.



The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions.  Changes in tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies in the territories where the Company’s businesses operate may result in material tax liabilities.  The Company’s tax returns are routinely audited by tax authorities and tax-related litigation or settlements may occur resulting in the assessment of additional taxes.  The enactment of the federal tax legislation in December 2017 (the “Tax Reform Act”) may expose the Company to tax



I-24







risks as a result of the ongoing issuance of interpretive guidance by the U.S. government as to how provisions of the Tax Reform Act are to be applied, which may differ from the Company’s current interpretations.  The aforementioned risks may adversely affect the Company’s effective income tax rate or cash tax payments, which may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.



NAI, through its voting control of the Company, is in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval.



NAI, through its direct and indirect ownership of the Company’s voting Class A Common Stock, has voting control of the Company.  At February 13, 2019, NAI directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.8% of the Company’s Class A Common Stock, and approximately 10.5% of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock on a combined basis.  Mr. Sumner M. Redstone is the beneficial owner of the controlling interest in NAI and, accordingly, beneficially owns all such shares.  Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Chairman Emeritus of the Company's Board of Directors, and Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Company’s Board of Directors. NAI is controlled by Mr. Redstone through the Sumner M. Redstone National Amusements Trust (the “SMR Trust”), which owns 80% of the voting interest of NAI, and such voting interest of NAI held by the SMR Trust is voted solely by Mr. Redstone until his incapacity or death. The SMR Trust provides that in the event of Mr. Redstone’s death or incapacity, voting control of the NAI voting interest held by the SMR Trust will pass to seven trustees, who will include CBS Corporation director Ms. Shari Redstone. No member of the Company’s management is a trustee of the SMR Trust.



Subject to the terms of the settlement and release agreement entered into by the Company and NAI, among others, on September 9, 2018, NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including amending the Company’s bylaws, the election or removal of directors and transactions involving a change of control. For example, the Company’s Amended and Restated Bylaws provide that:



•the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company then entitled to vote generally in an election of directors, voting together as a single class, is required for the stockholders of the Company to amend, alter, change, repeal or adopt any bylaws of the Company;



•any or all of the directors of the Company may be removed from office at any time prior to the expiration of the director’s term of office, with or without cause, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least a majority of all the aggregate voting power of outstanding shares of stock of the Company then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class at a special meeting of stockholders called expressly for that purpose; and



•in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, stockholders of the Company may act by written consent without a meeting if such stockholders hold the number of shares representing not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such actions at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.



Accordingly, other stockholders who may have different interests are unable to affect the outcome of any such corporate actions for so long as NAI retains voting control.



Sales of NAI’s shares of the Company’s common stock could adversely affect the stock price.



At February 13, 2019, NAI directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.8% of the Company’s voting Class A Common Stock, and approximately 10.5% of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and non-voting Class B Common Stock on a combined basis.  Based on information received from NAI, NAI has pledged to its lenders shares of the Company’s non-voting Class B Common Stock owned directly or indirectly by NAI.  The aggregate number of shares



I-25







of non-voting Class B Common Stock pledged by NAI to its lenders represents approximately 4.8% of the Company’s total Class B Common Stock outstanding. If there is a default on NAI’s debt obligations and the lenders foreclose on the collateral, such Class B Common Stock could be sold, which sale could adversely affect the Company’s share price.  There can be no assurance that NAI or its subsidiaries at some future time will not sell or pledge additional shares of the Company’s stock, which could adversely affect the Company’s share price.



Many factors may cause the stock price of the Company’s Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock to fluctuate.



The stock price of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond the Company’s control, include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in the Company’s operating results; changes in expectations as to the Company’s future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of securities analysts; success of the Company’s operating and growth strategies; investor anticipation of strategic, technological or regulatory threats, whether or not warranted by actual events; operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; and realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors.  In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading prices of the Company’s common stock, regardless of the Company’s actual operating performance.



The businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. will be attributable to the other company for certain regulatory purposes, which may limit business opportunities.



So long as the Company and Viacom Inc. are under common control, each company’s businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, will be attributable to the other company for purposes of certain rules and regulations of the FCC, U.S. and non-U.S. antitrust rules and regulations and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the U.S., among others potentially. The businesses of one company will continue to be attributable to the other company for certain FCC and other purposes even after the two companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the two companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of Viacom Inc. may have the effect of limiting and affecting the activities, strategic business alternatives and business terms available to the Company, including limitations to which the Company contractually agreed in connection with the Company’s separation of former Viacom Inc. (“Former Viacom”) into two publicly traded entities, CBS Corporation and new Viacom Inc., which was completed on December 31, 2005 (the “Separation”).



In connection with the Separation, each company will rely on the other company’s performance under various agreements between the companies.



In connection with the Separation, the Company and Viacom Inc. entered into various agreements, including a Separation Agreement dated December 19, 2005, a Tax Matters Agreement dated December 30, 2005, which are filed as exhibits to this report, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which the Company and Viacom Inc. will provide services and products to each other from and after the Separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the allocation of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of the Company and Viacom Inc. following the Separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations are assumed by, each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Each company will rely on the other to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by the Company or Viacom Inc. under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If Viacom Inc. were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, the Company could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses.





I-26







NAI and any common director may face actual or potential conflicts of interest.



NAI has voting control of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder through the SMR Trust, chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of NAI, serves as Chairman Emeritus of the Company and Chairman Emeritus of Viacom Inc.  Ms. Shari Redstone, the president and a director of NAI, serves as Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of each of the Company and Viacom Inc. This ownership overlap and this common director could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the Company’s and Viacom Inc.’s directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for the Company and Viacom Inc. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between the Company and Viacom Inc. regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Separation and the relationship between the Company and Viacom Inc. thereafter.  These agreements include the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement







