Item 1A.Risk Factors.



A wide range of risks may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, now and in the future.  We consider the risks described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable factors that could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Risks Relating to ViacomCBS’ Business and Industry



Changes in consumer behavior, as well as evolving technologies, distribution platforms and packaging, may negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations



The ways in which consumers view content, and technology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly, and new distribution platforms, as well as increased competition from new entrants and emerging technologies, have added to the complexity of maintaining predictable revenue streams.



Technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume content and have affected the options available to advertisers for reaching their target audiences. The evolution of consumer preferences towards digital services and other subscription services, and the substantial increase in availability of programming without advertising or adequate methodologies for audience measurement, may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Examples of the foregoing include the convergence of television telecasts and digital delivery of programming to televisions and other devices, video-on-demand platforms, tablets, new video and electronic book formats, user-generated content sites, unauthorized digital distribution of video content including via streaming and downloading, simultaneous live streaming of telecast content which allows users to consume content on demand and in remote locations while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements or subscription payments and “cloud-based” DVR storage.



In addition, consumers are increasingly using time-shifting and advertising-blocking technologies that enable users to fast-forward or circumvent advertisements, such as DVRs, or increase the sharing of subscription content and reduce the demand for electronic sell-through, DVD and Blu-ray disc products. Substantial use of these technologies could impact the attractiveness of our programming to advertisers, adversely affecting our advertising revenue. Our business also may be adversely affected by the use of antennas (and their integration with set-top boxes or other consumer devices) to access broadcast signals to avoid subscriptions and live and stored video streaming boxes and services, which deliver unauthorized copies of copyrighted content, including those emanating from other countries in various languages.



In response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers, including “skinny bundles,” smaller, often customizable programming packages delivered at lower costs than traditional offerings; SVOD and other subscription services; ad-supported FVOD services developed by television manufacturers, cable providers and others; and original programming hosted on mobile and social media platforms. Also, the impact of technological changes on MVPDs may adversely affect our cable networks’ ability to grow revenue. If these alternative offerings continue to gain traction and our networks and brands are not included in those packages and services, or if consumers increasingly favor alternative offerings over traditional broadcast television and cable subscriptions, we may continue to experience a decline in viewership and ultimately demand for our programming, which could lead to lower revenues. These changing distribution models may also impact our ability to negotiate carriage deals on terms favorable to us, thereby having an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



In order to respond to these developments, we regularly consider and from time to time implement changes to our business models and strategies to remain competitive, and there can be no assurance that we will successfully anticipate or respond to these developments, that we will not experience disruption as we respond to such developments, or that the business models we develop will be as profitable as our current business models.





I-25







Our advertising revenues have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by changes in consumers’ content viewership, deficiencies in audience measurement and advertising market conditions



We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising revenues could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in any given period.



Consumers are increasingly turning to online sources for viewing and purchasing content, and an increasing number of companies offer SVOD services, including some that offer exclusive high-quality original video programming delivered directly to consumers over the Internet. Consumers are also using new technologies that allow customers to live stream and time shift programming, make and store digital copies and skip or fast-forward through advertisements. The increasing number of entertainment choices available to consumers has intensified audience fragmentation and reduced the viewing of content through traditional MVPDs and virtual MVPDs, which has caused, and likely will continue to cause, audience ratings declines for our cable networks and may adversely affect the pricing and volume of advertising. In addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward digital and mobile offerings, which can deliver targeted advertising promptly, from more traditional media, or toward newer ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as beneficial to us as traditional advertising methods.





The strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers’ current spending priorities and the economy in general or the economy of any individual geographic market, particularly a major market, such as Los Angeles or New York, in which we own and operate sizeable businesses, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. Natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in domestic and international advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. In addition, advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the financial, pharmaceutical and automotive segments, represent a significant portion of our advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change resulting in a reduction in these sectors’ advertising expenditures may adversely affect our revenue. Our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. These factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Our success depends on our ability to maintain attractive brands andour reputation, and to offer popular programming and other content



Our ability to maintain attractive brands and our reputation, and to create popular programming and other content, tentpole and other live events and consumer products are key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. The production and distribution of television and other programming, films and other entertainment content



I-26







and the licensing of rights to the associated intellectual property is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our ability to satisfy consumer tastes and expectations in a consistent manner. The popularity of our content is affected by our ability to maintain or develop our strong brand awareness and reputation and to target key audiences, and by the quality and attractiveness of competing entertainment content and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other offerings. Audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at any point in time. We invest substantial capital in creating and promoting our content, including in the production of original content on our networks, in our films, in our television production business and in our publications, before learning the extent to which it will garner critical success and popularity with consumers.



In our

Cable Networks

and

TV Entertainment

businesses, the popularity of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from advertising, affiliate fees, content licensing, consumer products and other licensing activities, and our ability to expand our presence internationally depends, in part, on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside the U.S. In addition, the success of our

Publishing

business is similarly dependent on audience acceptance of its publications.  In our

Filmed Entertainment

business, the theatrical performance of a film affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also revenues from other distribution outlets, such as TVOD and SVOD, television, home entertainment and licensed consumer products. Additionally, a shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of our programming that we expect to distribute or the sports events for which we have acquired rights, could lead to decreased profitability or losses for a significant period of time. Significant negative claims or publicity regarding the Company or its operations, products, management, employees, practices, business partners and culture may damage our brands or reputation, even if such claims are untrue.  A lack of popularity of our offerings or damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in a particular period or over a longer term.



Increased costs for programming, films and other rights, and judgments we make on the potential performance of our content, may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations



In ourTV EntertainmentandCable Networkssegments, we produce a significant amount of original programming and other content and we invest significant resources in our brands, in part with the aim of developing higher quality and quantity of original content, and we also derive a portion of our revenue from the exploitation of our extensive library of television programming. In ourFilmed Entertainmentsegment, we invest significant amounts in the production, marketing and distribution of films and television series. We also acquire programming, films and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings, and we pay license fees, royalties and/or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. For example, some of CBS Television Network’s most widely viewed broadcasts, including golf’s Masters Tournament, NFL games and series such asYoung Sheldon, are made available based upon programming rights of varying duration that we have negotiated with third parties. We also license various music rights from the major record companies, music publishers and performing rights organizations.



Our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties, and rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with the success of all kinds of programming. Competition for popular content is intense, and we may have to increase the price we are willing to pay for talent and intellectual property rights, which may result in significantly increased costs. Further, increased competition in the market for development and production of original programming, such as from Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Hulu, Netflix and YouTube, and streaming services by large entertainment companies, increases our content costs as they introduce different ways of compensating talent and approaching production.  We may be outbid by our competitors for the rights to new, popular programming or in connection with the renewals of popular programming that we currently license. Finally, certain of our counterparties and vendors may encounter financial and operational pressures, which could result in increased costs to us or delays in production. As such, there can be no assurance that we will recoup our investments in programming, films and other content when the content is broadcast or distributed. If our content offerings cease to be widely accepted by audiences or are not continuously replenished with popular content, our revenues could be adversely affected.



I-27









The accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming and films requires that we make judgments about their potential success and useful life. We initially estimate the ultimate revenues of a television program or film and then update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on expected future and actual results, including following a television program’s initial broadcast or a film’s initial theatrical release.  If our estimates prove to be incorrect or are reduced, it may result in decreased profitability as a result of the accelerated recognition of the expense and/or write-down of the value of the asset. Similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our broadcast or cable networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs.



These factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



The loss of key talent could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations



Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. For example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce films with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. These individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, films and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining them or new talent will be reasonable. If we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.



Our businesses operate in industries that are highly competitive and swiftly consolidating





Our ability to obtain widespread distribution on favorable terms, which contributes to our ability to attract audiences and, in turn, advertisers, is adversely affected by the consolidation of advertising agencies, programmers, content providers, distributors (including telecom companies) and television service providers. This consolidation reduces the number of distributors with whom we negotiate and increases the negotiating leverage and market power of the combined companies. In addition, consolidation in the film business may adversely affect the distribution of our films on various platforms. Consolidation among book retailers and the growth of online sales and electronic books sales have resulted in increased competition for limited physical shelf space for our publications and for the attention of consumers online.



In addition, our competitors generally include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas ourCable Networksbusiness generally relies on distribution relationships with third parties. As more cable and satellite operators, Internet service providers, telecom companies and other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant



I-28







competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms for distribution or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. Our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information, as well as significant financial resources.



This competition and consolidation could result in lower ratings and advertising, lower affiliate and other revenues, and increased content costs and promotional and other expenses, negatively affecting our ability to generate revenues and profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors, or that competition or consolidation in the marketplace will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Because we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of distributors, the loss of affiliation and distribution agreements, renewal on less favorable terms or adverse interpretations could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations



A significant portion of our revenues, particularly fromCable NetworksandTV Entertainment, are attributable to agreements with MVPDs and virtual MVPDs, and other distributors of our programming and program services.  These agreements generally have fixed terms that vary by market and distributor, and there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future, or renewed on favorable terms, including but not limited to those related to pricing and programming tiers.  We may also be unable to modify existing agreements with terms that have over time become less favorable. The loss of existing packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities and the loss of carriage on cable and satellite programming tiers or the failure to renew our agreements with any distributor, or renew or modify them on favorable terms, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both affiliate fees and advertising.



The CBS Television Network provides its affiliates with up to approximately 98 hours of regularly scheduled programming per week. In return, the CBS Television Network’s affiliated stations broadcast network-inserted commercials during that programming and pay us station affiliation fees. Loss of station affiliation agreements of the CBS Television Network could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the reach of our programming and therefore our attractiveness to advertisers, and renewal of these affiliation agreements on less favorable terms may also adversely affect our results of operations.



Consolidation among MVPDs and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast network business have provided more leverage to these distributors and could adversely affect our ability to maintain or obtain distribution for our network programming or distribution and/or marketing of our subscription program services on favorable or commercially reasonable terms, or at all.  Also, consolidation among television station group owners could increase their negotiating leverage. Moreover, competitive pressures faced by MVPDs, particularly in light of the lower retail prices of streaming services, could adversely affect the terms of our renewals with MVPDs.  In addition, MVPDs and streaming services continue to develop alternative offerings for consumers, including “skinny bundles.” To the extent these packages do not include our programming and become widely accepted in lieu of traditional program packages, we could experience a decline in affiliate revenues.



Similarly, our revenues are dependent on the compliance of major distributors with the terms of our affiliation or distribution agreements. As these agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation with respect to our rights and obligations. For example, some of our distribution agreements contain “most favored nation” (“MFN”) clauses, which provide that if we enter into an agreement with a distributor and such agreement includes specified terms that are more favorable than those held by a distributor holding an MFN right, we must offer some of those terms to the distributor holding the MFN right. These clauses are generally complex and may lead to disagreement over their interpretation and application. Disagreements with a distributor on the interpretation or validity of an agreement could adversely impact our revenues from both affiliate fees and advertising, as well as our relationship with that distributor.



These factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



I-29









The integration of the CBS and Viacom businesses may not be successful or may be more difficult, time consuming or costly than expected.Synergies and other benefits may not be realized within the expected time frames, or at all.Operating costs, customer loss and business disruption may be greater than expected and revenues may be lower than expected following the Merger.  Our ongoing investment in new businesses, products, services and technologies present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we had contemplated.



Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the businesses of the combined companies in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and achieves the projected standalone cost savings and revenue growth trends that have been identified without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. The failure to meet the challenges involved in combining CBS’ and Viacom’s businesses following the Merger and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger, including expected synergies, could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of ViacomCBS and could adversely affect the results of operations of ViacomCBS. The overall combination of our businesses may also result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, and loss of customer and other business relationships. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others:



•the diversion of management attention to integration matters;



•difficulties in integrating operations and systems, including administrative and information technology infrastructure and financial reporting and internal control systems;



•challenges in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the two companies;



•difficulties in integrating employees and attracting and retaining key personnel, including talent;



•challenges in retaining existing, and obtaining new customers, viewers, suppliers, distributors, licensors, employees and others, including material content providers, studios, producers, directors, actors, authors and other talent, and advertisers;



•difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, financing plans and growth prospects from the combination;



•difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company;



•challenges in continuing to develop valuable and widely accepted content and technologies;



•contingent liabilities that are larger than expected; and



•potential unknown liabilities, adverse consequences and unforeseen increased expenses associated with the Merger.



In addition, even if our operations are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the Merger may not be realized, including, among others, the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. Further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our businesses. Many of these factors are outside of our control, and any one of them could result in lower revenues, higher costs and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.



In the past, we have acquired and invested, and expect to continue to acquire and invest, in new businesses, products, services and technologies as part of our ongoing strategic initiatives. Such acquisitions and strategic initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including the types described above as well as insufficient revenues from such investments to offset any new liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the new



I-30







investments, unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such investments and incur unanticipated liabilities and a failure to successfully further develop an acquired business or technology. Because new investments are inherently risky, and the anticipated benefits or value of these investments may not materialize, no assurance can be given that such investments and other strategic initiatives will not adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Service disruptions or failures of, or cybersecurity attacks upon, our or our service providers’ networks, information systems and other technologies could result in the disclosure of confidential or valuable business or personal information, disruption of our businesses, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses





We operate communications and computer hardware Systems located both in our facilities and that of third-party providers. In addition, we use third-party “cloud” computing services in connection with our business operations. We also use content delivery networks to help us stream programming, films and other content in high volume to viewers and users of our online, mobile and app offerings over the internet. Problems faced by us, our hosting providers, our third-party “cloud” computing or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity attacks and regulatory interference, could result in a disruption of our operations and reduction of our revenues, adversely impact the experience of our viewers and users, and could damage our reputation and brands.





If a material breach of our Systems or those of our third-party providers occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose subscribers, viewers, advertisers and other



I-31







business partners, and users of our online, mobile and app offerings; and our reputation, brands and credibility could be damaged; and we could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair or replace such Systems or to comply with regulatory requirements. We could also be subject to actions by regulatory authorities and claims asserted in private litigation. The costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate us for any losses associated with such events.



Each of these factors could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations.



We are subject to complex, often inconsistent and potentially costly laws, rules, regulations, industry standards and contractual obligations relating to privacy and personal data protection





Each of these factors could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations.



The failure, destruction and/or breach of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our programming could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations



We use satellite systems, fiber and other methods to transmit our programs and program services to broadcast television and cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, failures or impairments of communications satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming or other similar events. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming, and if a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that such failure or disruption would not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Theft of our content, including digital copyright theft and other unauthorized uses of our content, reduces revenue received from legitimate distribution of our programming, films, books and other entertainment content and adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations



The success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights. We are fundamentally a content company and theft of our content - specifically, the infringement of our films and home entertainment products, television programming, digital content, books and other intellectual property rights - affects us and the value of our content.  Intellectual property theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that either lack effective laws and technical protection measures similar to those existing in the U.S. and Europe or



I-32







lack effective enforcement of such measures, or both. Such foreign copyright theft often creates a supply of pirated content for major markets as well. The interpretation of copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws as applied to our content, and our infringement-detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of enforcement have encountered political opposition. The failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and thus negatively affect its value.



Content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. We and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and films, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. The continuing proliferation of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. The unauthorized distribution and consumption of our content through a wide array of platforms and devices remain problematic and an ever-present challenge, as Internet-connected televisions, set-top boxes and mobile devices are ubiquitous and many can support illegal re-transmission platforms, illicit video-on-demand/streaming services and pre-loaded hardware, providing more accessible, versatile and legitimate-looking environments for consuming pirated film and television content. Unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of films, television programs or other content as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected content and our ability to monetize our content.



Copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public’s and some affiliate partners’ perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such content. While legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to engage in copyright theft continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. Efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Political and economic conditions in a variety of markets around the world could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations



Our businesses operate and have audiences, customers and partners worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. For that reason, economic conditions in many different markets around the world affect a number of aspects of our businesses, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment distribution, television licensing and sales of consumer products. Economic conditions in each market can also impact our audience’s discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content, as well as the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks, causing them to reduce their spending on advertising. We may also be subject to longer payment cycles. In addition, as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar (compared to, for example, the Argentinian peso, the British pound and the Euro, among others) has increased. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain stable in any period.



Our businesses are also exposed to certain political risks inherent in conducting a global business, including retaliatory actions by governments reacting to changes in the U.S. and other countries, including in connection with trade negotiations; issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and enforcement of anti-corruption laws and regulations; increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets; escalating trade, immigration and nuclear disputes; wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities; and other political, economic or other uncertainties.





I-33







The UK left the EU on January 31, 2020. It is now in a ‘transition period’ scheduled to end on December 31, 2020 that allows the negotiation of a future UK-EU trade relationship while remaining part of the EU Single Market. Depending on the ultimate terms of a trade deal, the UK could lose access to the single EU market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the EU on behalf of its members. It is p

ossible that the UK could revert to World Trade Organization terms if no deal is reached.

The effects of Brexit and the on-going trade negotiations may continue to adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic and market conditions in the UK, the Eurozone, the EU and elsewhere and contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the Euro and the British Pound. A new trade deal, or no deal at all, could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability and uncertainty in the EU, including changes in the regulatory environment, which could impact our ability to use UK law under “country of origin” rules for programming in the EU, potential trade barriers between the UK and the EU and between the UK and other countries, and potential content production quota regulations. Given that a portion of our business is conducted in the EU, including the UK, any of these effects of Brexit and a trade deal, and others we cannot anticipate, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



These political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses, financial condition or results of operations.



Changes in U.S.or foreign laws or regulations may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations



Our program services, filmed entertainment and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and/or in the foreign jurisdictions in which we or our partners operate, including relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection, anti-corruption, repatriation of profits, tax regimes, quotas, tariffs or other trade barriers, currency exchange controls, operating license and permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, export and market access restrictions, and exceptions and limitations on copyright and censorship, among others.





The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations, and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operation and ownership of our television properties. For example, from time to time, proposals have been advanced in the U.S. Congress and at the FCC to require television stations to provide advertising time to political candidates for free or at a reduced charge.  Any restrictions on advertising may adversely affect our advertising revenues. Changes to the media ownership and other FCC rules may affect the competitive landscape in ways that could increase the competition faced by us. Proposals have also been advanced from time to time before the U.S. Congress and the FCC to extend the program access rules (currently applicable only to those cable program services which also own or are owned in whole or in part by cable distribution or telephone company systems) to all cable program services.  Our ability to



I-34







obtain the most favorable terms available for our content could be adversely affected should such an extension be enacted into law. It is difficult to predict the likelihood or impact of any proposed actions by the U.S. Congress or the FCC on our television properties.



Laws in some non-U.S. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S., and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business.  In addition, changes in or new interpretations of international laws and regulations governing the broadcast and distribution of content, competition and the Internet, including those affecting data privacy, as well as the new EU law requiring 30% local content on SVOD services and proposed amendments to the law governing territorial exclusivity of the distribution of content in Europe, may have an adverse impact on our international businesses and digital properties.



Our businesses are also subject to laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally governing the collection, use, sharing, protection and retention of personal data, which has implications for how such data is managed. For example, GDPR expands the regulation of personal data processing throughout the EU and significantly increases penalties for non-compliance. Complying with these laws and regulations could be costly, require us to change our business practices, or limit or restrict aspects of our business in a manner adverse to our business operations. Many of these laws and regulations continue to evolve, and substantial uncertainty surrounds their scope and application.  Our failure to comply could result in exposure to enforcement by U.S. or foreign governments, as well as significant negative publicity and reputational damage.



Our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, changes in existing laws, changes in interpretations of existing laws by courts and regulators and the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce our legal rights. We could be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. We could also incur substantial costs to comply with new and existing laws and regulations, or substantial fines and penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply with such laws and regulations.



Vigorous enforcement or modification of FCC indecency and other program content rules against the broadcast and cable industries could have an adverse effect on our businesses and results of operations







I-35







We could be subject to material liabilities as a result of adoption of or changes in tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies



We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies in the federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate, and these rates may be subject to significant change. Our tax returns are routinely audited and litigation, adverse outcomes, or settlements may occur because tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken, including our methodologies for intercompany arrangements. Additionally, shifting economic and political conditions may result in significant changes to tax policies, laws or tax rates in various jurisdictions. Such changes, litigation, adverse outcomes, or audit settlements may result in the recognition of additional charges to our income tax provision in any given period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or cash payments and may therefore adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.



Volatility and weakness in capital markets may adversely affect our credit availability and related financing costs



Bank and capital markets can experience periods of volatility and disruption. If the disruption in these markets is prolonged, our ability to refinance, and the related cost of refinancing, some or all of our debt could be adversely affected. Although we can currently access the bank and capital markets, there is no assurance that such markets will continue to be a reliable source of financing for us. In addition, our access to and cost of borrowing can be affected by our short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by ratings agencies. In addition, the interest rates included in certain agreements that govern certain of our debt securities and/or credit facilities may be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). In the future, use of LIBOR may be discontinued and we cannot be certain how long LIBOR will continue to be a viable benchmark interest rate. Use of alternative interest rates could result in increased borrowing costs or volatility in the markets and interest rates. These factors, including the tightening of credit markets, or a decrease in our debt ratings, could adversely affect our ability to obtain cost-effective financing.



We could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity



We and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors, musicians and other talent, production crew members, trade employees, players in sports leagues and others who are subject to industry-wide or specially-negotiated collective bargaining agreements, and occasionally individual agreements. The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP) is a multi-employer trade association that, along with and on behalf of hundreds of member companies including Paramount Pictures and CBS Studios, negotiates the industry-wide collective bargaining agreements with these parties, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. The Writers Guild of America contract expires on May 1, 2020, and the Directors Guild of America and Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists contracts expire on June 30, 2020.  The AMPTP expects to negotiate successor deals with these guilds and unions in the coming months. Any labor disputes that arise may disrupt our operations and cause delays in the production of our programming, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. Depending on its duration, any lockout, labor dispute, strike or work stoppage could have an adverse effect on our revenues, cash flows and/or operating income and/or their timing.



Our revenues, expenses and operating results may vary based on the timing, mix, number and availability of our films and other programming and on seasonal factors



Our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and/or availability of our theatrical films, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. For example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period relative to the corresponding period in the prior year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released, the commencement of a license period or the timing of delivery of programming to licensees for exhibition. Our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are generally incurred before and throughout the theatrical release of a film, with the recognition of related revenues through the film’s theatrical exhibition and subsequent distribution windows.





I-36







Our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences’ viewing, reading and attendance habits.  Typically, our revenue from advertising is highest in the first and fourth quarters. In theCable Networkssegment, advertising is typically highest in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season, among other factors. In theTV Entertainmentsegment, advertising revenues benefit principally in the first quarter of the years in which we telecast the Super Bowl and NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Tournament National Semifinals and Championship and in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season and, in even-numbered years, advertising placed by candidates for political offices.Revenues from theFilmed Entertainmentsegment’s theatrical film releases tend to be cyclical with increases during the summer. ThePublishingsegment is subject to increased periods of demand during the summer and year-end holiday season. The effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the previous results of any specific quarter.



We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets, FCC licenses and programming



We test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including FCC licenses, for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events or circumstances require an interim impairment assessment. Certain future events and circumstances, including deterioration of market conditions, higher cost of capital, a decline in advertising markets, a decrease in audience acceptance of our programming or films, a shift by advertisers to competing advertising platforms and/or changes in consumer behavior could result in a downward revision in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets, including FCC licenses, which could result in a non-cash impairment charge. Any such impairment charge for goodwill, intangible assets and/or programming could have a material adverse effect on our reported net earnings.



Our liabilities related to discontinued operations and former businesses could adversely impact our financial conditions



We have both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, certain of which are unrelated to the media business, including leases, guarantees, environmental liabilities, liabilities related to the pensions and medical expenses of retirees, asbestos liabilities, contractual disputes and other pending and threatened litigation. We cannot be assured that our accruals for these matters are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due. Therefore, there can be no assurances that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, operating performance or cash flow.



Risks Relating to NAI’s Voting Control of ViacomCBS and Pledged Shares



NAI, through its voting control of ViacomCBS, will be in a position to control actions that require stockholder approval



NAI, through its direct and indirect ownership of our Class A Common Stock, has voting control of ViacomCBS.  At December 31, 2019, NAI directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.4% of the shares of our Class A Common Stock outstanding, and approximately 10.2% of the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock outstanding on a combined basis. Sumner M. Redstone is the beneficial owner of the controlling interest in NAI and, accordingly, beneficially owns all such shares. Mr. Redstone is the controlling stockholder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of NAI.  Shari E. Redstone, the President and a director of NAI, serves as non-executive Chair of the ViacomCBS Board of Directors (the “ViacomCBS Board”). NAI is controlled by Mr. Redstone through the Sumner M. Redstone National Amusements Trust (the “SMR Trust”), which owns 80% of the voting interest of NAI, and such voting interest of NAI held by the SMR Trust is voted solely by Mr. Redstone until his incapacity or death. The SMR Trust provides that in the event of Mr. Redstone’s death or incapacity, voting control of the NAI voting interest held by the SMR Trust will pass to seven trustees, who will include Ms. Redstone. No member of our management is a trustee of the SMR Trust.





I-37







Subject to the terms of the Governance Agreement dated as of August 13, 2019, which is incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including amending ViacomCBS’ bylaws, the election or removal of directors and transactions involving a change of control. For example, the ViacomCBS bylaws provide that:



•the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the aggregate voting power of all outstanding shares of our capital stock then entitled to vote generally in an election of directors, voting together as a single class, is required for our stockholders to amend, alter, change, repeal or adopt any of our bylaws;



•any or all of our directors may be removed from office at any time prior to the expiration of his or her term of office, with or without cause, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of record of outstanding shares representing at least a majority of all the aggregate voting power of outstanding shares of our Common Stock then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class at a special meeting of our stockholders called expressly for that purpose; provided that during the two-year period following the closing date of the ViacomCBS Merger, the removal of our Chief Executive Officer requires the approval of the ViacomCBS Board by the “Requisite Approval” (as defined in the ViacomCBS certificate of incorporation incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this Annual Report on Form 10-K); provided further, that during the two-year period following the closing date, NAI and NAI Entertainment Holdings LLC are not permitted to remove any other persons who were members of the ViacomCBS Board at the effective time of the Merger in accordance with the Merger Agreement or who otherwise become members the ViacomCBS Board (other than any of the NAI Affiliated Directors (as defined in the bylaws)) without the Requisite Approval; and



•in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, our stockholders may act by written consent without a meeting if such stockholders hold the number of shares representing not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such actions at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted.



Accordingly, ViacomCBS stockholders who may have different interests are unable to affect the outcome of any such corporate actions for so long as NAI retains voting control. For more information, see the Governance Agreement incorporated by reference as an exhibit in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Sales of NAI’s shares of ViacomCBS Common Stock, some of which are pledged to lenders, could adversely affect the stock price



At December 31, 2019, NAI directly or indirectly owned approximately 79.4% of the shares of our Class A Common Stock outstanding, and approximately 10.2% of the shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock outstanding on a combined basis. Based on information received from NAI, NAI has pledged to its lenders a portion of shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock owned directly or indirectly by NAI.



At December 31, 2019, the aggregate number of shares of our Common Stock pledged by NAI to its lenders represented approximately 4.1% of the total outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock and our Class B Common Stock, on a combined basis. At December 31, 2019, the amount of our Class A Common Stock that NAI directly or indirectly owned and that was not pledged by NAI to its lenders represented approximately 64.0% of the total outstanding shares of our Class A Common Stock.



If there is a default on NAI’s debt obligations and the lenders foreclose on the pledged shares, the lenders may not effect a transfer, sale or disposition of any pledged shares of our Class A Common Stock, unless NAI and its affiliates beneficially own 50% or less of our Class A Common Stock then outstanding or such shares have first been converted into our Class B Common Stock. A sale of the pledged shares could adversely affect our Common Stock share price.  In addition, there can be no assurance that at some future time NAI will not sell or pledge additional shares of our Common Stock, which could adversely affect our Common Stock share price.





I-38









