Item 1.Business

Introduction

Synopsys, Inc. is a world leader in providing technology solutions used to develop electronics and electronic systems. We supply the
electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design, create prototypes for and test integrated circuits, also known as chips. We also supply software and hardware used to develop the systems that incorporate integrated circuits
and the software that runs on those integrated circuits. Our intellectual property (IP) products are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than redesigning those circuits themselves. To complement these
product offerings, we provide technical services to support our solutions and we help our customers develop chips and electronic systems.

Corporate
Information

We incorporated in 1986 in North Carolina and reincorporated in Delaware in 1987. Our headquarters are located at 700
East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043, and our telephone number there is (650) 584-5000. We have approximately 70 offices worldwide.

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Proxy Statements relating to our annual meetings of stockholders, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as well
as filings made by our executive officers and directors, are available on our Internet website(www.synopsys.com)free of charge. We post these reports to our website as soon as practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (www.sec.gov). The contents of our website are not part of this Form 10-K.

Background

The proliferation of consumer and wireless products, the growth of the Internet, and the development of higher speed computers and more robust
visual communication systems, as well as the increasing electronics content in automotive, defense and other applications, has created demand for integrated circuits and systems with greater functionality and performance, reduced size, and less
power consumption, at lower prices. These demands, as well as ever-shortening time-to-market requirements, introduce challenges for all participants in the production of these products, from designers and manufacturers of chips and electronic
systems to equipment manufacturers.

It is not uncommon for a single chip to contain many discrete sections (processor, communications,
memory, custom logic, input/output) that may have been implemented on separate chips in previous generations. This combination of many chips into a single System-on-Chip (SoC) results in highly complex designs. The most complex chips today contain
more than a billion transistors, the basic building blocks for integrated circuits, each of which may have features that are less than 1/1,000th the diameter of a human hair.

The designer’s task is to determine where each of those billion transistors should be located and how they should be connected to each other, verify that the resulting design behaves as intended, and ensure
that the design can be manufactured cost-effectively. This task is a complicated, multi-step process which is both expensive and time-consuming. Errors can be especially costly.

Synopsys provides the software tools, hardware and other technologies to help designers of complex integrated circuits and systems. We offer a wide
range of products that address the different







steps in the overall design process, both for the design of individual integrated circuits and for the design of larger systems. Synopsys products can increase designer productivity and
efficiency by automating tasks, keeping track of large amounts of design data, adding intelligence to the design process, facilitating reuse of past designs and reducing errors. Our global service and support engineers also provide expert technical
support and design assistance to our customers.

Products and Services

Our products and services are organized into four groups: Core EDA (which includes the Galaxy™ Design Platform, the Discovery™ Verification Platform and our FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array) design
products), Intellectual Property (IP) and System-Level Solutions, Manufacturing Solutions, and Professional Services.

Core EDA
products

The process of designing integrated circuits contains many complex steps: architecture definition, RTL (register
transfer level) design, functional/RTL verification, logic design or synthesis, gate-level verification, floorplanning, and place and route, to name just a few. Designers use our Core EDA products to automate the integrated circuit design process
and to reduce errors. We offer a large number of Core EDA products intended to address the process comprehensively. Our Core EDA products generally fall into the following suites: the Galaxy Design Platform, which includes tools to design an
integrated circuit, the Discovery Verification Platform, which includes tools to verify that an integrated circuit behaves as intended, and the FPGA design products.

Galaxy Design Platform

Our Galaxy Design Platform provides our customers with a single,
integrated chip design solution that includes industry-leading individual products and incorporates common libraries and consistent timing, delay calculation and constraints throughout the design process. The platform allows designers the
flexibility to integrate internally-developed and third-party tools. With this advanced functionality, common foundation and flexibility, our Galaxy Design Platform helps reduce design times, decrease integration costs and minimize the risks
inherent in advanced, complex integrated circuit designs. Our products span both digital and analog/mixed-signal designs.

The principal products included in the Galaxy Design Platform are the IC Compiler™ physical design solution, Design Compiler®logic synthesis product, Galaxy Custom
Designer®physical design solution for analog/mixed-signal designs, PrimeTime®/PrimeTime SI timing analysis products, StarRC™ product for extraction, and the Hercules™ and IC Validator physical verification product family.

The Lynx Design System is a production-ready chip implementation environment that combines a complete Galaxy-based design flow, GUI-based runtime
automation, design metrics capture and reporting, and utilities that automate the configuration of pre-validated foundry data. The Lynx Design System helps customers improve their productivity and optimally deploy Synopsys tools and methodologies.

Discovery Verification Platform

Our Discovery Verification Platform is a comprehensive, integrated portfolio of functional, analog/mixed-signal, formal and low-power verification products. The platform includes our simulation and verification
products and design-for-verification methodologies, and provides a consistent control environment to help significantly improve the speed, breadth and accuracy of our customers’







verification efforts. The Discovery Verification Platform’s components support industry standards and span both digital and analog/mixed-signal designs.

The principal products included in the Discovery Verification Platform are the VCS®comprehensive RTL verification solution,
Formality®formal verification sign-off solution, NanoSim®FastSPICE circuit simulation and analysis product,
HSIM®hierarchical FastSPICE circuit simulation and analysis product, HSPICE®circuit simulator, and CustomSim™ circuit simulation solution.

FPGA Design Products

FPGAs are complex chips that can be customized or
programmed to perform a specific function after they are manufactured. For FPGA design, we offer Synplify®Pro and Premier
implementation and Identify®debug software tools.

Intellectual Property (IP) and System-Level Solutions

IP Products

As more functionality converges into a single device, the
number of third-party provided IP blocks is rapidly increasing. Synopsys is a leading provider of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for SoC designs. The broad DesignWare IP portfolio includes high quality solutions for widely used interfaces
such as USB, PCI Express®, DDR, Ethernet, SATA and HDMI. In addition, Synopsys offers analog IP for high definition video,
analog-to-digital data conversion, and audio. With our recent acquisition of Virage Logic Corporation, we added embedded memories, including SRAMs and non-volatile memory, logic libraries, embedded test and repair IP and configurable processor
cores, to our IP portfolio.

System-Level Solutions

Today’s complex chips are really SoCs. By optimizing the design earlier in the development cycle, at the system level, customers can reduce time-to-market, development costs and power consumption. Synopsys has
the industry’s broadest portfolio of tools, models and services for the system-level design of SoCs. Primary system-level products include Platform Architect™ for architectural optimization, SPW™ and System Studio™ for algorithm
design, Processor Designer™ for custom processor design, and Synphony Model™ and C Compiler for High Level Synthesis.

In
addition to these tools for the system-level design of SoCs, our portfolio includes prototyping tools for hardware verification, software development and hardware-software integration. With FPGA-based prototyping systems (HAPS), designers can speed
embedded software development by three to six months with near real runtime speeds and real world interfaces, such as our pre-tested DesignWare IP components. The HAPS hardware systems are a modular, scalable and accurate way to model a chip.

Virtual prototypes are fully functional software models of an SoC or OEM system. Our virtual prototyping solutions enable software
engineers to start SoC and application software up to twelve months before traditional methods.

Manufacturing Solutions

As technology progresses, features on integrated circuits become smaller and more difficult to manufacture, which results in
lower yields of usable chips. Our Manufacturing Solutions products and technologies address this problem by introducing manufacturability and yield considerations early in the design process, thereby improving yields. For example, some of our
Manufacturing Solutions







address mask-making and yield enhancement of very small-geometry integrated circuits, as well as high-level modeling of physical effects within the integrated circuit.

Our Manufacturing Solutions include the Technology-CAD (TCAD) device modeling products, Proteus OPC optical proximity
correction (OPC) products, CATS®mask data preparation product, and Yield Management solutions, including Odyssey and
Recipe Manager and Editor (RME), and Yield Explorer.

Professional Services and Training

Synopsys provides consulting and design services that address all phases of the SoC development process. These services assist Synopsys customers
with new tool and methodology adoption, chip architecture and specification development, functional and low power design and verification, and physical implementation and signoff. We also provide a broad range of expert training and workshops on our
latest tools and methodologies.

Customer Service and Technical Support

A high level of customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide technical support for our products through both field-based and corporate-based application
engineering teams. Customers who purchase Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs) receive software maintenance services bundled with their license fee. Customers who purchase term licenses and perpetual licenses may purchase these services
separately. SeeProduct Sales and Licensing Agreementsbelow.

Software maintenance services include minor product enhancements,
bug fixes and access to our technical support center for primary support. Software maintenance also includes access to SolvNet, our web-based support solution that gives customers access to Synopsys’ complete design knowledge database. Updated
daily, SolvNet includes documentation, design tips and answers to user questions. Customers can also engage, for additional charges, our worldwide network of applications consultants for additional support needs.

In addition, Synopsys also offers training workshops designed to increase customer design proficiency and productivity with our products. Workshops
cover Synopsys products and methodologies used in our design and verification flows, as well as specialized modules addressing system design, logic design, physical design, simulation and test. We offer regularly scheduled public and private courses
in a variety of locations worldwide, as well as Virtual Classroom on-demand and live online training.

Product Warranties

We generally warrant our products to be free from defects in media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a period of
90 days for our software products and for up to six months for our hardware products. In certain cases, we also provide our customers with limited indemnification with respect to claims that their use of our software products infringe on United
States patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets. We have not experienced material warranty or indemnity claims to date, although we are currently defending some of our customers against claims that their use of one of our products infringes
on a patent held by a Japanese electronics company.

Support for Industry Standards

We actively create and support standards that help our customers increase productivity, facilitate efficient design flows, improve interoperability
of tools from different vendors, and ensure connectivity,







functionality and interoperability of IP building blocks. Standards in the electronic design industry can be established by formal accredited organizations, from industry consortia, by company
licensing made available to all, from de facto usage, or through open source licensing.

Synopsys’ products support more than 60
standards, including the most commonly used hardware description languages: SystemVerilog, Verilog, VHDL, and SystemC. Our products utilize numerous industry standard data formats, application programming interfaces, and databases for the exchange
of design data among our tools, other EDA vendors’ products, and applications that customers develop internally. We also comply with a wide range of industry standards within our IP product family to ensure usability and interconnectivity.

Sales, Distribution and Backlog

We market our products and services primarily through direct sales in the United States and principal foreign markets. We typically distribute our
software products and documentation to customers electronically, but provide physical media (i.e., CD-ROMs) when requested by the customer.

We maintain sales/support centers throughout the United States. Outside the United States, we maintain sales, support or service offices in Canada, multiple countries in Europe, Israel, Japan, and other countries
in Asia. Our foreign headquarters is located in Dublin, Ireland. Our offices are further described under Part I, Item 2,Properties.

In fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, an aggregate of 52%, 51% and 50%, respectively, of Synopsys’ total revenue was derived from sales outside of the United States. Additional information relating to domestic and
foreign operations, including revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, is contained in Note 12 ofNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsin Part II, Item 8.Financial Statements and Supplementary Dataand is
included herein.

Synopsys’ backlog was approximately $2.4 billion on October 31, 2010, representing a 9% increase from
backlog of $2.2 billion on October 31, 2009. This increase resulted primarily from the timing of large contract renewals and backlog acquired from the various acquisitions which occurred in fiscal 2010, and to a lesser extent, by the
strength of the Japanese yen in fiscal 2010. Backlog represents committed orders that are expected to be recognized as revenue over the following three years. Backlog may not be a reliable predictor of our future sales as business conditions may
change and technologies may evolve, and customers may seek to renegotiate their arrangements or default on their payment obligations. For this and other reasons, we may not be able to recognize expected revenue from backlog when anticipated.

The following table summarizes the revenue attributable to our four common groupings, or platforms, established for management
reporting purposes as a percentage of total revenue for the last three fiscal years.



Fiscal Years201020092008Core EDA71%74%75%Intellectual Property and System-Level Solutions13%10%8%Manufacturing Solutions12%12%12%Professional Services and Other4%4%5%Consolidated100%100%100%

Revenue derived from Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries in the aggregate accounted for 10.9%, 10.8%, and 10.8% of
our total revenue in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.







Research and Development

Our future performance depends in large part on our ability to further enhance and integrate our design and verification platforms and to expand our manufacturing, IP and system-level product offerings. Research
and development on existing and new products is primarily conducted within each product group. We also use targeted acquisitions to augment our own research and development efforts.

Our research and development expenses were $449.2 million, $419.9 million and $394.7 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Our capitalized software development costs were approximately $2.9 million, $3.0 million and $3.0 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Competition

The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other EDA vendors and
against our customers’ own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, post-contract customer support,
interoperability with our own and other vendors’ products, price and payment terms.

Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer
varying ranges of products and services, primarily Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including frequent new entrants to the marketplace, that
offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers’ internally developed design tools and capabilities. In the IP area, we compete primarily with our customers’ internally developed
IP. No one factor drives an EDA customer’s buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers’ budgets.

Product Sales and Licensing Agreements

We
typically license our software to customers under non-exclusive license agreements that transfer title to the media only and restrict use of our software to specified purposes within specified geographical areas. The majority of our licenses are
network licenses that allow a number of individual users to access the software on a defined network, including, in some cases, regional or global networks. License fees depend on the type of license, product mix and number of copies of each product
licensed.

In many cases, we provide our customers the right to “re-mix” a portion of the software they initially licensed for
other specified Synopsys products. For example, a customer may use our front-end design products for a portion of the license term and then exchange such products for back-end place and route software for the remainder of the term in order to
complete the customer’s IC design. This practice helps assure the customer’s access to the complete design flow needed to design its product. The ability to offer this right to customers often gives us an advantage over competitors who
offer a narrower range of products, because customers can obtain more of their design flow from a single vendor. At the same time, because in such cases the customer need not obtain a new license and pay an additional license fee for the use of the
additional products, the use of these arrangements could result in reduced revenue compared to licensing the individual products separately without re-mix rights.

We currently offer our software products under various license types: renewable TSLs, term licenses and perpetual licenses. For a full discussion of these licenses, see Part II, Item 7.Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesandResults of Operations—Revenue Background.







We typically license our DesignWare Core intellectual property products under nonexclusive license
agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties.

Finally, our Global Technical Services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project.

Proprietary Rights

Synopsys primarily
relies upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and license and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect its proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 1,200 patents issued. Our issued
patents have expiration dates through 2030. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However,
third parties may develop similar technology independently. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. We currently hold United States and foreign patents on some of the
technologies included in our products and will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. We are not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark or license with respect to our proprietary rights.

In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on
a third party’s intellectual property rights. As a result, we are from time to time subject to claims that our products infringe on these third party rights. For example, we are currently defending some of our customers against claims that
their use of one of our products infringes on a patent held by a Japanese electronics company. We believe this claim is without merit and will continue to vigorously defend against it.

Employees

As of October 31, 2010, Synopsys had 6,707 employees, of which 3,063 were based
in the United States.

Acquisitions in Fiscal 2010

For information about acquisitions we completed during fiscal 2010, see Note 3 ofNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementswhich information is included herein.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The
executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 16, 2010, were:



NameAgePositionAart J. de Geus56Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of DirectorsChi-Foon Chan61President and Chief Operating OfficerBrian M. Beattie57Chief Financial OfficerJoseph W. Logan51Senior Vice President, Worldwide SalesBrian E. Cabrera45Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Aart J. de
Geusco-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February 1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, he has held a variety of positions at Synopsys,
including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. Dr. de Geus has served as a







director since 1986, and also served as Chairman of the Board from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University.

Chi-Foon Chanhas
served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997 and as our President and a member of our Board since February 1998. Dr. Chan joined Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President,
Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February 1994 to April 1997. Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation.
Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from Case Western Reserve University.

Brian M. Beattiehas served as our Chief Financial Officer since January 2006. From October 1999 to January 2006, he was Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of
SupportSoft, Inc. From May 1998 to May 1999, he served as Vice President of Finance, Mergers and Acquisitions of Nortel Networks Corporation. From July 1996 to April 1998, Mr. Beattie served as Group Vice President of Meridian Solutions of
Nortel Networks Corporation. From February 1993 to June 1996, Mr. Beattie served as Vice President of Finance, Enterprise Networks, for Nortel Networks Corporation. Mr. Beattie holds a Bachelor of Commerce and an M.B.A. from Concordia
University in Montreal.

Joseph W. Loganhas served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since September 2006.
Previously, he was head of sales for Synopsys’ North America East region from September 2001 to September 2006. Prior to Synopsys, Mr. Logan was head of North American Sales and Support at Avant! Corporation. Mr. Logan holds a
B.S.E.E. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.

Brian E. Cabrerahas served as our Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary since June 2006. From August 1999 to June 2006, he held various positions with Callidus Software, most recently as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and prior to 2004 as General Counsel and Vice President of Operations
and Human Resources. Prior to Callidus, Mr. Cabrera held senior legal positions at PeopleSoft, Netscape Communications, and Silicon Graphics. Mr. Cabrera holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Philosophy and a Masters in Public
Administration from the University of Southern California, as well as a Juris Doctorate from the University of Southern California Law School.

There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors.



