Item 1.Business

Introduction

Synopsys, Inc. is a world leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design, create prototypes for and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. We also
provide software and hardware used to develop the systems that incorporate integrated circuits and the software that runs on those integrated circuits. Our intellectual property (IP) products are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as
components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. To complement these product offerings, we provide technical services to support our solutions and we help our customers develop chips and electronic systems.

Corporate Information

We incorporated in 1986 in North Carolina and reincorporated in Delaware in 1987. Our headquarters are located at 700 East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043, and our telephone number there is
(650) 584-5000. We have approximately 70 offices worldwide.

Our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including
related filings in XBRL format), current reports on Form 8-K, and Proxy Statements relating to our annual meetings of stockholders, and amendments to these reports, as well as filings made by our executive officers and directors, are available
on our Internet website(www.synopsys.com)free of charge. We post these reports to our website as soon as practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC(www.sec.gov). The contents of our website are not part of this
Form 10-K.

Background

Recent years have seen a remarkable proliferation of consumer and wireless electronic products, particularly mobile devices. The growth of the Internet and cloud computing has provided people with new ways to
create, store and share information. At the same time, the increasing use of electronics in cars, buildings, appliances and other consumer products is creating a new landscape of “smart” devices.

These developments depend, in large part, on chips. It is common for a single chip to contain many components (processor, communications, memory,
custom logic, input/output) combined into a single System-on-Chip (SoC), resulting in highly complex chip designs. The most complex chips today contain more than a billion transistors, the basic building blocks for integrated circuits, each of which
may have features that are less than 1/1,000th the diameter of a human hair.

In addition, due to the popularity of mobile devices and
other electronic products, there is increasing demand for integrated circuits and systems with greater functionality and performance, reduced size, and less power consumption, all at shorter times-to-market and lower prices. In other words,
innovation in chip and system design often hinges on “better,” “sooner,” and “cheaper.”

Synopsys plays an
important role in the vibrant electronics market by providing the software tools, hardware and other technologies that designers use to create chips and systems. The designer’s task is to determine how best to locate and connect the IC building
blocks, verifying that the resulting design behaves as intended and ensuring that the design can be manufactured efficiently and cost-effectively. This task is a complicated, multi-step process that is both expensive and time-consuming. We offer a
wide range of products that help designers at different steps in the overall design process, both for the design of individual integrated circuits and for the design of larger systems. Our products can increase designer productivity and efficiency
by automating tasks, keeping track of large amounts of design data, adding intelligence to the design process, facilitating reuse of past designs and reducing errors. Our global service and support engineers also provide expert technical support and
design assistance to our customers.







Products and Services

Revenue from our products and services is reported in four groups: Core EDA (which includes the Galaxy™ Design Platform, the Discovery™ Verification Platform and our FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array)
design products), IP and System-Level Solutions, Manufacturing Solutions, and Professional Services.

Core EDA Solutions

The process of designing integrated circuits contains many complex steps: architecture definition, RTL (register transfer level)
design, functional/RTL verification, logic design or synthesis, gate-level verification, floorplanning, and place and route, to name just a few. Designers use our Core EDA products to automate the integrated circuit design process and to reduce
errors. We offer a large number of Core EDA products intended to address the process comprehensively. Our Core EDA products generally fall into the following suites: the Galaxy Design Platform, which includes tools to design an integrated circuit,
the Discovery Verification Platform, which includes tools to verify that an integrated circuit behaves as intended, and the FPGA design products.

Galaxy Design Platform

Our Galaxy Design Platform provides our customers with a single,
integrated chip design solution that includes industry-leading individual products and incorporates common libraries and consistent timing, delay calculation and constraints throughout the design process. The platform allows designers the
flexibility to integrate internally developed and third-party tools. With this advanced functionality, common foundation and flexibility, our Galaxy Design Platform helps reduce design times, decrease integration costs and minimize the risks
inherent in advanced, complex integrated circuit designs. Our products span both digital and analog/mixed-signal designs.

The principal products included in the Galaxy Design Platform are the IC Compiler™ physical design solution, Design Compiler®logic synthesis product, Galaxy Custom
Designer®physical design solution for analog/mixed-signal designs, PrimeTime®/PrimeTime SI timing analysis products, StarRC™ product for extraction, and IC Validator for physical verification.

Discovery Verification Platform

Our Discovery Verification Platform is a comprehensive, integrated portfolio of functional, analog/mixed-signal, formal and low-power verification products. The platform includes design-for-verification
methodologies and provides a consistent control environment to help significantly improve the speed, breadth and accuracy of our customers’ functional and mixed-signal verification efforts. The Discovery Verification Platform’s components
support industry standards and are tightly coupled together through a direct kernel integration for highest throughput mixed-signal simulation.

The principal products included in the Discovery Verification Platform are the VCS®comprehensive RTL verification solution, CustomSim™ FastSPICE circuit simulation and analysis product, HSPICE®circuit simulator, CustomExplorer™ Ultra mixed-signal regression and analysis environment and Formality®formal
verification sign-off solution.

FPGA Design Products

FPGAs are complex chips that can be customized or programmed to perform a specific function after they are manufactured. For
FPGA design, we offer Synplify®Pro and Premier implementation and Identify®debug software tools.

Manufacturing Solutions

Our Manufacturing Solutions products and technologies enable semiconductor manufacturers to more quickly develop new fabrication
processes that produce production-level yields. These products







are used in the early research and development phase and the production phase. In the production phase, manufacturers use these products to convert IC design layouts into the masks used to
manufacture the devices.

Our Manufacturing Solutions include Technology-CAD (TCAD) device and process simulation
products, Proteus OPC optical proximity correction (OPC) products, CATS®mask data preparation product, and Yield Explorer
and Odyssey Yield Management solutions.

IP and System-Level Solutions

IP Products

As more functionality converges into a single device, the number of third-party provided IP blocks incorporated into chip designs is rapidly increasing. Synopsys is a leading provider of high-quality,
silicon-proven IP solutions for SoCs. The broad DesignWare®IP portfolio includes:



•high quality solutions for widely used interfaces such as USB, PCI Express®, DDR, Ethernet, SATA and HDMI,



•analog IP for high-definition video, analog-to-digital data conversion, and audio,



•SoC infrastructure IP including datapath IP, AMBA interconnect fabric and peripherals, and verification IP,



•logic libraries and embedded memories, including SRAMs and non-volatile memory, and



•configurable processor cores, including video and audio IP solutions.

System-Level Solutions

Optimizing the system-level design earlier in the development cycle,
including both hardware and software components, is increasingly important for customers to meet their performance, time-to-market, and development cost goals. Synopsys has the industry’s broadest portfolio of tools, models and services for the
system-level design of SoCs.

Synopsys’ Platform Architect™ enables early and rapid exploration of SoC architectural
trade-offs. To speed the creation, implementation and verification of differentiated IP blocks, Synopsys offers SPW™ and System Studio™ for algorithm design, Processor Designer™ for custom processor design, and Synphony
Model™ and C Compiler for high-level synthesis.

Escalating software content and complexity in today’s
electronic devices are driving the adoption of new tools and methods to accelerate software development and ease hardware-software integration and system validation. Our system-level portfolio includes prototyping technologies that improve the
productivity of both hardware and software development teams. Synopsys’ Virtualizer™ tool and broad portfolio of transaction-level models enable the creation of virtual prototypes, fully functional software models of complete systems that
enable engineers to start software development up to twelve months earlier than traditional methods. Synopsys’
HAPS®FPGA-based prototyping systems integrate high performance hardware and software tools with real-world interfaces to
enable faster hardware-software integration and full system validation.

Professional Services and Training

Synopsys provides consulting and design services that address all phases of the SoC development process. These services assist Synopsys customers
with new tool and methodology adoption, chip architecture and specification development, functional and low power design and verification, and physical implementation and signoff. We also provide a broad range of expert training and workshops on our
latest tools and methodologies.







Customer Service and Technical Support

A high level of customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide technical support for our
products through both field-based and corporate-based application engineering teams. Customers who purchase Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs) receive software maintenance services bundled with their license fee. Customers who purchase term
licenses and perpetual licenses may purchase these services separately. SeeProduct Sales and Licensing Agreementsbelow.

Software maintenance services include minor product enhancements, bug fixes and access to our technical support center for primary support. Software maintenance also includes access to the SolvNet®portal, our web-based support solution that gives customers access to Synopsys’ complete design knowledge database.
Updated daily, the SolvNet portal includes documentation, design tips and answers to user questions. Customers can also engage, for additional charges, our worldwide network of applications consultants for additional support needs.

In addition, Synopsys also offers training workshops designed to increase customer design proficiency and productivity with our products. Workshops
cover Synopsys products and methodologies used in our design and verification flows, as well as specialized modules addressing system design, logic design, physical design, simulation and test. We offer regularly scheduled public and private courses
in a variety of locations worldwide, as well as Virtual Classroom on-demand and live online training.

Product Warranties

We generally warrant our products to be free from defects in media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a
period of 90 days for our software products and for up to six months for our hardware products. In certain cases, we also provide our customers with limited indemnification with respect to claims that their use of our software products infringe
on United States patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets. We have not experienced material warranty or indemnity claims to date.

Support for Industry Standards

We actively create and support standards that help our customers increase productivity, facilitate efficient design flows, improve interoperability of tools from different vendors, and ensure connectivity,
functionality and interoperability of IP building blocks. Standards in the electronic design industry can be established by formal accredited organizations, from industry consortia, by company licensing made available to all, from de facto usage, or
through open source licensing.

Synopsys’ products support more than 60 standards, including the most commonly used hardware
description languages: SystemVerilog, Verilog, VHDL, and SystemC. Our products utilize numerous industry standard data formats, application programming interfaces, and databases for the exchange of design data among our tools, other EDA
vendors’ products, and applications that customers develop internally. We also comply with a wide range of industry standards within our IP product family to ensure usability and interconnectivity.

Sales, Distribution and Backlog

We market our products and services primarily through direct sales in the United States and principal foreign markets. We typically distribute our software products and documentation to customers electronically,
but provide physical media (i.e., CD-ROMs) when requested by the customer.

We maintain sales/support centers throughout the United
States. Outside the United States, we maintain sales, support or service offices in Canada, multiple countries in Europe, Israel, Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan and other countries in Asia. Our foreign headquarters for financial and tax purposes is
located in Dublin, Ireland. Our offices are further described under Part I, Item 2,Properties.







In fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, an aggregate of 54%, 52% and 51%, respectively, of Synopsys’ total
revenue was derived from sales outside of the United States. Geographic revenue, which is based on the customer site location, is shown below as a percentage of total revenue for the last three fiscal years:



Additional information relating to domestic and foreign operations, including revenue and long-lived assets by
geographic area, is contained in Note 12 ofNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsin Part II, Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Dataand is included herein.

Synopsys’ backlog was approximately $2.5 billion on October 31, 2011, representing a 4% increase from backlog of $2.4 billion on
October 31, 2010 and primarily resulted from the timing of large contract renewals. Backlog represents committed orders that are expected to be recognized as revenue over the following three years. Backlog may not be a reliable predictor of our
future sales as business conditions may change and technologies may evolve, and customers may seek to renegotiate their arrangements or default on their payment obligations. For this and other reasons, we may not be able to recognize expected
revenue from backlog when anticipated.







Revenue attributable to each of our four platforms established for management reporting purposes is
shown below as a percentage of total revenue for the last three fiscal years:



Revenue derived from Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries in the aggregate accounted for 10.6%, 10.9%, and
10.8% of our total revenue in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Research and Development

Our future performance depends in large part on our ability to further enhance and integrate our design and verification platforms and to expand our
manufacturing, IP and system-level product offerings. Research and development on existing and new products is primarily conducted within each product group. We also use targeted acquisitions to augment our own research and development efforts.

Our research and development expenses were $491.9 million, $449.2 million and $419.9 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009,
respectively. Our capitalized software development costs were approximately $3.0 million, $2.9 million and $3.0 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Competition

The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other
EDA vendors and against our customers’ own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, post-contract customer
support, interoperability with our own and other vendors’ products, price and payment terms.

Our competitors include EDA vendors
that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Magma Design Automation, Inc. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including frequent new entrants to the marketplace,
that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers’ internally developed design tools and capabilities. In the IP area, we compete primarily with our customers’ internally
developed IP. No one factor drives an EDA customer’s buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers’ budgets.

Product Sales and Licensing Agreements

We typically license our software to
customers under non-exclusive license agreements that transfer title to the media only and restrict use of our software to specified purposes within specified geographical areas. The majority of our licenses are network licenses that allow a number
of individual users to access







the software on a defined network, including, in some cases, regional or global networks. License fees depend on the type of license, product mix and number of copies of each product licensed.

In many cases, we provide our customers the right to “re-mix” a portion of the software they initially licensed for other
specified Synopsys products. For example, a customer may use our front-end design products for a portion of the license term and then exchange such products for back-end place and route software for the remainder of the term in order to complete the
customer’s IC design. This practice helps assure the customer’s access to the complete design flow needed to design its product. The ability to offer this right to customers often gives us an advantage over competitors who offer a narrower
range of products, because customers can obtain more of their design flow from a single vendor. At the same time, because in such cases the customer need not obtain a new license and pay an additional license fee for the use of the additional
products, the use of these arrangements could result in reduced revenue compared to licensing the individual products separately without re-mix rights.

We currently offer our software products under various license types: renewable TSLs, term licenses and perpetual licenses. For a full discussion of these licenses, see Part II, Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesandResults of Operations—Revenue Background.

We typically license our DesignWare Core intellectual property products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific
applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties.

Finally, our Global
Technical Services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project.

Proprietary Rights

Synopsys primarily relies upon a combination of copyright,
patent, trademark and trade secret laws and license and nondisclosure agreements to establish and protect its proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 1,400 patents issued. Our issued patents have expiration dates through
2031. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may develop similar
technology independently. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. We currently hold United States and foreign patents on some of the technologies included in our products
and will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. We are not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark or license with respect to our proprietary rights.

In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on
a third party’s intellectual property rights. As a result, we are from time to time subject to claims that our products infringe on these third party rights.

Employees

As of October 31, 2011, Synopsys had 6,803 employees, of which
3,003 were based in the United States.

Acquisitions in Fiscal 2011

For information about acquisitions we completed during fiscal 2011, see Note 3 ofNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementswhich
information is included herein.







Executive Officers of the Registrant

The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December15, 2011 were:



NameAgePositionAart J. de Geus57Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of DirectorsChi-Foon Chan62President and Chief Operating OfficerBrian M. Beattie58Chief Financial OfficerJoseph W. Logan52Senior Vice President, Worldwide SalesBrian E. Cabrera46Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

Aart J. de Geusco-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February 1998
and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, he has held a variety of positions at Synopsys, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing.
Dr. de Geus has served as a member of Synopsys’s Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of the Board from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied
Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University.

Chi-Foon Chanhas served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997 and as our President and a member of our Board since February 1998.
Dr. Chan joined Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President, Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February
1994 to April 1997. Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer
Engineering from Case Western Reserve University.

Brian M. Beattiehas served as our Chief Financial Officer since January 2006.
From October 1999 to January 2006, he was Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SupportSoft, Inc. From May 1998 to May 1999, he served as Vice President of Finance, Mergers and Acquisitions of
Nortel Networks Corporation. From July 1996 to April 1998, Mr. Beattie served as Group Vice President of Meridian Solutions of Nortel Networks Corporation. From February 1993 to June 1996, Mr. Beattie served as Vice President of Finance,
Enterprise Networks, for Nortel Networks Corporation. Mr. Beattie has served on the board of directors of Openwave Systems Inc. since December 2010. Mr. Beattie holds a Bachelor of Commerce and an M.B.A. from Concordia University in
Montreal.

Joseph W. Loganhas served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since September 2006. Previously, he was
head of sales for Synopsys’ North America East region from September 2001 to September 2006. Prior to Synopsys, Mr. Logan was head of North American Sales and Support at Avant! Corporation. Mr. Logan holds a B.S.E.E. from the
University of Massachusetts, Amherst.

Brian E. Cabrerahas served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
since June 2006. From August 1999 to June 2006, he held various positions with Callidus Software, most recently as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and prior to 2004 as General Counsel and Vice President of Operations and Human
Resources. Prior to Callidus, Mr. Cabrera held senior legal positions at PeopleSoft, Netscape Communications, and Silicon Graphics. Mr. Cabrera holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Philosophy and a Masters in Public
Administration from the University of Southern California, as well as a Juris Doctorate from the University of Southern California Law School.

There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors.







