Item 1.Business

Introduction

Synopsys, Inc. is a global leader in providing software, intellectual property and services used to design integrated circuits and electronic systems. For more than 25 years, we have supplied the electronic design
automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), commonly called chips. We also provide software and hardware used to develop the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on those
chips. Our intellectual property (IP) products are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs instead of designing those circuits themselves. To complement these product offerings, we provide technical services to
support our solutions and help our customers develop chips and electronic systems.

Corporate Information

We incorporated in 1986 in North Carolina and reincorporated in Delaware in 1987. Our headquarters are located at 700 East Middlefield Road,
Mountain View, California 94043, and our telephone number there is (650) 584-5000. We have approximately 81 offices worldwide.

Our
annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), current reports on Form 8-K, and Proxy Statements relating to our annual meetings of stockholders, including any amendments to these reports,
as well as filings made by our executive officers and directors, are available through our Internet website(www.synopsys.com)free of charge as soon as practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC(www.sec.gov).
The contents of our website are not part of this Form 10-K.

Background

Recent years have seen a remarkable proliferation of consumer and wireless electronic products, particularly mobile devices. The growth of the
Internet and cloud computing has provided people with new ways to create, store and share information. At the same time, the increasing use of electronics in cars, buildings, appliances and other consumer products is expanding the landscape of
“smart” devices.

These developments depend, in large part, on chips. It is common for a single chip to combine many components
(processor, communications, memory, custom logic, input/output) into a single System-on-Chip (SoC), resulting in highly complex chip designs. The most complex chips today contain more than a billion transistors, the basic building blocks for
integrated circuits, each of which may have features that are less than 1/1,000th the diameter of a human hair. At such small dimensions, the wavelength of light itself can become an obstacle to production, becoming too big to create such dense
features and requiring creative and complicated new approaches from designers. Designers have turned to new manufacturing techniques, such as double patterning lithography and 3D FinFET transistors, which introduce their own challenges in design and
production.

In addition, due to the popularity of mobile devices and other electronic products, there is increasing demand for
integrated circuits and systems with greater functionality and performance, reduced size, and less power consumption. The designers of these products—our customers—are facing intense pressure to deliver innovative products at ever shorter
times-to-market, as well as at lower prices. In other words, innovation in chip and system design today often hinges on “better,” “sooner,” and “cheaper.”

Synopsys is at the heart of accelerating innovation in the dynamic electronics market. We provide the software tools, IP, hardware and other
technologies that designers use to create chips and







systems. The designer’s task is to determine how best to locate and connect the building blocks of chips, verifying that the resulting design behaves as intended and ensuring that the design
can be manufactured efficiently and cost-effectively. This task is a complicated, multi-step process that is both expensive and time-consuming.

We offer a wide range of products that help designers at different steps in the overall design process, both for the design of individual integrated circuits and for the design of larger systems. Our products can
increase designer productivity and efficiency by automating tasks, keeping track of large amounts of design data, adding intelligence to the design process, facilitating reuse of past designs and reducing errors. Our IP products offer proven,
high-quality pre-configured circuits that are ready-to-use in a chip design, saving customers time and enabling them direct resources to projects that differentiate their products. Our global service and support engineers also provide expert
technical support and design assistance to our customers.

Products and Services

Revenue from our products and services is reported in four groups: Core EDA, which includes the Galaxy™ Design Platform, the Discovery™
Verification Platform and our FPGA (Field Programmable Gate Array) design products; IP and System-Level Solutions; Manufacturing Solutions; and Professional Services.

Core EDA Solutions

The process of designing integrated circuits contains many complex
steps: architecture definition, RTL (register transfer level) design, functional/RTL verification, logic design or synthesis, gate-level verification, floorplanning, and place and route, to name just a few. Designers use our Core EDA products to
automate the integrated circuit design process and to reduce errors. We offer a large number of Core EDA products intended to address the process comprehensively. Our Core EDA products generally fall into the following suites: the Galaxy Design
Platform, which includes tools to design an integrated circuit, the Discovery Verification Platform, which includes tools to verify that an integrated circuit behaves as intended, and FPGA design products.

Galaxy Design Platform

Our
Galaxy Design Platform provides our customers with a single, integrated chip design solution that includes industry-leading individual products and incorporates common libraries and consistent timing, delay calculation and constraints throughout the
design process. The platform allows designers the flexibility to integrate internally developed and third-party tools. With this advanced functionality, common foundation and flexibility, our Galaxy Design Platform helps reduce design times,
decrease integration costs and minimize the risks inherent in advanced, complex integrated circuit designs. Our products span both digital and analog/mixed-signal designs.

The principal products included in the Galaxy Design Platform are our IC Compiler™ physical design solution, Design
Compiler®logic synthesis product, Galaxy Custom Designer®physical design solution for analog/mixed-signal designs, PrimeTime®timing analysis products, StarRC™ product for extraction, and IC Validator tool for physical verification.

Discovery Verification Platform

Our Discovery Verification Platform is a comprehensive, integrated portfolio of functional, analog/mixed-signal, formal and low-power verification products. The platform includes design-for-verification
methodologies and provides a consistent control environment to help significantly improve the speed, breadth and accuracy of our customers’ functional and mixed-signal verification efforts. The Discovery Verification Platform’s components
support industry standards and are tightly coupled together through direct kernel integration for highest throughput mixed-signal simulation.







The principal products included in the Discovery Verification Platform are our
VCS®comprehensive RTL verification solution, CustomSim™ FastSPICE and
FineSim®SPICE/FastSPICE circuit simulation and analysis products, HSPICE®circuit simulator, CustomExplorer™ Ultra mixed-signal regression and analysis environment, Verdi®debug solution and Formality®formal
verification sign-off solution. We also offer ZeBu®emulation systems that use high-performance, high-bandwidth hardware
to emulate SoC designs so that designers can co-verify and debug the behavior of the SoC, and software running on the SoC, prior to its production.

FPGA Design Products

FPGAs are complex chips that can be customized or
programmed to perform a specific function after they are manufactured. For FPGA design, we offer Synplify®Pro and Premier
implementation and Identify®debug software tools.

IP and System-Level Solutions

IP Products

As more functionality converges into a single device or even
a single chip, and chip designs grow more complex, the number of third-party IP blocks incorporated into designs is rapidly increasing. Synopsys is a leading provider of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for SoCs. Our broad DesignWare®IP portfolio includes:



•high quality solutions for widely used interfaces such as USB, PCI Express, DDR, Ethernet, SATA and HDMI,



•analog IP for analog-to-digital data conversion, audio, and video,



•SoC infrastructure IP including datapath IP, AMBA interconnect fabric and peripherals, and verification IP,



•logic libraries and embedded memories, including SRAMs and non-volatile memory,



•configurable processor cores for embedded and deeply embedded designs, and



•IP subsystems for audio and sensor functionality that combine IP blocks and software into an integrated, pre-verified solution.

System-Level Solutions

Optimizing the system-level design earlier in the development cycle, including both hardware and software components, is increasingly important for
customers to meet their performance, time-to-market, and development cost goals. Synopsys has the industry’s broadest portfolio of tools, models and services for the system-level design of SoCs.

Our Platform Architect™ software enables early and rapid exploration of SoC architectural trade-offs. To speed the creation,
implementation and verification of differentiated IP blocks, we offer SPW™ and System Studio™ tools for algorithm design, Processor Designer™ software for custom processor design, and Synphony Model™ and C Compilers for
high-level synthesis.

Escalating software content and complexity in today’s electronic devices are driving the
adoption of new tools and methods to accelerate software development and ease hardware-software integration and system validation. Our system-level portfolio includes prototyping technologies that improve the productivity of both hardware and
software development teams. Our Virtualizer™ tool and broad portfolio of transaction-level models enable the creation of virtual prototypes, fully functional software models of complete systems that enable engineers to start software
development up to twelve months earlier than traditional methods. Our HAPS®FPGA-based prototyping systems integrate
high performance hardware and software tools with real-world interfaces to enable faster hardware-software integration and full system validation. Our hybrid prototyping solution combines both approaches to prototyping, integrating Virtualizer
virtual prototyping with HAPS FPGA-based prototyping.







Synopsys also provides a series of tools used in the design of optical systems
and photonic devices. Our CODE V®solution enables engineers to model, analyze and optimize designs for optical imaging
and communication systems. Our LightTools®design and analysis software allows designers to simulate and improve the
performance of a broad range of illumination systems, from vehicle lighting to projector systems.

Manufacturing Solutions

Our Manufacturing Solutions products and technologies enable semiconductor manufacturers to more quickly develop new fabrication
processes that produce production-level yields. These products are used in the early research and development phase and the production phase. In the production phase, manufacturers use these products to convert IC design layouts into the masks used
to manufacture the devices.

Our Manufacturing Solutions include Sentaurus™ Technology-CAD (TCAD) device and
process simulation products, Proteus optical proximity correction (OPC) and lithography rule check (LRC) products, CATS®mask data preparation product, and Yield Explorer®and Odyssey Yield Management solutions.

Professional Services and Training

Synopsys provides consulting and design services that address all phases of the SoC development process. These services assist our customers with new tool and methodology adoption, chip architecture and
specification development, functional and low-power design and verification, and physical implementation and signoff. We also provide a broad range of expert training and workshops on our latest tools and methodologies.

Customer Service and Technical Support

A high level of customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide technical support for our products through both field-based and corporate-based application
engineering teams. Customers who purchase Technology Subscription Licenses (TSLs) receive software maintenance services bundled with their license fee. Customers who purchase term licenses and perpetual licenses may purchase these services
separately. SeeProduct Sales and Licensing Agreementsbelow.

Software maintenance services include minor
product enhancements, bug fixes and access to our technical support center for primary support. Software maintenance also includes access to the SolvNet®portal, our web-based support solution that gives customers access to Synopsys’ complete design knowledge database. Updated daily, the SolvNet portal includes
documentation, design tips and answers to user questions. Customers can also engage, for additional charges, our worldwide network of applications consultants for additional support needs.

In addition, Synopsys also offers training workshops designed to increase customer design proficiency and productivity with our products. Workshops
cover our products and methodologies used in our design and verification flows, as well as specialized modules addressing system design, logic design, physical design, simulation and test. We offer regularly scheduled public and private courses in a
variety of locations worldwide, as well as Virtual Classroom on-demand and live online training.

Product Warranties

We generally warrant our products to be free from defects in media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a period of
90 days for our software products and for up to six months for our hardware products. In certain cases, we also provide our customers with limited indemnification with respect to claims that their use of our software products infringe on United
States patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets. We have not experienced material warranty or indemnity claims to date.







Support for Industry Standards

We actively create and support standards that help our customers increase productivity, facilitate efficient design flows, improve interoperability
of tools from different vendors, and ensure connectivity, functionality and interoperability of IP building blocks. Standards in the electronic design industry can be established by formal accredited organizations, industry consortia, company
licensing made available to all, de facto usage, or through open source licensing.

Synopsys’ products support more than 35
standards, including the most commonly used hardware description languages: SystemVerilog, Verilog, VHDL, and SystemC. Our products utilize numerous industry standard data formats, application programming interfaces, and databases for the exchange
of design data among our tools, other EDA vendors’ products, and applications that customers develop internally. We also comply with a wide range of industry standards within our IP product family to ensure usability and interconnectivity.

Sales, Distribution and Backlog

Our customers are primarily semiconductor and electronics systems companies. We market our products and services principally through direct sales in the United States and principal foreign markets. We typically
distribute our software products and documentation to customers electronically, but provide physical media (i.e., DVD-ROMs) when requested by the customer.

We maintain sales/support centers throughout the United States. Outside the United States, we maintain sales, support or service offices in Canada, multiple countries in Europe, Israel, Japan, China, Korea, Taiwan
and other countries in Asia. Our foreign headquarters for financial and tax purposes are located in Dublin, Ireland. Our offices are further described under Part I, Item 2,Properties.

In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, an aggregate of 52%, 52% and 54%, respectively, of Synopsys’ total revenue was derived from sales outside of the
U.S. Geographic revenue, which is based on customer server site location, is shown below as a percentage of total revenue for the last three fiscal years:











Additional information relating to domestic and foreign operations, including revenue and long-lived
assets by geographic area, is contained in Note 13 ofNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsin Part II, Item 8,Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Risks related to our foreign operations are described in
Part I, Item 1A,Risk Factors.

Our backlog was approximately $3.1 billion on October 31, 2013, representing a 15%
increase from backlog of $2.7 billion on October 31, 2012, which resulted primarily from the renewal of large multi-year contracts in fiscal 2013. Backlog represents committed orders that are expected to be recognized as revenue over the
following three years. We currently expect that $1.5 billion of our backlog will be recognized after fiscal 2014. Backlog may not be a reliable predictor of our future sales as business conditions may change and technologies may evolve, and
customers may seek to renegotiate their arrangements or may default on their payment obligations. For this and other reasons, we may not be able to recognize expected revenue from backlog when anticipated.

Revenue attributable to each of our four platforms established for management reporting purposes is shown below as a percentage of total revenue for
the last three fiscal years:

Revenue by Platform





Revenue derived from Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries in the aggregate accounted for 11.3%, 10.5% and 10.6%
of our total revenue in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Research and Development

Our future performance depends in large part on our ability to further enhance and extend our design and verification platforms and to expand our
manufacturing, IP and system-level product offerings. Research and development on existing and new products is primarily conducted within each product group. We also use targeted acquisitions to augment our own research and development efforts.

Our research and development expenses were $669.2 million, $581.6 million and $491.9 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011,
respectively. Our capitalized software development costs were approximately $3.6 million, $3.3 million and $2.9 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.

Competition

The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other
EDA vendors and against our customers’ own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on







technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, post-contract customer support, interoperability with our own and other vendors’ products, price
and payment terms. No one factor drives an EDA customer’s buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers’ budgets.

Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation. We also compete with other EDA vendors, including
frequent new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers’ internally developed design tools and capabilities. In the IP area, we compete primarily
with our customers’ internally developed IP.

Product Sales and Licensing Agreements

We typically license our software to customers under non-exclusive license agreements that transfer title to the media only and restrict use of our
software to specified purposes within specified geographical areas. The majority of our licenses are network licenses that allow a number of individual users to access the software on a defined network, including, in some cases, regional or global
networks. License fees depend on the type of license, product mix and number of copies of each product licensed.

In many cases, we
provide our customers the right to “re-mix” a portion of the software they initially licensed for other specified Synopsys products. For example, a customer may use our front-end design products for a portion of the license term and then
exchange such products for back-end place and route software for the remainder of the term in order to complete the customer’s IC design. This practice helps assure the customer’s access to the complete design flow needed to design its
product. The ability to offer this right to customers often gives us an advantage over competitors who offer a narrower range of products because customers can obtain more of their design flow from a single vendor. At the same time, because in such
cases the customer need not obtain a new license and pay an additional license fee for the use of the additional products, the use of these arrangements could result in reduced revenue compared to licensing the individual products separately without
re-mix rights.

We currently offer our software products under various license types: renewable TSLs, term licenses and perpetual
licenses. For a full discussion of these licenses, see Part II, Item 7,Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and EstimatesandResults of
Operations—Revenue Background.

We typically license our DesignWare Core intellectual property products under
nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific applications. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties.

Finally, our Global Technical Services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with
statements of work specific to each project.

Proprietary Rights

Synopsys primarily relies upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws and license and nondisclosure agreements to
establish and protect its proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 2,000 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates
through 2032. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may develop
similar technology independently. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. We are not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark or license with
respect to our proprietary rights.







In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our
customers if the licensed products infringe on a third party’s intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers’ use of our products infringes on these third-party rights.

Employees

As of
October 31, 2013, Synopsys had 8,573 employees, of which 3,420 were based in the United States.

Executive Officers of the
Registrant

The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 19, 2013 were:



NameAgePositionAart J. de Geus59Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of DirectorsChi-Foon Chan64Co-Chief Executive Officer and PresidentBrian M. Beattie60Chief Financial OfficerJoseph W. Logan54Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Corporate MarketingBrian E. Cabrera48General Counsel

Aart J. de Geusco-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February
1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. He has served as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan since May 2012. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions,
including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of Synopsys’ Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of our Board from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998
until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in
Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University.

Chi-Foon Chanhas served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer since
May 2012 and as our President and a member of our Board of Directors since February 1998. Prior to his appointment as our Co-Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, he had served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997. Dr. Chan joined
Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President, Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February 1994 to April 1997.
Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from Case
Western Reserve University.

Brian M. Beattiehas served as our Chief Financial Officer since January 2006. From October 1999 to
January 2006, he was Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of SupportSoft, Inc. From May 1998 to May 1999, he served as Vice President of Finance, Mergers and Acquisitions of Nortel Networks
Corporation. From July 1996 to April 1998, Mr. Beattie served as Group Vice President of Meridian Solutions of Nortel Networks Corporation. From February 1993 to June 1996, Mr. Beattie served as Vice President of Finance, Enterprise
Networks, for Nortel Networks Corporation. Mr. Beattie served on the board of directors of Unwired Planet, Inc. from December 2010 until November 2012. Mr. Beattie holds a Bachelor of Commerce and an M.B.A. from Concordia University in
Montreal.







Joseph W. Loganwas promoted to Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Corporate
Marketing in December 2013. Prior to his promotion, Mr. Logan served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since September 2006, assuming responsibility for our Corporate Marketing organization in August 2013. He was previously head
of sales for Synopsys’ North America East region from September 2001 to September 2006. Prior to Synopsys, Mr. Logan was head of North American Sales and Support at Avant! Corporation. Mr. Logan holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of
Massachusetts, Amherst.

Brian E. Cabrerahas served as our General Counsel since June 2006. From August 1999 to June 2006, he
held various positions with Callidus Software, most recently as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and prior to 2004 as General Counsel and Vice President of Operations and Human Resources. Prior to Callidus, Mr. Cabrera held
senior legal positions at PeopleSoft, Netscape Communications, and Silicon Graphics. Mr. Cabrera holds a Bachelor of Arts in Political Science and Philosophy and a Masters in Public Administration from the University of Southern California, as
well as a Juris Doctorate from the University of Southern California Law School.

There are no family relationships among any Synopsys
executive officers or directors.



