ITEM 1A.Risk Factors.





We have listed below the most significant risk factors applicable to us grouped into the following categories:  Operational Risks; Macroeconomic, Market, and Strategic Risks; Financial Risks; and Legal and Regulatory Risks.



Operational Risks



Ford’s long-term competitiveness depends on the successful execution of global redesign and fitness actions.We previously announced plans for our global redesign and fitness actions to transform the operational fitness of our business by becoming more customer centric and adopting processes that emphasize simplicity, speed and agility, efficiency, and accountability.  In addition, to further improve our fitness and overall competitiveness, we are attempting to leverage relationships with third parties, including various alliances and joint ventures as discussed below under “Ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies.”  If our global redesign actions are not successful or are delayed for reasons outside of our control, particularly in Europe and South America, or our fitness actions are not successful, we may not be able to materially lower costs in the near term or improve our competitiveness in the long term, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.



Ford’s vehicles could be affected by defects that result in delays in new model launches, recall campaigns, or increased warranty costs.

Note 27

of the Notes to the Financial Statements.  If warranty costs are greater than anticipated as a result of increased vehicle and component complexity, the adoption of new technologies, or otherwise, such costs could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  Furthermore, launch delays, recall actions, and increased warranty costs could adversely affect our reputation or market acceptance of our products as discussed below under “

Ford’s new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance

.”






Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)



Ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies.



Operational systems, security systems, and vehicles could be affected by cyber incidents.



Ford’s production, as well as Ford’s suppliers’ production, could be disrupted by labor issues, natural or man-made disasters, financial distress, production difficulties, or other factors.






Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)



Ford’s ability to maintain a competitive cost structure could be affected by labor or other constraints.Substantially all of the hourly employees in our Automotive operations in the United States and Canada are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements.  These agreements provide guaranteed wage and benefit levels throughout the contract term and some degree of income security, subject to certain conditions.  These agreements may restrict our ability to close plants and divest businesses.  A substantial number of our employees in other regions are represented by unions or government councils, and legislation or custom promoting retention of manufacturing or other employment in the state, country, or region may constrain as a practical matter our ability to sell or close manufacturing or other facilities.



Ford’s ability to attract and retain talented, diverse, and highly skilled employees is critical to its success and competitiveness.Our success depends on our ability to continue to recruit and retain talented and diverse employees who are highly skilled in engineering, software, and technology, among other areas.  Competition for such employees is intense, and the loss of existing employees or our inability to recruit new employees, particularly with the introduction of new technologies, could have a substantial adverse effect on our business.



Macroeconomic, Market, and Strategic Risks



Ford’s new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance.Although we conduct extensive market research before launching new or refreshed vehicles and introducing new services, many factors both within and outside our control affect the success of new or existing products and services in the marketplace and we may not be able to accurately predict trends or the success of new products or services in the market.  It takes years to design and develop a new vehicle or change an existing vehicle.  Because customers’ preferences may change quickly, our new and existing products may not generate sales in sufficient quantities and at costs low enough to be profitable.  Offering vehicles and services that customers want and value can mitigate the risks of increasing price competition and declining demand, but products and services that are perceived to be less desirable (whether in terms of price, quality, styling, safety, overall value, fuel efficiency, or other attributes) can exacerbate these risks.  For example, if we are unable to differentiate our products from those of our competitors or sufficiently tailor our products to customers in markets like China, there could be insufficient demand for our products, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.





Ford’s results are dependent on sales of larger, more profitable vehicles, particularly in the United States.A shift in consumer preferences away from larger, more profitable vehicles (including trucks and utilities) at levels beyond our current planning assumption, whether because of spiking fuel prices, a decline in the construction industry, government actions or incentives, or other reasons, could result in an immediate and substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.






Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)



With a global footprint, Ford’s results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including tariffs and Brexit.With the increasing interconnectedness of the global economy, a financial crisis, economic downturn or recession, natural disaster, geopolitical crisis, or other significant event in one area of the world can have an immediate and material adverse impact on markets around the world.  Changes in international trade policy can also have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  For example, steps taken by the U.S. government to apply or consider applying tariffs on automobiles, parts, and other products and materials have the potential to disrupt existing supply chains, impose additional costs on our business, affect the demand for our products, and make us less competitive.  Further, other countries attempting to retaliate by imposing tariffs would increase the cost for us to import our vehicles into such countries.  In addition, changes to and withdrawals from existing trade agreements and the entry into new trade agreements between governments may impact our results of operations.



China, in particular, presents unique risks to automakers due to its unique competitive and regulatory landscape.  For example, we have established joint ventures in China, and, as discussed above under “Ford may not realize the anticipated benefits of existing or pending strategic alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions, divestitures, or new business strategies,” we do not have the ability to control or operate those joint ventures for our sole benefit.  Changes in the Chinese economy, and the automotive market in particular, are driving significant changes to our business model for operating in China.  Moreover, changes in U.S.-China trade policy and new or increased tariffs, as well as a further economic slowdown, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.



In Europe, the United Kingdom withdrew from the European Union effective as of January 31, 2020, and is now in a period of transition until the end of 2020.  The transition period maintains all existing trading arrangements.  During the transition period,the United Kingdom and European Union will negotiate future trading arrangements.  Until a final agreement has been reached, an exit without a trade agreement in place, which would result in the United Kingdom losing access to free trade agreements for goods and services with the European Union and other countries, continues to be a risk.  An exit from the European Union without an agreement in place would likely result in a significant reduction in industry volumes in the United Kingdom, increased tariffs on U.K. imports and exports, and delays at the U.K. border, which could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  To the extent there is a negotiated Brexit, the implementation of any agreements reached, and the changes to current operations and processes resulting therefrom, could have an adverse impact on our operations.



We have operations in various markets with volatile economic or political environments and are pursuing growth opportunities in a number of newly developed and emerging markets.  These investments may expose us to heightened risks of economic, geopolitical, or other events, including governmental takeover (i.e., nationalization) of our manufacturing facilities or intellectual property, restrictive exchange or import controls, disruption of operations as a result of systemic political or economic instability, outbreak of war or expansion of hostilities, and acts of terrorism, each of which could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  Further, the U.S. government, other governments, and international organizations could impose additional sanctions that could restrict us from doing business directly or indirectly in or with certain countries or parties, which could include affiliates.



Industry sales volume in any of our key markets can be volatile and could decline if there is a financial crisis, recession, or significant geopolitical event.Because we, like other manufacturers, have a high proportion of relatively fixed structural costs, relatively small changes in industry sales volume can have a substantial effect on our cash flow and results of operations.  Industry vehicle sales are affected by overall economic and market conditions.  If industry vehicle sales were to decline to levels significantly below our planning assumption for key markets including the United States, Europe, or China, the decline could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow.  For a discussion of economic trends, see Item 7.






Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)



Ford may face increased price competition or a reduction in demand for its products resulting from industry excess capacity, currency fluctuations, competitive actions, or other factors.The global automotive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturing capacity far exceeding current demand.  Industry overcapacity has resulted in many manufacturers offering marketing incentives on vehicles in an attempt to maintain and grow market share; these incentives historically have included a combination of subsidized financing or leasing programs, price rebates, and other incentives.  As a result, we are not necessarily able to set our prices to offset higher costs of marketing incentives, commodity or other cost increases, tariffs, or the impact of adverse currency fluctuations, including pricing advantages foreign competitors may have because of their weaker home market currencies.  Continuation of or increased excess capacity, particularly for trucks and utilities, could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.



Fluctuations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and market value of our investments can have a significant effect on results.We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates.  We monitor and manage these exposures as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our business.  Changes in commodity prices (from tariffs, as discussed above under “With a global footprint, Ford’s results could be adversely affected by economic, geopolitical, protectionist trade policies, or other events, including tariffs and Brexit,” or otherwise), currency exchange rates, and interest rates cannot always be predicted, hedged, or offset with price increases to eliminate earnings volatility.  As a result, significant changes in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, or interest rates could have a substantial adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  See Item 7 and Item 7A for additional discussion of currency, commodity price, and interest rate risks.  In addition, our results are impacted by fluctuations in the market value of our investments, which are included in Corporate Other.



Financial Risks



Ford and Ford Credit’s access to debt, securitization, or derivative markets around the world at competitive rates or in sufficient amounts could be affected by credit rating downgrades, market volatility, market disruption, regulatory requirements, or other factors.






Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)



Ford’s receipt of government incentives could be subject to reduction, termination, or clawback.



Ford Credit could experience higher-than-expected credit losses, lower-than-anticipated residual values, or higher-than-expected return volumes for leased vehicles.





Economic and demographic experience for pension and other postretirement benefit plans (e.g., discount rates or investment returns) could be worse than Ford has assumed.The measurement of our obligations, costs, and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants.  We use many assumptions in calculating these estimates, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, and demographic experience (e.g., mortality and retirement rates).  We generally remeasure these estimates at each year end and recognize any gains or losses associated with changes to our plan assets and liabilities in the year incurred.  To the extent actual results are less favorable than our assumptions, we may recognize a substantial remeasurement loss in our results.  For discussion of our assumptions, see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Item 7 and Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.



Pension and other postretirement liabilities could adversely affect Ford’s liquidity and financial condition.We have defined benefit retirement plans in the United States that cover many of our hourly and salaried employees.  We also provide pension benefits to non-U.S. employees and retirees, primarily in Europe.  In addition, we and certain of our subsidiaries sponsor plans to provide other postretirement benefits (“OPEB”) for retired employees (primarily health care and life insurance benefits).  See Note 18 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more information about these plans.  These benefit plans impose significant liabilities on us and could require us to make additional cash contributions, which could impair our liquidity.  If our cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to meet any pension or OPEB obligations, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, suspend dividend payments, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness.






Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)



Legal and Regulatory Risks



Ford could experience unusual or significant litigation, governmental investigations, or adverse publicity arising out of alleged defects in products, perceived environmental impacts, or otherwise.We spend substantial resources ensuring that we comply with governmental safety regulations, mobile and stationary source emissions regulations, and other standards, but we cannot ensure that employees or other individuals affiliated with us will not violate such laws or regulations.  Moreover, compliance with governmental standards does not necessarily prevent individual or class action lawsuits, which can entail significant cost and risk.  In certain circumstances, courts may permit tort claims even where our vehicles comply with federal and/or other applicable law.  Furthermore, simply responding to actual or threatened litigation or government investigations of our compliance with regulatory standards, whether related to our products or business or commercial relationships, requires significant expenditures of time and other resources.  Litigation also is inherently uncertain, and we could experience significant adverse results, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, adverse publicity surrounding an allegation may cause significant reputational harm that could have a significant adverse effect on our sales.



Ford may need to substantially modify its product plans to comply with safety, emissions, fuel economy, autonomous vehicle, and other regulations that may change in the future.

The worldwide automotive industry is governed by a substantial amount of government regulation, which often differs by state, region, and country, while proposals for additional regulation continue, primarily out of concern for the environment (including concerns about global climate change and its impact), vehicle safety, and energy independence.  The regulatory landscape is in flux and can change on short notice.  For example, as discussed above under “Item 1. Business - Governmental Standards,” the European Union recently imposed stringent new regulations governing motor vehicle fleet CO


emissions beginning in 2020, with significant potential penalties for excess emissions.  In the United States, legal battles are taking shape over environmental regulatory standards.  California, which has an ambitious plan to reduce overall GHG emissions to 40% below 1990 levels by 2030, is vigorously opposing an effort by the federal government to preempt state regulations governing motor vehicle GHG emissions.  With the backing of other states, California continues to assert its right to promulgate and enforce stringent motor vehicle GHG and ZEV regulations.  These conflicts give rise to regulatory uncertainty and create the possibility that applicable regulatory standards may change quickly as a result of court rulings.  In addition, many governments regulate local product content and/or impose import requirements with the intent of creating jobs, protecting domestic producers, and influencing the balance of payments.



We are continuing to make changes to our product cycle plan to improve the fuel economy of our petroleum-powered vehicles and to offer more propulsion choices, such as electrified vehicles, with lower GHG emissions.  There are limits on our ability to achieve fuel economy improvements over a given time frame, however, primarily relating to the cost and effectiveness of available technologies, consumer acceptance of new technologies and changes in vehicle mix (as described in more detail above under “Ford’s new and existing products and mobility services are subject to market acceptance”), willingness of consumers to absorb the additional costs of new technologies, the appropriateness (or lack thereof) of certain technologies for use in particular vehicles, the widespread availability (or lack thereof) of supporting infrastructure for new technologies, and the human, engineering, and financial resources necessary to deploy new technologies across a wide range of products and powertrains in a short time.  If fuel prices remain relatively low and market conditions do not drive consumers to purchase electric vehicles and other highly fuel-efficient vehicles in large numbers, it may be difficult to meet applicable environmental standards without compromising results.



Increased scrutiny of automaker emission testing by regulators around the world has led to new regulations, more stringent enforcement programs, requests for field actions, and/or delays in regulatory approvals.  The cost to comply with existing government regulations is substantial and additional regulations or changes in consumer preferences that affect vehicle mix could have a substantial adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, a number of governments, as well as NGOs, publicly assess vehicles to their own protocols.  The protocols could change, and any negative perception regarding the performance of our vehicles subjected to such tests could reduce future sales.  Court decisions arising out of consumer and investor litigation could give rise tode factochanges in the interpretation of existing emission laws and regulations, thereby imposing new burdens on manufacturers.  For more discussion of the impact of standards on our global business, see the “Governmental Standards” discussion in “Item 1. Business” above.






Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued)



We and other companies continue to develop autonomous vehicle technologies, and the U.S. and foreign governments are continuing to develop the regulatory framework that will govern autonomous vehicles.  The evolution of the regulatory framework for autonomous vehicles, and the pace of the development of such regulatory framework, may subject us to increased costs and uncertainty, and may ultimately impact our ability to deliver autonomous vehicles and related services that customers want.



Ford and Ford Credit could be affected by the continued development of more stringent privacy, data use, and data protection laws and regulations as well as consumer expectations for the safeguarding of personal information.We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the United States and other countries (such as the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act) relating to the collection, use, and security of personal information of consumers, employees, or others, including laws that may require us to notify regulators and affected individuals of a data security incident.  Complying with newly developed laws and regulations, which are subject to change and uncertain interpretations and may be inconsistent from state to state or country to country, may lead to a decline in consumer engagement or cause us to incur substantial costs or modify our operations or business practices.  Moreover, regulatory actions seeking to impose significant financial penalties for noncompliance and/or legal actions could be brought against us in the event of a data compromise, misuse of consumer information, or perceived or actual non-compliance with data protection or privacy requirements.  Further, any unauthorized release of personally identifiable information could harm our reputation, disrupt our business, cause us to expend significant resources, and lead consumers to withhold consent for our use of data.



Ford Credit could be subject to new or increased credit regulations, consumer protection regulations, or other regulations.As a finance company, Ford Credit is highly regulated by governmental authorities in the locations in which it operates, which can impose significant additional costs and/or restrictions on its business.  In the United States, for example, Ford Credit’s operations are subject to regulation and supervision under various federal, state, and local laws, including the federal Truth-in-Lending Act, Consumer Leasing Act, Equal Credit Opportunity Act, and Fair Credit Reporting Act.



The Dodd-Frank Act directs federal agencies to adopt rules to regulate the finance industry and the capital markets and gives the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) broad rule-making and enforcement authority for a wide range of consumer financial protection laws that regulate consumer finance businesses, such as Ford Credit’s automotive financing business.  Exercise of these powers by the CFPB may increase the costs of, impose additional restrictions on, or otherwise adversely affect companies in the automotive finance business.  The CFPB has authority to supervise and examine the largest nonbank automotive finance companies, such as Ford Credit, for compliance with consumer financial protection laws.





