
10-K



                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549


                                  FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[ X ]   Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended March 30, 1996 or
[   ]    Transition  report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER   0-18548

                                 XILINX, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

        DELAWARE                                      77-0188631
(State or other jurisdiction             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 of incorporation or organization)

     2100 LOGIC DRIVE, SAN JOSE, CA                      95124
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

                                (408) 559-7778
              Registrant's telephone number, including area code

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                     None

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                         COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or for such shorter period that the
registrant  was  required  to  file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such requirements for the past 90 days.

          YES   [ X ]             NO   [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation  S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.  [   ]

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant,  based  upon the closing sale price of the Common Stock on June 4,
1996  as  reported  on  the  Nasdaq  National  Market  was  approximately
$2,089,824,088.    Shares  of  Common Stock held by each executive officer and
director  and  by  each  person  who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common
Stock  have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed affiliates.  This
determination  of  affiliate  status  is  not  necessarily  a  conclusive
determination for other purposes.

At June 4, 1996, registrant had 72,196,484 shares of Common Stock outstanding.


                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Parts  of  the  Proxy  Statement  for  Registrant's  1996  Annual  Meeting  of
Stockholders  are  incorporated  by  reference  in this Form 10-K Report (Part
III).


                                    PART I


ITEM 1.     BUSINESS

GENERAL

Xilinx,  Inc.  ("Xilinx"  or  "the  Company")  designs,  develops  and markets
complementary  metal-oxide-silicon  ("CMOS")  programmable  logic  devices and
related development system software.  The Company's programmable logic product
lines  include  field  programmable  gate  arrays  ("FPGAs")  and  complex
programmable  logic  devices  ("CPLDs").    These  components  are  standard
integrated  circuits  ("ICs")  programmed  by  Xilinx's  customers  to perform
desired  logic  operations.   Xilinx introduced the first FPGA device in 1985,
holds patents on certain FPGA architectures and technology and continues to be
the  leading  supplier  to this market.  Xilinx also markets hardwire devices,
which are mask-programmed ICs that are functionally equivalent to a programmed
FPGA.

Competitive  pressures  require  manufacturers  of electronic systems to bring
increasingly  complex  products  to market rapidly.  Requirements for improved
functionality,  performance,  reliability  and  lower cost are often addressed
through  the  use  of  components  that  integrate  ever  larger  numbers  of
transistors  onto  a  single  integrated  circuit.    For electronic equipment
manufacturers  in  the  data  processing,  telecommunications,  networking,
industrial  control,  instrumentation, and military markets, integration often
results  in  faster  speed,  smaller  size,  lower power consumption and lower
costs.    However,  while global competition is increasing the demand for more
complex products, it is also shortening product life cycles and requiring more
frequent  product  enhancements.  The length of time required to develop these
more  sophisticated  electronic  systems  is often incompatible with stringent
time to market requirements.

Xilinx  was founded to design, develop and market FPGAs which uniquely combine
the  high  logic density typically associated with custom gate arrays with the
time  to  market  advantages  of  programmable logic and the availability of a
standard  product.    The  Company offers a broad product line of programmable
logic  devices  to provide solutions for customers. The Company's programmable
logic  devices  serve a wide variety of applications which require high levels
of  integration  and  for which time to market is critical, production volumes
are  unpredictable and/or frequent design modifications are necessary to adapt
a  product  to  new  markets.    Xilinx  CPLD's  complement the Company's FPGA
products  and  contribute to the Company's efforts to offer total programmable
logic  solutions.    With  FPGAs, which have the advantages of higher density,
lower  power and lower cost, and CPLDs, which are typically faster, have lower
density  and  have  simpler,  easier  to  use software, the Company's products
enable  electronic  system  manufacturers to rapidly bring complex products to
market in volume.

The Xilinx software strategy is to deliver an integrated design solution for a
broad customer base ranging from customers who are not familiar with designing
systems using FPGA's to the most sophisticated customers who are accustomed to
designing  high  density,  mask  programmed  gate arrays.  The objective is to
deliver  strategic  software  advantages  that combine ease of use with design
flexibility, effective silicon utilization and competitive performance.

System  designers  use proprietary Xilinx development system software together
with  industry  standard  electronic design automation ("EDA") tools to design
and  develop  Xilinx  programmable  logic  applications.  Designers define the
logic  functions  of  the  circuit  and  revise  such functions as necessary. 
Programmable  logic  can be designed and verified in a few days, as opposed to
several weeks or months for gate arrays, which are customized devices that are
defined  during the manufacturing process. Moreover, programmable logic design
changes can be implemented in as little as a few hours, as compared to several
weeks  for  a custom gate array.  In addition, significant savings result from
the  elimination  of  non-recurring  engineering  costs  and  the reduction of
expenses  associated  with the redesign and testing of custom gate arrays.  By
reducing  the  cost  and  scheduling  risks of design iterations, programmable
logic  devices  allow greater designer creativity, including the consideration
of  design  alternatives  which  often lead to product improvements.  Further,
since  programmable  logic  devices  are  standard  products  and  production
quantities  are more readily available, exposures to obsolete inventory can be
significantly reduced.

On  April  10,  1995,  the Company acquired NeoCAD, Inc. ("NeoCAD"), a company
engaged  in  the  design,  development,  and sale of software design tools for
programmable  electronic  technologies.   In fiscal 1996, the Company has been
integrating  NeoCAD's  advanced  FPGA software technology into its development
system software.

Xilinx  was  organized in California in February 1984 and in November 1985 was
reorganized  to  incorporate its research and development limited partnership.
In  April  1990,  the  Company  reincorporated  in  Delaware.    The Company's
corporate  facilities  and  executive offices are located at 2100 Logic Drive,
San Jose, California 95124.

PRODUCTS

The  timely introduction of new products is a key factor in the success of the
Company's  business.    Delays  in  developing  new  products with anticipated
technological  advances  or  delays  in  commencing  volume  shipments  of new
products  would  be  expected  to  have  an  adverse  effect  on the Company's
business.    In  addition,  there  can  be no assurance that such products, if
introduced,  will  gain  market  acceptance  or  respond  effectively  to  new
technological changes or new product announcements by others.

     Programmable Logic Devices

The Company's FPGA products include the XC2000, XC3000 and XC4000 families and
the  recently  introduced  XC5000,  XC6000 and XC8000 families.  The Company's
CPLD  products  include  the  XC7000 family and the recently introduced XC9000
family.    The  Company has also recently introduced new members of the XC4000
family  which  include the XC4000E and XC4000EX.  The XC4000E family increased
performance over previous versions of the XC4000 family by approximately fifty
percent.    This  improvement  is  the  result  of a new design, a new process
technology  and  new  on-chip  RAM  features. The XC4000EX family utilizes the
benefits of the XC4000E architecture and provides additional routing resources
which are expected to meet the design requirements for ICs with gate densities
ranging  from 28,000 to 125,000 useable gates.  The XC4000EX family will offer
the  most  powerful  solution  for  the mask-programmed gate array replacement
market  by  addressing  80% of the density requirements for today's gate array
design  starts.    The  XC5000  family  represents the first FPGA specifically
developed  as  a  cost  effective,  high volume production alternative to gate
arrays.    The  XC5000  family  significantly  reduces  the  price premium for
customers  evaluating  an FPGA device against a comparable custom gate array. 
Use  of the XC5000 as a low cost solution for high density designs permits the
customer  to  also  take  advantage  of  design ease and to accelerate time to
volume  production.    The  XC6000  family  is  designed  for  reconfigurable
coprocessing  applications  within  the embedded controller market. The XC8000
family  consists  of  one-time  programmable FPGAs which utilize the Company's
innovative  MicroVia  antifuse  technology  and  proprietary  sea-of-gates
architecture  and was developed for high gate efficiency and ease-of-use.  The
XC9000  family  utilizes  Flash-based  architecture  and  offers  in-system
programmability.    The  Company shipped XC4000E and XC8000 products in fiscal
1996  and  expects  to ship the XC4000EX, XC6000 and XC9000 products in fiscal
1997.

FPGAs  are  available  in a wide variety of plastic and ceramic package types,
including  pin-grid  array,  surface  mount and quad flat pack configurations.
These  devices  meet  the  industry  standard  operating temperature ranges of
commercial, industrial and military users.

The  Company's  hardwire  products  offer  a  low cost migration path for high
volume applications.  Once a programmable logic design is finalized, customers
can  take  advantage of hardwire products which are mask-programmed during the
manufacturing process.  For every Xilinx FPGA family, there is a corresponding
hardwire family.

In  order  to  minimize  the  printed circuit board area required for external
storage  of the FPGA configuration program, the Company has developed a family
of  erasable  programmable  read-only  memories ("EPROMs").  These devices are
sold by the Company in conjunction with its FPGAs.

     Development System Software

The  Company's  current  version  of  XACTstep  software  combines  powerful
technology  with  a  flexible, easy to use graphical interface to help achieve
the  best  possible  designs.    XACTstep  provides  all of the implementation
technology  required  to  design  with  Xilinx logic devices, including module
generation,  design  optimization  and  mapping, placement and routing, timing
analysis, and program file generation.  The Company's next generation software
will  build  upon the existing user interface of the current XACTstep software
release,  but  underneath  will be a new generation software platform based on
the  NeoCAD  core  technologies.  This merged release, which is expected to be
available in fiscal 1997, is designed to satisfy the complete spectrum of FPGA
and CPLD customers.

The  Company currently offers two different series of software solutions.  One
series,  which  was  released  in  April  1996,  is  an  off-the-shelf,  or
"shrink-wrapped", solution that is easy to learn and use.  For those customers
that  are  new to designing with PLDs or want a low cost solution, the Company
offers  this  entirely integrated software solution.  The second series is for
designers  who want to integrate programmable logic design into their existing
EDA  tool  environment.   With interfaces to over 50 EDA vendors, this product
allows  users  to select tools with which they are most familiar and therefore
shortens their design cycle.

The  Company  is  preparing  a  third  software solution series to be directed
towards high-end system level design applications which have historically been
dominated by gate arrays.  Xilinx will provide pre-implemented, fully-verified
"drop-in  modules", called LogiCores, for commonly used complex functions such
as  digital  signal  processing.    These  cores  of intellectual property are
expected  to change the way in which logic has been historically designed.  As
a result, users should be able to shorten development time, reduce design risk
and obtain superior performance for their designs.

Xilinx's  XACTstep  development  system  software operates on desktop computer
platforms,  including  personal  computers  and  workstations  from  IBM,
IBM-compatible manufacturers, HP, DEC and Sun Microsystems.  Through March 30,
1996, the Company had distributed over 26,700 development systems to more than
5,000 system manufacturers worldwide.

In fiscal 1996, sales of FPGAs, CPLDs, EPROMS, Hardwire and development system
software  products  accounted  for  85%,  2%, 5%, 5% and 3% of total revenues,
respectively.    For  additional  information  on  the Company's revenues, see
Management's  Discussion  and  Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition in Item 7.

 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Xilinx's  research  and  development activities are primarily directed towards
the  design  of  new integrated circuits, the design of new development system
software  and ongoing cost reductions and performance improvements in existing
products.   The Company's recent research and product development efforts have
been  directed  principally  towards  its  XC3100,  XC4000, XC5000, XC6000 and
XC8100  families of FPGAs, CPLD products, XACT development system software and
towards other proprietary new architectures and processes.

Xilinx  believes  that  development  system software is an important factor in
expanding  the use of programmable logic devices.  The Company's R&D challenge
is  to  continue  to  develop new products that create solutions for customers
while  simultaneously  reducing  product development time. A further challenge
will  be  the  completion  of  integrating  NeoCAD's  advanced  FPGA  software
technology  into  the  existing  product line. The Company presently allocates
approximately 60% and 40% of its research and development staff for integrated
circuit  design  or  process  development  and  development  system  software
products,  respectively.   As of March 30, 1996, 388 employees were engaged in
research  and  development.  In  fiscal  1996,  1995,  and 1994, the Company's
research and development expenses were $64.6 million, $45.3 million, and $34.3
million,  respectively.    The  Company expects that it will continue to spend
substantial funds on research and development.

Research  and  development  expenses, while having increased in amount in each
period  presented,  have  approximated 12% of revenues in 1996 and 13% in 1995
and  1994.  The Company believes that technical leadership is essential to its
success  and  is  committed  to continuing a significant level of research and
development effort.

 MARKETING AND SALES

Xilinx  sells  its  products  through several channels of distribution: direct
sales  to  manufacturers  by  independent  sales  representative  firms, sales
through domestic distributors, and sales through foreign distributors.  Xilinx
also  utilizes  a  direct sales management organization and field applications
engineers (FAEs) as well as manufacturer's representatives and distributors to
reach  a  broad  base  of  potential  customers.    The  Company's independent
representatives  address larger OEM customers and act as a direct sales force,
while  distributors  serve  the  balance  of the Company's customer base.  All
channels are supported by Xilinx sales and technical support personnel.

In  North  America,  Hamilton-Hallmark,  Marshall  Industries,  and  Insight
Electronics,  Inc.  distribute  the  Company's  products  nationwide,  and  Nu
Horizons Electronics provides additional regional sales coverage.  The Company
believes  that  distributors  provide a cost effective means of reaching small
and  medium-sized  customers.   Since the Company's programmable logic devices
are  standard  products,  they  do  not present many of the inventory risks to
distributors  of  custom  gate  arrays, and they simplify the requirements for
distributor technical support.

Because  of  the  uncertainty  associated  with future pricing adjustments and
product  returns,  the Company defers recognition of revenues and related cost
of  revenues  for  products  sold  through  domestic  distributors  until  the
merchandise is sold by the distributors.


BACKLOG AND CUSTOMERS

As  of March 30, 1996, the Company's backlog was approximately $143.8 million,
as  compared  to  approximately  $94.9  million  as  of April 1, 1995.  Xilinx
includes  in its backlog all purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the
next  six  months.    Xilinx produces standard products which can generally be
shipped  from  inventory  within  a short time after receipt of an order.  The
Company's  business,  and  to  a  large  and growing extent that of the entire
semiconductor  industry,  is  characterized  by  short-term order and shipment
schedules.    Orders constituting the Company's current backlog are subject to
changes in delivery schedule or to cancellation at the option of the purchaser
without  significant  penalty.    Accordingly,  although useful for scheduling
production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable measure of
revenues for any future period.

In  fiscal 1996, the Company shipped products to over 5,000 customers directly
or  through  domestic  and  foreign  distributors.    No  single  end customer
accounted for more than 6% of revenues in fiscal 1996 or 1995 and 4% in fiscal
1994.   See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for
Industry and Geographic Information.

 WAFER FABRICATION

The majority of wafers for FPGAs shipped by the Company have been manufactured
by Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko) and Yamaha Corporation (Yamaha).  Seiko has
non-exclusive,  non-transferable rights to manufacture and sell FPGAs designed
by  Xilinx  in Japan and Europe but is not currently exercising these rights. 
In  exchange,  Seiko  has  provided  the  Company with access to advanced CMOS
processes.    Precise  terms  with  respect  to the volume and timing of wafer
production  and  the  pricing  of  wafers  produced  by  Seiko  and Yamaha are
determined  by  periodic  negotiations  between  the Company and these foundry
partners.    From  time  to  time, Xilinx may contract with other suppliers to
provide wafers for the Company's products.

Xilinx's  strategy  is  to  focus  its  resources  on  creating new integrated
circuits and development system software and on market development rather than
on  wafer  fabrication.    The Company continuously evaluates opportunities to
enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity.  As a result,
the  Company  has  entered into recent agreements with United Microelectronics
Corporation and Seiko as discussed below.

The  Company  entered into a series of agreements with United Microelectronics
Corporation  (UMC)  pursuant  to  which the Company has agreed to join UMC and
other parties to form a joint venture for the purpose of building and managing
an  advanced  semiconductor  manufacturing  facility  in Taiwan. See Note 4 of
Notes  to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  Under the terms of the
agreement,  the Company invested $34 million in fiscal 1996 and will invest an
additional  $68  million  and  $34  million  in  December  1996 and July 1997,
respectively,  for  a  25%  equity interest in the venture. As a result of its
equity ownership, the Company will receive rights to purchase at market prices
a  percentage  of  the facility 's wafer production.  The proposed facility is
expected to commence limited production of eight-inch sub-micron wafers during
fiscal 1998.  The Company is currently receiving eight-inch, sub-micron wafers
in  limited  volume  from  a  recently constructed foundry in which UMC is the
major  shareholder.  Xilinx believes it will continue to receive such products
in moderate volumes until the joint venture facility is operational.

On  May  17,  1996, the Company signed an agreement with Seiko.  The agreement
provides  for  an  advance  to  Seiko  of  $200  million  to  be  used  in the
construction  of  a  wafer  fabrication  facility  in Japan which will provide
access  to  eight-inch  sub-micron wafers.  In conjunction with the agreement,
$30  million  was  paid  in  May  1996  and further installments are scheduled
starting  in  November 1996.  Repayment of this advance will be in the form of
wafer  deliveries expected to begin in the first half of 1998.  In addition to
the advance payments, the Company will provide further funding to Seiko in the
amount  of $100 million.  This additional funding will be paid after the final
installment  of  the  $200  million  advance,  and  the form of the additional
funding will be negotiated at that time.

ASSEMBLY AND TEST

Wafers  purchased  by  the  Company  are  tested by the manufacturer or by the
Company.    Tested  wafers  are  assembled by a subcontractor in facilities in
various  Pacific  Rim  countries.    In  the  assembly process, the wafers are
separated  into  individual  integrated  circuits  which are then assembled in
packages.    Following  assembly,  the  packaged  units  are  returned  to the
Company's  U.S.  or  Ireland facilities for further testing, marking and final
inspection prior to shipment to customers.

 PATENTS AND LICENSES

Through  March  30,  1996,  the  Company held 92 United States patents and has
filed for an additional 139 United States patents in the areas of software, IC
architecture  and  design.    The  Company  intends  to vigorously protect its
intellectual  property.    The  Company  believes  that failure to enforce its
patents  or  to  effectively  protect  its trade secrets could have an adverse
effect  on the Company's business. See Legal Proceedings in Item 3 and Note 10
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Xilinx has acquired various software licenses that permit the Company to grant
object  code  sublicenses  to  its  customers for certain third party software
programs licensed with the Company's development system software. In addition,
the Company has licensed certain software for internal use in product design.

EMPLOYEES

Xilinx's  employee  population  has  grown by 38% during the past year.  As of
March  30,  1996, Xilinx had 1,201 employees compared to 868 at the end of the
prior year.  None of the Company's employees are represented by a labor union.
  The  Company  has  not  experienced  any  work  stoppages  and considers its
relations with its employees to be good.

COMPETITION

The  Company's  FPGA  and  CPLD  products  compete  in  the programmable logic
marketplace,  with  a  substantial  majority of the Company's revenues derived
from  its  FPGA product families. The industries in which the Company competes
are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change,
rapid  product  obsolescence  and  price  erosion.    The  Company  expects
significantly  increased competition both from existing competitors and from a
number of companies that may enter its market.  Xilinx believes that important
competitive  factors  in  the programmable logic market include price, product
performance  and  reliability,  adaptability  of  products  to  specific
applications,  ease  of  use and functionality of development system software,
and  technical  service and support.  The Company 's strategy for expansion in
the programmable logic market includes continued price reductions commensurate
with  the  ability to lower the cost of manufacture and continued introduction
of  new product architectures which target high volume, low cost applications.
However,  there  can  be  no assurances that the Company will be successful in
achieving this strategy.

The  Company's  major sources of competition are comprised of three elements: 
the  manufacturers  of  custom  CMOS  gate  arrays,  providers of high density
programmable logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures and other
providers  of  programmable  logic products.  The Company competes with custom
gate  array  manufacturers  on  the  basis  of  lower  design  costs,  shorter
development  schedules and reduced inventory risks.  The primary attributes of
custom  gate  arrays  are high density, high speed and low production costs in
high  volumes.    However, the Company believes that the design specifications
for  many  customers  can  be  met  by  the  density and speed capabilities of
Xilinx's  programmable  logic  products  which are cost effective over a broad
range of production volumes.  In addition, the Company 's efforts to introduce
lower cost architectures are intended to narrow the gap between current custom
gate  array  production costs (in high volumes) and FPGA production costs.  To
the  extent that such efforts are not successful, the Company's business could
be materially adversely affected.

The  Company  competes  with  providers  of  high  density  programmable logic
products  characterized  by  FPGA-type  architectures on the basis of software
capability,  product  functionally,  price, performance and customer service. 
The  Company  believes  that  certain  of its patents have been infringed by a
competitor  and  has  initiated  legal  action  to  protect  its  intellectual
property.    See  Legal  Proceedings  in  Item  3  and  Note  10  of  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

The  benefits  of  programmable  logic have attracted a number of companies to
this  market,  competing  primarily  on  the basis of speed, density or cost. 
Xilinx  recognizes  that different applications require different programmable
technologies,  and the Company is developing multiple architectures, processes
and products to meet these varying customer needs.  Recognizing the increasing
importance of standard software solutions, Xilinx is working to develop common
design  software that supports the full range of integrated circuit products. 
Xilinx  believes  that  automation  and  ease  of  design  will be significant
competitive factors in the programmable logic market.

Although  certain  manufacturers  of  PLDs  compete  with  Xilinx, significant
differences  in  logic  density  between most complex PLDs and FPGAs limit the
amount  of  competitive overlap.  While the architecture of complex PLDs gives
them  a  performance advantage in certain instances, the Company believes that
the  higher  density  available with FPGAs makes them more economical for many
designs.

Several  companies, both large and small, have introduced products competitive
with  those  of  the  Company  or have announced their intention to enter this
market.    Some of the Company's competitors may possess innovative technology
which  could  prove  superior to Xilinx's technology in some applications.  In
addition,  the  Company  anticipates  potential  competition from suppliers of
logic  products  based  on new technologies.  Many of the Company's current or
potential  competitors  have  substantially  greater financial, manufacturing,
marketing  and  technical  resources  than Xilinx. This additional competition
could adversely affect the Company.

Xilinx  also  faces  competition from its licensees.  Under a license from the
Company,  AT&T  is  manufacturing  and marketing the Company's non-proprietary
XC3000  FPGA  products  and is employing that technology to provide additional
FPGA  products  offering  high  density.   Seiko has rights to manufacture the
Company's  products  and  market them in Japan and Europe but is not currently
doing  so.    AMD  is  licensed  to  use  certain  of the Company's patents to
manufacture  and  market products other than SRAM-based FPGAs and, after March
19, 1997, could also compete directly in this market.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Certain information regarding each of Xilinx's executive officers is set forth
below:






Except  as  set forth below, each of the Company's executive officers has been
engaged  in  his  principal  occupation  described  above during the past five
years.    There  is  no  family relationship between any director or executive
officer of the Company.

Willem  P.  "Wim"  Roelandts  joined  the  Company  in  January  1996 as Chief
Executive  Officer.  He is a 28-year veteran of Hewlett-Packard Company, where
he  most  recently served as a senior vice president and managed the company's
Computer  Systems  Organization  from  November 1992 through January 1996.  In
this  capacity,  he  was  responsible  for all aspects of the computer systems
business  worldwide,  including  research  and  development,  manufacturing,
marketing,  professional  services and sales. He also served as vice president
and  general  manager  of  the  Network  Systems  Group  from December 1990 to
November 1992.

Robert  C.  Hinckley  joined  the  Company in November 1991 as Vice President,
Strategic Plans and Programs, serves as the Company's General Counsel, and was
appointed  Secretary in May 1993.  He acted as interim Chief Operating Officer
from  March  1994 until August 1994.  From August 1990 to November 1991 he was
engaged in the private practice of law.  From January 1989 until  August 1990,
he  served  as  Senior  Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and
Treasurer of Spectra Physics, Inc.

In  April  1996,  Curtis  S.  Wozniak,  President and Chief Operating Officer,
resigned from the Company.  He had joined Xilinx in August 1994.

ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

Xilinx's  principal administrative, sales, marketing, research and development
and  final testing facility is located in adjacent buildings providing 335,000
square  feet of available space in San Jose, California and are leased through
1999.    The  Company  has  entered  into  lease  agreements relating to these
facilities  which  would  allow the Company to purchase these facilities on or
before  the lease expiration dates in December 1999.  In addition, the Company
maintains  domestic  sales  offices  in  nineteen  locations which include the
metropolitan  areas  of Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Dallas, Los Angeles,
Minneapolis, Philadelphia, Raleigh and San Jose as well as international sales
offices located in the metropolitan areas of London, Munich, Paris, Stockholm,
Tokyo,  Taipei, Seoul and Hong Kong.   The Company completed construction of a
100,000 square foot administrative, research and development and final testing
facility  in  the metropolitan area of Dublin, Ireland in 1995.  This facility
is being used to service the Company's customer base outside of North America.
  The  Company  is  currently  constructing  a  60,000 square foot facility in
Boulder,  Colorado.  This facility will replace the former NeoCAD facility and
will  be  the primary location for the Company's software efforts in the areas
of research and development, manufacturing and quality control.

ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

On June 7, 1993, the Company filed suit against Altera Corporation (Altera) in
the  United States  District Court for the Northern District of California for
infringement  of certain of the Company's patents.  Subsequently, Altera filed
suit  against  the  Company,  alleging  that certain of the Company's products
infringe  certain  Altera  patents.  Fact discovery has been completed in both
cases.   No trial date has been set.  The Court has stayed further proceedings
in  both cases until August 30, 1996, when the next status conference with the
Court  is  scheduled.    On  April  20,  1995, Altera filed an additional suit
against the Company in Federal District Court in Delaware  (the Delaware suit)
alleging  that the Company's XC5000 family infringes a certain Altera patent. 
The  Company  answered  the  Delaware  suit  denying  that  the  XC5000 family
infringes  the  patent  in  suit,  which  is  the  subject  of the litigation,
asserting certain affirmative defenses and counterclaiming that the Altera Max
9000 family infringes certain of the Company's patents.  The Delaware suit has
now  been  transferred  to  the  United States District Court for the Northern
District  of  California.   Due to the uncertain nature of the litigation with
Altera and because the lawsuits are still in the pre-trial stage, the ultimate
outcome  of  these  matters  cannot  be  determined  at this time.  Management
believes that it has meritorious defenses to such claims and is defending them
vigorously.   The foregoing is a forward looking statement  and actual results
could differ materially.

There are no other pending legal proceedings of a material nature to which the
Company  is  a  party  or  of  which  any of its property is the subject.  The
Company  knows  of  no  legal  proceedings  contemplated  by  any governmental
authority or agency.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No  matters  were  submitted  to  a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.


                                   PART II


ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
                          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Xilinx's Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
XLNX.    The  table  below reflects for the periods indicated the high and low
closing  sales prices per share of the Common Stock, as reported on the Nasdaq
National  Market.    Xilinx has never paid a cash dividend on its Common Stock
and  intends  to continue this policy for the foreseeable future.  As of March
31,  1996,  there  were  approximately 671 shareholders of record.  Since many
holders'  shares  are  listed  under  their brokerage firms' names, the actual
number of shareholders is estimated by the Company to be over 35,000.








The price range of the Company's Common Stock has been restated for all
periods presented to reflect the three-for-one stock split, which was effected
in July 1995.


ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - (in thousands, except per share data)

 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA:




 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA






ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                     CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Cautionary Statement

The  statements  in this Management's Discussion and Analysis that are forward
looking  involve  numerous  risks  and  uncertainties and are based on current
expectations.    Actual  results  may  differ  materially.    Such  risks  and
uncertainties  are  detailed in the Company's SEC reports and filings. Certain
of these risks and uncertainties are discussed under "Factors Affecting Future
Results".



Nature of Operations

Xilinx,  Inc.  ("Xilinx"  or the "Company") designs, develops and markets CMOS
(complementary  metal-oxide-silicon)  programmable  logic  devices and related
development  system  software.  The Company's programmable logic product lines
include  field  programmable  gate  arrays  ("FPGAs") and complex programmable
logic  devices  ("CPLDs").   These components are standard integrated circuits
("ICs") programmed by Xilinx's customers to perform desired logic operations. 
Xilinx  introduced  the  first  FPGA  device  in  1985,  holds patents on FPGA
architecture  and technology, and continues to be the leading supplier to this
market.    Xilinx  also markets hardwire devices which are mask-programmed ICs
functionally  equivalent  to programmed FPGAs.  The Company's products provide
high  integration  and  quick  time-to-market  for  electronic  equipment
manufacturers  in  the  data  processing,  telecommunications,  networking,
industrial control, instrumentation and military markets.  The Company markets
its  products throughout the world through a direct sales organization, direct
sales  to  manufacturers  by  independent  sales  representative  firms, sales
through licensed domestic distributors and sales through foreign distributors.
  Xilinx's  products  have  provided  effective solutions to a wide range of
customer  logic  requirements,  thereby  permitting  the  Company  to increase
revenues and market share and to realize excellent profitability during fiscal
1996.

     Results of Operations

The following table sets forth certain operational data both as percentages of
annual revenues and as percentage changes from the prior year 's results.







     Revenue

Xilinx  reported  record revenues for 1996 of  $560.8 million, representing an
increase  of 57.9% from $355.1 million for 1995 and 118.7% from $256.4 million
reported  for  1994.  The  growth in revenues was a function of increased unit
sales  of  programmable  logic  devices  and, more specifically, was primarily
attributable  to the revenue growth of the XC4000 family as well as the growth
of  the  Company's new product, the XC5000 family. Other contributors included
the Company 's XC3000, XC3100 and CPLD families.

Xilinx's  development system software is used by the Company 's customers to
implement  designs  in  the  Company  's  programmable logic devices. Software
revenues increased by 36.1% in 1996 to approximately $17.1 million as compared
to $12.6 million in 1995 and $11.6 million in 1994. Although software revenues
have increased in dollar amounts, sales have declined as a percentage of total
revenues,  accounting  for  3%, 4% and 5% of revenues for 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  Cumulative licenses for proprietary development system software
distributed to customers through the end of 1996 approximated 26,700 units, as
compared to 21,000 and 16,500 at the end of 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Revenue  contribution  by product line reflected increased customer demand for
the functionality and performance provided by the Company's higher density and
higher  speed  programmable  logic  devices.  Of  the $205.7 million growth in
revenues  between  1995  and  1996,  96%  was  provided  by  revenues from the
proprietary  products  within the XC3000 family as well as the XC3100, XC4000,
XC5000 and CPLD families, all of which are proprietary products. Revenues from
proprietary  products  increased from 74% of the aggregate revenues in 1995 to
85% in 1996. In the fourth quarter of 1996, proprietary products accounted for
88%  of  total  revenues  as  compared to 79% for the comparable 1995 quarter.
Revenues  from  the XC4000 family increased 106% between 1995 and 1996 to $250
million.  Deriving  revenues  from proprietary products has been emphasized by
the  Company  as  an  effective implementation of a corporate pricing strategy
whose  aim  is  to expand the market for its products by reducing sales prices
coincident  with and commensurate with reductions in the cost of manufacturing
these  products. The Company is actively pursuing a strategy of broadening the
markets  it  serves through the enhancement of software development tools, the
introduction of architectures offering new functionality, and the reduction of
IC  prices  through  continuous  advancements  in  the  silicon  manufacturing
process.

During  1996,  all  product families except the non-proprietary members of the
XC3000  family,  where  there  is  a  second  source  competitor,  experienced
increases  in unit volume. During this period, the average selling price of an
IC  product  family  fell  between  8% and 24%. Individual products within the
XC3000,  XC3100 and XC4000 families experienced price decreases as much as 32%
during  the  past  year,  as  prices were reduced in the higher complexity and
higher  speed  families  in  order  to  be  more  competitive  in  high volume
applications.  Price  erosion  of  this  magnitude  has  been  common  in  the
semiconductor  industry,  as  advances  in both architecture and manufacturing
process  technology  have  permitted  continual  reductions  in  cost.  The
approximately  70%  increase in unit volume for the XC3100 family and the more
than  doubling  in  unit volume for the XC4000 family outweighed the impact of
price  erosion  on  individual  product lines, as the weighted average selling
price  for all ICs increased approximately 4% in 1996 relative to the previous
year.

The  XC4000  products  provide  the  widest  range of densities of any family,
currently ranging from 2,000 to 28,000 gates. The Company 's HardWire products
offer a low cost migration path for high volume applications. During 1996, the
Company  began  volume  production  of the XC5000 family, which represents the
first  FPGA specifically developed as a cost effective, high volume production
alternative to gate arrays. The XC5000 family is expected to allow the Company
to  enter  new  market  segments,  for  which most new designs are expected to
require higher quantities. However, there can be no assurances that the XC5000
family  will  be  successful in entering new market segments. Revenues for the
XC5000  family  were  $9.1  million  for  1996. In the second half of 1996 the
Company  introduced  the XC9500 CPLD family, which provides complete in-system
programming  and  test  capabilities  for  users  who  need  maximum  design
flexibility throughout their product life cycle.

No  single end customer accounted for more than 6% of revenues in 1996 or 1995
and 4% of revenues in 1994.

International  revenues  constituted  35%,  31%  and 28% of total revenues for
1996,  1995  and  1994,  respectively.  International  revenues continue to be
primarily  to customers in Europe and Japan. Revenue growth over the past year
in  these  two  international markets was 73% and 111%, respectively. In 1996,
the  Company  completed construction of a $32.3 million manufacturing facility
in  Dublin,  Ireland.  The  Ireland  facility  has increased production levels
throughout  1996  and has enhanced the Company 's ability to meet the needs of
its  international customers. The Company believes that international revenues
will  continue  to  grow  at  a  faster rate over the intermediate future than
domestic sales and projects that such revenues will eventually comprise 50% of
the  worldwide  total.  However, there can be no assurances that international
revenues will eventually reach this level in the future. Sales to Pacific Rim,
Middle  East  and  other  regions  outside  North  America,  Europe  and Japan
represented approximately 4% of revenues in each year presented.

Recently,  several  independent semiconductor industry analysts have indicated
their  belief that the overall semiconductor industry will grow at lower rates
than actual growth rates over the last few years. See "Other Factors Affecting
Operating  Results"  for  discussion  relating  to  potential  impact  of
semiconductor industry conditions on the Company's business.

The  Company  expects  its  growth rate in revenue for fiscal 1997 to decrease
from  the  levels  experienced  in fiscal 1996.  The Company believes that the
conditions that led to slow growth in the last two quarters of fiscal 1996 are
still present, although probably to a lesser degree. The Company also realizes
that  a  prolonged  slowdown  in  the  overall  semiconductor  industry  would
detrimentally  impact  Xilinx.  While  the  Company currently projects revenue
growth  rates for the first two quarters of fiscal 1997 to be comparable to or
above  the  two  to four percent quarterly growth experienced in the final two
quarters of the prior fiscal year, no assurance can be given that this will be
the case.

The  preceding  three  paragraphs  contains  forward-looking  statements which
involve  risks  and  uncertainties.  The Company's actual results could differ
materially  from  those  anticipated  in these forward-looking statements as a
result  of  certain  factors  including  those set forth in "Factors Affecting
Future Results" and elsewhere in this section.

     Gross Margin

Gross margin as a percentage of revenues was 63.8% for 1996 as compared to 61%
for  1995 and 61.5% for 1994. Recent gross margin improvements are largely due
to  the  strengthening  of  the  dollar  versus  the  yen,  recurring  pricing
negotiations,  improved  product  yields  associated with recent manufacturing
technology enhancements, and realization of the benefits of expanded levels of
production.  Over  the  past  three years, Xilinx has also been able to offset
much  of the erosion in gross margin percentages on the more mature integrated
circuits with increased volumes of newer, proprietary, higher margin products.
  The  Company  recognizes  that  ongoing  price reductions for its integrated
circuits  are  a significant element in expanding the market for its products.
Company  management  believes  that the fiscal 1996 gross margins of 63.8% are
neither  sustainable  nor desirable in the future. Gross margins closer to the
Company's  historical  range  of  60%  to  62% of revenues are considered more
appropriate  for  expanding  market  share while realizing acceptable returns,
although  there  can be no assurance that future gross margins will be in this
range.  Because  the Company 's wafer purchases supplied by Japanese foundries
are  denominated  in yen, a strengthened U.S. dollar exchange rate against the
yen  has  had  a  positive impact on manufacturing costs.  Manufacturing costs
would  be  adversely  impacted  if  the  dollar  weakens against the yen. "See
Factors Affecting Future Results."

     Research and Development

The  Company  has increased the dollars spent on research and development each
year  in its twelve year history. These expenses in 1996 exceeded those of the
prior  year  by  43%  and  those  of 1994 by 88%. The increase in research and
development  expenses  is primarily attributable to increased staffing, higher
engineering  wafer  purchases,  and  increased  facility  and  support  costs
associated  with an expanded scope of operations. Increased staffing in fiscal
1996  was  attributable  in part to the acquisition and integration of NeoCAD.
See  Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company remains
committed  to  a significant level of research and development effort in order
to  continue  to  compete  aggressively in the programmable logic marketplace.
Through  March  31, 1996, the Company had 92 U.S. patents issued and has filed
for  an  additional 139 U.S. patents in the areas of software, IC architecture
and  design.  As  of  March  31, 1996, research and development personnel were
split  40%  for software development and 60% for integrated circuit design and
process  development.  Xilinx  has not capitalized any of the costs associated
with its software development.

     Marketing, General and Administrative

Marketing, general and administrative costs have increased in each of the past
three  years  but  declined  as  a percentage of revenues, reflecting both the
greater  growth  rate  in  revenues  and  the  Company's commitment to control
administrative  expenses.  Sales  expenses  have  increased  each  year due to
increasing  personnel,  increases  in  advertising,  the  costs  of  new sales
offices,  and greater commission expenses associated with higher revenues. The
Company  has  nineteen  sales  offices  located  throughout the United States,
including  the  metropolitan  areas  of San Jose, Los Angeles, Denver, Dallas,
Chicago,  Minneapolis,  Atlanta,  Raleigh,  Philadelphia and Boston as well as
eight international sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of London,
Munich,  Paris, Stockholm, Tokyo, Taipei, Seoul and Hong Kong. The increase in
general and administrative expenses since 1994 is primarily attributable to an
expanded  number of employees and to continuing legal expenses associated with
litigation  intended  to  protect the Company 's intellectual property rights.
The  timing  and  extent  of  future  legal  costs associated with the ongoing
enforcement  of  the  Company's  intellectual  property rights are not readily
predictable  and  may  increase the level of future general and administrative
expenses.

     Non-recurring Charges

During  the first quarter of fiscal 1996, the Company incurred a $19.4 million
non-recurring  write-off  of  in-process technology relating to the Company 's
acquisition  of  NeoCAD.    During 1996, the Company has incurred research and
development  expenses relating to its efforts to combine the Xilinx and NeoCAD
technologies  into  an  integrated  software  product.  See Note 3 of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  During 1995, the Company incurred a $2.5
million write-off of a minority investment in Star Semiconductor Corporation.

     Operating Income

Operating income grew from $65.2 million in 1994 to $92 million in 1995 and to
$165.8  million  in  1996.  Operating income in 1996 was $185.1 million before
consideration  of  the  non-recurring write-off of in-process technology. Over
the  past  three  years,  operating income as a percentage of revenues (before
consideration  of  non-recurring  charges) has increased from 25.4% in 1994 to
26.6% in 1995 and to 33% in 1996. Operating income as a percentage of revenues
could be adversely impacted in future years by the factors noted above, and as
the  Company  expands its efforts in research and development and continues to
assert its intellectual property rights.

     Interest, Net

The  Company incurs interest expense on the $250 million of 5 1/4% convertible
subordinated  notes issued in November 1995. The Company earns interest income
on  its  cash,  cash  equivalents,  short-term  investments  and  restricted
investments.    The  amount of interest earned is a function of the balance of
cash  invested  as  well as the prevailing interest rates. Net interest income
for  1996 increased by $2.3 million over 1995. In 1996, the increased interest
expense  incurred  relating  to the notes was partially offset by the interest
income  earned  from  investing  the net proceeds of such notes. The Company's
investment portfolio contains tax-advantaged municipal bonds which have pretax
yields  which  are  less  than  the  interest rate on the notes. For financial
reporting purposes, the Company effectively records the difference between the
pretax  and  tax-equivalent  yields  as  a reduction in provision for taxes on
income.  As  a  result  of  the  difference  in  yields and future uses of the
investment  portfolio, levels of net interest income are likely to decrease in
the future.

     Provision for Income Taxes

Xilinx 's effective tax rate was 40.6% for 1996 as compared to 37.5% and 38.8%
for  1995 and 1994, respectively. The higher tax rate for fiscal 1996 resulted
from  the  non-recurring  write-off  of  in-process technology relating to the
acquisition  of  NeoCAD,  which  is  not  tax  deductible.    Excluding  the
non-recurring write-off of in-process technology, the Company 's effective tax
rate  for  fiscal  1996  was 36.5%.  The reduced rate from the previous fiscal
year is primarily due to the Company 's expanded operations in certain foreign
jurisdictions  that  offer  statutory  tax  rates beneath the US effective tax
rate.  The  Company believes that net deferred tax assets (approximately $25.1
million  at  March 31, 1996) are realizable due to the taxable income existing
in potential carryback years.

     Inflation

The  effects  of  inflation upon the Company's financial results have not been
significant.

FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE RESULTS

     Dependence Upon Independent Manufacturers

The  Company  does  not manufacture the wafers used for its products. To date,
most  of  the  Company  's  FPGA  wafers have been manufactured by Seiko Epson
Corporation  (Seiko)  and  Yamaha  Corporation.  The Company has depended upon
these  suppliers and others to produce wafers with competitive performance and
cost attributes, to produce wafers at acceptable yields and to deliver them to
the  Company  in  a  timely manner. While the quality, yield and timeliness of
wafer deliveries to date from its suppliers have been acceptable, there can be
no  assurance  that  manufacturing  problems will not occur in the future. Any
prolonged  inability  to  obtain  wafers with competitive performance and cost
attributes,  adequate yields or timely deliveries from these manufacturers, or
any  other  circumstance  that  would  require the Company to seek alternative
sources of supply, could delay shipments. Any significant delays could have an
adverse effect on the Company 's operating results.

The  Company  's  long-term growth will depend in large part on the Company 's
ability  to  obtain  increased  wafer  fabrication  capacity from suppliers. A
significant  increase in general industry demand or any interruption of supply
could  reduce  the Company 's supply of wafers or increase the Company 's cost
of  such  wafers,  thereby  materially  adversely  affecting  the  Company  's
business.

In  order  to  secure additional wafer capacity, the Company from time to time
considers  a  number  of  alternatives,  including, without limitation, equity
investments  in,  or  loans,  deposits,  or  other  financial  commitments to,
independent  wafer  manufacturers  in exchange for production capacity, or the
use  of contracts which commit the Company to purchase specified quantities of
wafers  over  extended periods.  The Company has at times been unable, and may
in  the  future  be  unable,  to  fully  satisfy  customer  demand  because of
production  constraints, including the ability of suppliers and subcontractors
to  provide  materials and services in a timely manner, as well as the ability
of the Company to process products for shipment.  The Company 's future growth
will  depend in part on its ability to locate and qualify additional suppliers
and  subcontractors  and  to  increase  its own capacity to ship products, and
there  can  be  no  assurance  that  the  Company  will be able to do so.  Any
increase  in  these  constraints on the Company 's production could materially
adversely  affect  the  Company  's  business. In this regard, the Company has
entered  into  a  joint venture, United Silicon Inc. (USI), to construct a new
wafer  fabrication  facility.    See  Notes  4  and 5 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements  and  the  Commitments  discussion  within  "Financial
Condition,  Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources." However, there are many risks
associated  with  the  construction  of  a  new  facility, and there can be no
assurance  that  such facility will become operational in a timely manner.  In
addition,  the  Company  has recently entered into an agreement for additional
capacity  with  another  foundry.    See  Note    11  of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements  and  the  Commitments  discussion  within  "Financial
Condition,  Liquidity  and  Capital  Resources."    If  the  Company  requires
additional  capacity  and  such  capacity  is  unavailable,  or unavailable on
reasonable  terms,  the  Company  's  business  could  be materially adversely
affected.

     Impact of Currency

The  Company  has  historically purchased most of the processed silicon wafers
used  in  its  integrated  circuits  from  Japanese foundries, which have been
denominated in yen. The Company has often limited its exposure to fluctuations
in  foreign exchange rates through the purchase of forward exchange and option
contracts  and  by  denominating  billings  to  Japanese customers in yen. The
Company  has entered into currency option contracts to cover approximately 50%
of  1997  yen  requirements for wafer purchases after consideration of foreign
sales  denominated in yen. Weakness in the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar
could  increase  the  effective cost of processed silicon and adversely affect
the  Company 's future results of operations. Foreign sales are billed in U.S.
dollars  except  for  sales  in Japan denominated in yen. The Company has also
entered  into  foreign  exchange  forward contracts to eliminate the impact of
future  exchange  fluctuations  on  the US dollar cost of investing in the USI
joint venture.

     Litigation

The Company is currently involved in patent litigation with Altera Corporation
(see  Note  10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 3, Legal
Proceedings).    Due to the uncertain nature of the litigation with Altera and
because the lawsuits are still in the pre-trial stage, the ultimate outcome of
these  matters cannot be determined at this time.  Management believes that it
has meritorious defenses to such claims and is defending them vigorously.  The
foregoing is a forward looking statement and the future outcome could differ.

     Other Factors Affecting Operating Results

The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized by rapid technological change,
intense  competitive  pressure  and  cyclical  market patterns. The Company 's
results  of  operations  are  affected by a wide variety of factors, including
general  economic  conditions  and  conditions  specific  to the semiconductor
industry,  decreases  in average selling price over the life of any particular
product,  the timing of new product introductions (both by the Company and its
competitors), the timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies, the
ability  to  safeguard patents and intellectual property in a rapidly evolving
market,  and  rapid  escalation  of  demand  for  some products in the face of
equally  steep  decline in demand for others. Market demand for the Company 's
products, particularly for those most recently introduced, can be difficult to
predict,  especially  in  light of customers ' demands to shorten product lead
time.  This  could  lead  to  revenue volatility if the Company were unable to
provide  sufficient  quantities  of  specified products in a given quarter. In
addition,  any  difficulty in achieving targeted yields could adversely impact
the  Company  's results of operations. The Company attempts to identify these
changes  in  market  conditions  as soon as possible; however, the rapidity of
their  onset makes prediction of and reaction to such events difficult. Due to
the  foregoing  and  other  factors,  past  results  are  a much less reliable
predictor  of  the future than is the case in many older, more stable and less
dynamic industries.

The  Company 's future success depends on its ability to develop and introduce
on a timely basis new products which compete effectively on the basis of price
and  performance  and  which address customer requirements. The success of new
product  introductions  is  dependent  upon  several factors, including timely
completion of new product designs, achievement of acceptable yields and market
acceptance.  No assurance can be given that the Company 's product development
efforts  will  be  successful  or  that  its  new products will achieve market
acceptance.  In addition, the average selling price for any particular product
tends  to decrease rapidly over the product 's life. To offset such decreases,
the Company relies primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding
cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new
products  which  incorporate  advanced  features  and  other price/performance
factors  such  that  higher  average  selling  prices  and  higher margins are
achievable  relative  to  mature  product  lines. To the extent that such cost
reductions and new product introductions with higher margins do not occur in a
timely manner or the Company 's products do not achieve market acceptance, the
Company 's operating results could be adversely affected.

The  Company's  FPGA  and  CPLD  products  compete  in  the programmable logic
marketplace,  with  a  substantial  majority of the Company's revenues derived
from  its FPGA product families.  The industries in which the Company competes
are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change,
rapid  product  obsolescence  and  price  erosion.    The  Company  expects
significantly  increased competition both from existing competitors and from a
number of companies that may enter its market.  Xilinx believes that important
competitive  factors  in  the programmable logic market include price, product
performance  and  reliability,  adaptability  of  products  to  specific
applications,  ease  of  use and functionality of development system software,
and  technical  service  and support.  The Company's strategy for expansion in
the programmable logic market includes continued price reductions commensurate
with  the  ability to lower the cost of manufacture and continued introduction
of new product architectures which target high volume, low cost applications. 
The  Company's  major  sources of competition are comprised of three elements:
the  manufacturers  of  custom  CMOS  gate  arrays,  providers of high density
programmable logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures and other
providers  of  programmable  logic products.  The Company competes with custom
gate  array  manufacturers  on  the  basis  of  lower  design  costs,  shorter
development  schedules and reduced inventory risks.  The primary attributes of
custom  gate  arrays  are high density, high speed and low production costs in
high  volumes.    However, the Company believes that the design specifications
for  many  customers  can  be  met  by  the  density and speed capabilities of
Xilinx's  programmable logic products which are cost effective in the required
production  volumes.    In  addition, the Company's efforts to introduce lower
cost  architectures are intended to narrow the gap between current custom gate
array  production  costs  (in high volumes) and FPGA production costs.  To the
extent  that  such efforts are not successful, the Company's business could be
materially adversely affected.

The  Company  relies upon patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law to
protect  its  intellectual  property.  There  can  be  no  assurance that such
intellectual  property  rights  can  be successfully asserted in the future or
will  not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third
parties,  including  competitors  of the Company, may assert exclusive patent,
copyright  and  other  intellectual  property  rights to technologies that are
important  to the Company. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result
in  substantial  cost  and  diversion  of  resources  of  the  Company.  Any
infringement  claim  or  other  litigation  against  or  by  the Company could
materially, adversely affect the Company 's financial condition and results of
operations.

The Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of
its  key  technical,  marketing and management personnel and on its ability to
continue  to attract and retain qualified employees, particularly those highly
skilled  design,  process  and  test  engineers involved in the manufacture of
existing  products  and  the  development  of new products and processes.  The
competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could
have  a  material,  adverse  effect  on  the Company's financial condition and
results of operations.

Sales outside of the United States carry a number of inherent risks, including
risks of currency exchange fluctuations, the need for export licenses, tariffs
and  other  potential  trade  barriers,  reduced  protection  for intellectual
property  rights in some countries, the impact of recessionary environments in
economies outside the United States and generally longer receivable collection
periods.   The Company's business is also subject to the risks associated with
the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export
of semiconductor products.  The Company cannot predict whether quotas, duties,
taxes or other charges or restrictions will be imposed by the United States or
other  countries upon the importation or exportation of the Company's products
in the future or what, if any, effect such actions would have on the Company's
financial condition and results of operations.

In  order  to expand international sales and service, the Company will need to
maintain  and  expand  existing  foreign  operations  or establish new foreign
operations.    This  entails  hiring  additional  personnel and maintaining or
expanding  existing  relationships  with  international distributors and sales
representatives.    This  will  require  significant  management attention and
financial  resources  and  could  adversely  affect  the  Company's results of
operations.   There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in
its  maintenance  or  expansion  of  existing  foreign  operations,  in  its
establishment  of  new  foreign  operations  or  in its efforts to maintain or
expand  its  relationships  with  international  distributors  or  sales
representatives.

The  semiconductor  industry has historically been cyclical and subject to, at
various  times,  significant  economic  downturns  characterized by diminished
product  demand,  accelerated  erosion  of  average  selling  prices  and
overcapacity.  The  Company  may  experience  substantial  period-to-period
fluctuations in future operating results due to general semiconductor industry
conditions, overall economic conditions or other factors.

Currently,  most of the Company 's operations are centered in an area that has
been seismically active.  Should there be a major earthquake in this area, the
Company  's  operations  may  be  disrupted  resulting in the inability of the
Company  to  ship  products  in  a timely manner, thereby materially adversely
affecting the Company 's business.

In  addition,  the  securities  of  many  high  technology  companies  have
historically  been  subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations which may
adversely affect the market price of the Company 's Common Stock.

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

The  Company  's financial condition at March 31, 1996 remained strong.  Total
current  assets  exceeded  total current liabilities by 5.2 times, compared to
3.4  times  at  March  31,  1995.  Since its inception, the Company has used a
combination  of  equity  and  debt financing and internal cash flow to support
operations,  make  acquisitions and investments in complementary technologies,
obtain capital equipment and finance inventory and accounts receivable.

Total assets have grown from $320.9 million in 1995 to $720.9 million in 1996.
This  increase  reflects  the net proceeds of $243.9 million received from the
sale   of convertible subordinated notes during the year as well as the year's
favorable  operating results. The percentage changes of selected balance sheet
items from March 1995 to March 1996 are shown below:





     Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term Investments

Xilinx  's  cash,  cash  equivalents  and  short-term investments increased by
$255.1  million  in  1996  to $378 million. The Company generated cash flow of
approximately  $150.3  million  from  operating  activities in 1996, offset by
$352.7  million  of  cash  used  for  investing  activities,  including  the
acquisition of NeoCAD, the USI joint venture, net purchases of investments and
investments  in  property,  plant  and  equipment.  In  addition,  the Company
generated  $256.7  million  of cash from financing activities, reflecting  the
proceeds  derived  from  the  convertible  debt  offering, which netted $243.9
million,  and $14.2 million of common stock proceeds under employee option and
stock  purchase plans, offset by $1.4 million of principal payments on capital
lease  obligations.  At  March 31, 1996, cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments represented 52% of total assets.

     Receivables

Receivables  grew 81.2% from $43.9 million at the end of 1995 to $79.5 million
at  the end of 1996. The increase in receivables year-to-year is primarily due
to  the greater volume of shipments which occurred in the last month of fiscal
1996.

     Inventories

Inventories  increased 53.4% from $25.6 million at March 1995 to $39.2 million
at  March  1996.  Inventory  levels  at  March  31,  1996 represent 69 days of
inventory,  which  is  consistent  with Company objectives, and compares to 54
days  at  March 31, 1995. The Company confronts dual, contradictory objectives
with  regard  to  inventory  management. On the one hand, the Company believes
that  its  standard,  off-the-shelf  products  should  be available for prompt
shipment  to customers. Accordingly, it attempts to maintain sufficient levels
of  inventory  in  various  product,  range  and  speed configurations to meet
unpredictable  customer  demand.  At the same time, the Company also wishes to
minimize  the  handling  costs  associated with higher inventory levels and to
realize  fully  the  opportunities  for  cost reduction associated with future
manufacturing process advancements. The Company continually strives to balance
these  two  objectives  so  as  to  provide  excellent  customer response at a
competitive  cost.  Year-end inventories as a percentage of the fourth quarter
's cost of revenues increased from 60% in 1995 to 76% in 1996.

     Property, Plant and Equipment

Xilinx  's  investment  in  property  and  equipment was $60.5 million in 1996
compared  to  $26.2  million  in  1995.    The  Company continues to invest in
software  design  tools  and  semiconductor  design,  test  and  manufacturing
equipment.    The  Company  completed  construction  of  a  $32.3  million
manufacturing  facility  in  Dublin,  Ireland in 1996 to establish capacity to
meet  increased product demand. Although the Company anticipates significantly
lower capital expenditures in fiscal 1997 as a result of the completion of the
Ireland facility, significant investments with wafer suppliers are planned for
1997.  See Commitments discussion.

     Current Liabilities

Current  liabilities  grew by 34.9% to $102.6 million at the end of 1996. This
growth  is  primarily  attributable to increased deferred income for shipments
made  to  domestic  distributors,  increased trade payables associated with an
expanded  scale of operations and interest payable relating to the convertible
subordinated notes.

     Line of Credit

The  Company  has  obtained  credit line facilities for up to $47 million (see
Note  5  of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) of which $7 million is
intended  to  meet  occasional working capital requirements for the Company 's
wholly  owned  Irish  subsidiary.    At  March  31,  1996,  no borrowings were
outstanding under the lines of credit.

     Long-term Debt

In  November 1995, the Company issued $250 million in convertible subordinated
notes.  See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There was no
significant long-term debt in 1995.

     Stockholders ' Equity

Stockholders ' equity grew by 50.9% in 1996 to $368.2 million. The increase of
$124.3  million was primarily attributable to $101.5 million in net income and
$22.1  million  related to the issuance of common stock in accordance with the
Company 's stock plans and the tax benefit from stock options.  Stockholders '
equity as a percentage of total assets was 51.1% for 1996 and 76% for 1995.

     Commitments

The  Company  entered into a series of agreements with United Microelectronics
Corporation  (UMC)  pursuant  to  which the Company has agreed to join UMC and
other parties to form a joint venture for the purpose of building and managing
an  advanced  semiconductor  manufacturing  facility  in Taiwan. See Note 4 of
Notes  to Consolidated Financial Statements. Under the terms of the agreement,
the  Company invested $34 million in fiscal 1996 and will invest an additional
$68  million and $34 million in December 1996 and July 1997, respectively, for
a 25% equity interest in the venture. As a result of its equity ownership, the
Company  will  receive rights to purchase at market prices a percentage of the
facility  's  wafer production.  The proposed facility is expected to commence
limited  production  of  eight-inch sub-micron wafers during fiscal 1998.  The
Company is currently receiving eight-inch, sub-micron wafers in limited volume
from  a  recently  constructed foundry in which UMC is the major shareholder. 
Xilinx  believes it will continue to receive such products in moderate volumes
until the proposed facility is operational.

On  May 17, 1996, the Company signed an agreement with Seiko Epson Corporation
(Seiko),  a  primary  wafer  supplier.    See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements.  The agreement provides for an advance to Seiko of $200
million  to  be  used  in  the construction of a wafer fabrication facility in
Japan  which  will  provide  access  to  eight-inch  sub-micron  wafers.    In
conjunction  with  the agreement, $30 million was paid in May 1996 and further
installments  are  scheduled  starting  in  November  1996.  Repayment of this
advance will be in the form of wafer deliveries expected to begin in the first
half  of  1998.  In addition to the advance payments, the Company will provide
further  funding  to  Seiko  in  the  amount  of $100 million. This additional
funding  will  be paid after the final installment of the $200 million advance
and the form of the additional funding will be negotiated at that time.

     Employees

The  number  of Company employees grew by 38% during the past year. Xilinx had
1,201  employees at the end of 1996 as compared to 868 at the end of the prior
year.

The  Company anticipates that existing sources of liquidity and cash flow from
operations  will  be  sufficient  to satisfy the Company 's cash needs for the
foreseeable  future.  The  Company will continue to evaluate opportunities for
investments  to  obtain  additional  wafer  supply  capacity,  procurement  of
additional  capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and
potential  acquisitions  of  businesses,  products  or technologies that would
complement  the  Company  's  businesses  and  may use available cash or other
sources of funding for such purposes.


ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME




CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET




CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS






CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS

Xilinx  designs, develops and markets programmable logic semiconductor devices
and related development system software.  The Company 's product lines include
field  programmable  gate  arrays and complex programmable logic devices.  The
wafers  used  to  manufacture  the  Company  's  products  are  obtained  from
independent  wafer  manufacturers,  located primarily in Japan. The Company is
dependent  upon  these manufacturers to produce and deliver wafers on a timely
basis.    The  Company  is  also  dependent on subcontractors, located in Asia
Pacific,  to  provide  semiconductor  assembly  services.   Xilinx is a global
company  with  manufacturing  facilities  in the United States and Ireland and
sales  offices  throughout  the  world.    The  Company's products are sold to
customers  in  the data processing, telecommunications, networking, industrial
control,  instrumentation and military markets.  The Company derives more than
one-third  of  its  revenues from international sales, primarily in Europe and
Japan.

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND CONCENTRATIONS OF RISKS

     Basis of presentation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries after elimination of all significant
intercompany accounts and transactions. The Company 's fiscal year ends on the
Saturday  nearest  March  31.  For  ease  of  presentation,  March 31 has been
utilized  as  the fiscal year-end for all financial statement captions. Fiscal
years 1996, 1995 and 1994 each consisted of 52 weeks.

     Cash equivalents and  investments

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  consists  of  cash  on  deposit with banks, tax-
advantaged  municipal  bonds, and investments in money market instruments with
insignificant  interest  rate  risk  and  original  maturities  at  date  of
acquisition  of  90  days  or  less.  Short-term  investments  consist  of
tax-advantaged  municipal  bonds  and  corporate bonds with maturities greater
than  90  days  but less than one year. Restricted investments consist of U.S.
Treasury  Securities  held as collateral relating to leases for the Company 's
facilities.  See  Note  6  of  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The
Company  maintains  its  cash,  cash equivalents and short-term investments in
several  financial  instruments  with  various  banks  and  investment banking
institutions.  This  diversification of risk is consistent with Company policy
to maintain liquidity and ensure the safety of principal.

Management classifies investments as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity at
the  time  of  purchase  and  re-evaluates such designation as of each balance
sheet date. Securities are classified as held-to-maturity when the Company has
the  positive  intent  and  the ability to hold the securities until maturity.
Held-to-maturity  securities  are carried at cost adjusted for amortization of
premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization, as well as
any interest on the securities, is included in interest income. Securities not
classified  as  held  to  maturity  are  classified  as  available-for  sale.
Available-for-sale  securities  are  carried at fair value with the unrealized
gains  or losses, net of tax, included as a separate component of stockholders
'  equity.  Realized  gains  and  losses  and  declines  in value judged to be
other-than-temporary  on  available-for-sale  securities are included in other
income. The fair values for marketable debt and equity securities are based on
quoted  market  prices. The cost of securities matured or sold is based on the
specific identification method.


     Inventories

Inventories  are  stated  at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market
(estimated  net  realizable value) and are comprised of the following at March
31, 1996 and 1995:





     Advances for wafer purchases

During  fiscal  1995,  the  Company  advanced  $42  million to a primary wafer
supplier.  Repayment  of this amount is in the form of wafer deliveries and is
expected  to  be  completed  during  fiscal  1997. Through March 31, 1996, the
Company has received $33 million in wafers against this advance.

     Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed for
financial reporting purposes using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful  lives  of  the assets of three to five years for machinery, equipment,
furniture  and  fixtures  and  up  to thirty years for buildings. Assets under
capital  leases  are amortized using the straight-line method over the shorter
of  the  lease  term or estimated economic life. Depreciation and amortization
for income tax purposes is computed using accelerated methods.

     Deferred income on shipments to distributors

Certain  of  the  Company  's  sales are made to distributors under agreements
allowing  for  price  protection  and  limited  right of return on merchandise
unsold  by the distributors. Because of the uncertainty associated with future
pricing  concessions  and  returns, the Company defers recognition of revenues
and  related  cost  of  revenues  until  the  merchandise  is  sold  by  the
distributors.

     Foreign currency translation

The US dollar is the functional currency for the Company 's Irish subsidiary. 
Assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the functional currency are
translated  into US dollars, and the resulting gains or losses are included in
net  income.    The  functional currency is the local currency for each of the
Company  's  other  foreign  subsidiaries.  Translation adjustments, resulting
from  the process of translating foreign currency financial statements into US
dollars,  have not been material and therefore are not disclosed as a separate
component of stockholders ' equity.

     Derivative financial instruments

As  part of its ongoing asset and liability management activities, the Company
enters  into  certain  derivative  financial  arrangements to reduce financial
market risks. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments
for  trading  purposes.  See  Note  5  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.


     Long Lived Assets

In  1995,  the  Financial Accounting Standards Board released the Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standard  No.  121  (SFAS  121),  "Accounting  for  the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of. "
SFAS  121 requires recognition of impairment of long-lived assets in the event
the  net  book value of such assets exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows
attributable to such assets.  SFAS 121 is effective for fiscal years beginning
after  December  15,  1995.    Adoption  of SFAS 121 is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

     Employee stock plans

The Company accounts for its stock option and employee stock purchase plans in
accordance with provisions of the Accounting Principles Board's Opinion No. 25
(APB  25),  "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." In 1995, the Financial
Accounting  Standards  Board  released  the  Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard  No.  123 (SFAS 123), "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." SFAS
123  provides  an  alternative  to  APB  25  and is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1995.  The Company expects to continue to account
for  its  employee  stock  plans in accordance with the provisions of APB 25. 
Accordingly,  SFAS  123  is  not  expected  to  have  a material impact on the
Company's financial position or results of operations.

     Use of estimates

The  preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting  principles  requires  management to make estimates and assumptions
that  affect  the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent  liabilities  at  the  date  of  the  financial  statements and the
reported  amounts  of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Such
estimates  relate  to  the useful lives of fixed assets and intangible assets,
allowances  for  doubtful  accounts  and customer returns, inventory reserves,
potential  reserves relating to litigation matters and other reserves.  Actual
results  may differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material
to the financial statements.

     Net income per share

Net  income  per  common  and  common  equivalent  share is computed using the
weighted  average  number  of  common  and  dilutive  common equivalent shares
outstanding  during  the  period. Dilutive common equivalent shares consist of
stock  options  (using  the treasury stock method). Fully diluted earnings per
share  is  computed  using  the  weighted  average  common and dilutive common
equivalent shares outstanding, plus other dilutive shares which are not common
equivalent  shares.  The  effect  of  the  convertible  subordinated notes was
antidilutive  in  the  calculation of fully diluted earnings per share for the
periods presented.

     Concentrations of credit risk

The  Company  believes  that  the  concentration  of  credit risk in its trade
receivables  with  respect  to  the  high-technology industry is substantially
mitigated  by  the  Company  's  credit  evaluation  process, relatively short
collection  terms,  distributor agreements, and the geographical dispersion of
sales.  The Company generally does not require collateral. Bad debt write-offs
have been insignificant for all years presented.

     Concentration of other risks

The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized by rapid technological change,
intense  competitive  pressure  and  cyclical  market patterns.  The Company's
results  of  operations  are  affected by a wide variety of factors, including
general  economic  conditions  and  conditions  specific  to the semiconductor
industry,  decreases  in  average selling prices over the life of a particular
product,  the  timely  receipt of wafers with competitive performance and cost
attributes,  the  ability to locate and qualify additional wafer suppliers and
subcontractors,  the  timing  of  new  product  introductions,  the  timely
implementation  of  new  manufacturing  technologies, the ability to safeguard
patents  and  intellectual  property  in  a rapidly evolving market, and rapid
escalation of demand for some products in the face of equally steep decline in
demand  for  others.    As  a  result,  the Company may experience substantial
period-to-period  fluctuations  in future operating results due to the factors
mentioned above or other factors.

3. ACQUISITION

On  April  10,  1995,  the  Company  acquired NeoCAD, Inc. (NeoCAD), a private
company  engaged  in  the design, development and sale of FPGA software design
tools  for programmable electronic technologies, for $35 million in cash.  The
transaction  was  treated  as a purchase for accounting purposes; accordingly,
the  purchase  price has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed  based  on  their  estimated  fair values.  The excess of the purchase
price  over  the  fair  values  of liabilities assumed, net of tangible assets
acquired,  was  allocated  to in-process technology ($19.4 million), developed
technology  ($15.7  million)  and  the assembled workforce ($0.7 million). The
amount of in-process technology was written-off as a non-recurring item during
the  first  quarter  of  fiscal  1996.  The developed technology and assembled
workforce assets are being amortized over six and two years, respectively.  In
fiscal  1996,  the  Company  recorded  amortization  of  $2.6 million and $0.3
million  relating  to the developed technology and assembled workforce assets,
respectively.

The  following pro forma information reflects the statements of income for the
years  ended  March  31,  1996  and  March  31, 1995 as if the acquisition had
occurred at the beginning of fiscal 1995, and includes certain adjustments for
amortization  of  the  developed  technology  and  assembled workforce assets,
reduced  interest  income  and  the  related  income tax impact. The pro forma
information  excludes  the $19.4 million write-off of in-process technology as
it  represents  a  non-recurring  item.  This pro forma information may not be
indicative of the results that actually would have occurred if the combination
had  been  in  effect  on  the dates indicated or which may be realized in the
future.




4. JOINT VENTURE

The  Company, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and other parties have
entered  into  a  joint  venture  to  construct  in Taiwan a wafer fabrication
facility,  which is known as United Silicon Inc. (USI). The Company has agreed
to  invest  a  total  of  $3.75 billion New Taiwan dollars (approximately $136
mil-lion),  which will result in a  25% equity ownership in  the joint venture
and  the right to receive 31.25% of the wafer capacity from this facility.  In
January  1996,  the  Company  invested  $937.5  million  New  Taiwan  dollars
(approximately  $34 million) in the joint venture and expects to invest $1.875
billion  New Taiwan dollars (approximately $68 million) and $937.5 million New
Taiwan  dollars  (approximately  $34  million) in December 1996 and July 1997,
respectively.    The  joint venture is accounted for by the equity method, and
the operating results to date have not been material.


5. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     Cash and Investments

The  following  is  a  summary  of  available-for-sale  and  held-to-maturity
securities:





All  investments  classified  as    "available-for-sale  securities  "  have
maturities  due in one year or less. Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale
securities  and  the related realized gains or losses were immaterial in 1996,
1995 and 1994.





Held-to-maturity  securities  relate  to  certain  collateral requirements for
lease  agreements  associated with the Company's corporate facilities and have
maturities  due  in  one  year  or  less.  See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

     Derivatives

The  Company  enters  into  currency  forward and option contracts to minimize
foreign exchange risk relating to the Company 's purchase of wafers, which are
primarily  denominated  in  yen.   At March 31, 1996, commitments under option
contracts  to  purchase  yen  in fiscal 1997 were outstanding in the aggregate
amount  of  $18.1  million.  These contracts are accounted for as identifiable
hedges  against wafer purchases.  Realized gains or losses are recognized upon
maturity  of  the  contracts  and are included in cost of sales.  At March 31,
1996,  the fair value of these option contracts was immaterial based on market
exchange rates.  The maturities on these contracts is less than twelve months.

The  Company  has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to eliminate
the  impact of future exchange fluctuations on the US dollar cost of investing
in  the  USI  joint  venture. The contracts require the Company to exchange US
dollars  for  New  Taiwan  dollars and have maturities from nine to twenty-one
months.  The contracts are accounted for as a hedge of an identifiable foreign
currency  commitment.    Realized  gains  or  losses  will  be recognized upon
maturity  of  the  contracts  and  will  be  included in the USI joint venture
investment.    At  March  31, 1996, the outstanding foreign exchange contracts
related  to  the USI joint venture were $101.7 million and these contracts had
an unrealized gain of $1.5 million, which represents their fair value based on
market exchange rates.

The  Company  has  entered  into  a  two  and one half year interest rate swap
agreement  with  a third party in order to reduce risk related to movements in
interest rates.  Under the agreement, which is effective starting in May 1996,
the  Company  has  effectively converted the fixed rate interest rate payments
related  to  $125  million of the Company 's convertible subordinated notes to
variable  rate  interest  payments  without  the  exchange  of  the underlying
principal  amounts.    The  Company  will receive fixed interest rate payments
(equal  to 5.935%) from the third party and is obligated to make variable rate
payments  (equal  to the three month LIBOR rate) to the third party during the
term  of the agreement.  The net amount of interest payments received from the
third  party and interest payments made by the Company to the third party will
be included in interest expense.

During  1995,  the Company completed a reverse repurchase transaction relating
to  $350 million of U.S. Treasury Securities. The transaction was entered into
with  the  intent  of generating net interest income in an increasing interest
rate  environment  and  capital  gains that could be used to offset previously
incurred  capital  losses relating to the non-recurring $2.5 million write-off
of  the investment in Star Semiconductor. As a result of this transaction, the
Company  recorded approximately $9.7 million of interest expense, $4.7 million
of  interest  income  and  $4.8 million of bond premium amortization in 1995. 
Although  the Company has generally invested in more conventional investments,
such  as  municipal  bonds,  the  Company believes that the short sale of U.S.
Treasury  Securities  met the Company 's investment objectives in 1995. Future
investment  strategies  will  be  made  in accordance with investment policies
designed  to  preserve  and enhance corporate assets as such strategies may be
adopted from time to time by the Company 's Board of Directors.

     Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit

In  November  1995,  the Company completed a private placement of $250 million
aggregate  principal  convertible  subordinated  notes  under Rule 144A of the
Securities  Act  of 1933.  The notes, which mature in 2002, are convertible at
the  option  of  the  note  holders  into  the  Company  's  common stock at a
conversion  price  of $51 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence
of certain events.  The conversion price represented a 24.77% premium over the
closing  price  of  the  Company  's  stock  on November 7, 1995.  Interest is
payable semi-annually at 5.25% per annum.  At any time on or after November 4,
1997,  the  notes  are  redeemable  at the option of the Company at an initial
redemption  price  of  103.75%  of  the principal amount, except that prior to
November 3, 1998, the notes are not redeemable unless the closing price of the
Company  's  common stock has exceeded $71.40 (40% premium over the conversion
price) per share for twenty trading days within a period of thirty consecutive
trading  days.   Redemption prices as a percentage of the principal amount are
103.00%, 102.25%, 101.50% and 100.75% in the years beginning November 1, 1998,
November  1,  1999, November 1, 2000 and November 1, 2001, respectively.  Debt
issuance  costs  of  $6.1 million incurred in conjunction with issuance of the
convertible subordinated notes are being amortized over the seven year life of
the  notes.   In 1996, the Company recorded debt issuance cost amortization of
$0.4  million.    At  March  31,  1996,  the  fair  value  of  the convertible
subordinated  notes  was  approximately  $233.8 million based on quoted market
prices.    The  Company  has reserved 4,901,961 shares of common stock for the
conversion of these notes.

The  Company  has $40 million available under a multicurrency revolving credit
line  agreement  which  expires  on  March  1,  1998.    Under this agreement,
borrowings  bear interest at the bank 's reference rate or 0.75% over the bank
's  interbank  market  rate depending on the currency borrowed.  Additionally,
the Company 's Irish subsidiary has $7 million available under a multicurrency
credit line.  Under this agreement, borrowings bear interest at 0.75% over the
bank  's  prime rate.  At March 31, 1996, no borrowings were outstanding under
either credit line.  The agreements require the Company to comply with certain
covenants  and maintain certain financial ratios.  The agreements prohibit the
payment of cash dividends without prior bank approval.


6. COMMITMENTS

The  Company  leases  its  manufacturing and office facilities under operating
leases  that  expire  at various dates through December 2014. Lease agreements
for the Company 's corporate facilities contain payment provisions which allow
for  changes  in  rental  amounts  based  upon  interest  rate  changes.  The
approximate future minimum lease payments under these leases are as follows:





The  Company  has  entered  into  lease  agreements  relating to its corporate
facilities  which  would  allow  the  Company to purchase the facilities on or
before  the end of the lease term in December 1999. If at the end of the lease
term the Company does not purchase the property under lease or arrange a third
party  purchase,  then  the  Company  would  be  obligated to the lessor for a
guarantee  payment  equal to a specified percentage of the Company 's purchase
price  for the property. The Company would also be obligated to the lessor for
all  or  some  portion  of this amount if the price paid by the third party is
below  a specified percentage of the Company 's purchase price. The Company is
also  required to comply with certain covenants and maintain certain financial
ratios.  As  of  March  31,  1996,  the  total  amount  related  to the leased
facilities  for  which  the  Company  is contingently liable is $39.8 million.
Under  the  terms  of  the  agreements,  the  Company  is required to maintain
collateral  (restricted  investments)  of approximately $36 million during the
lease term.

7. STOCKHOLDERS ' EQUITY

The Company 's Certificate of Incorporation provides for 200 million shares of
common stock and 2 million shares of undesignated preferred stock.

     Treasury stock

The  Company  authorized a stock buyback program in June 1992 to repurchase up
to  4,500,000 shares of common stock. The Company has used the shares actually
repurchased  to meet the stock requirements of the Company 's Stock Option and
Employee  Qualified  Stock  Purchase  Plans.  Under  this program, the Company
repurchased  3,030,000  shares  of  its common stock on the open market during
1993  for  a  total  cost of $17.4 million.  During 1996 and 1995, the Company
issued  1,430,502  and 1,599,498, respectively, of these shares in response to
stock  option  exercises  and  stock  purchase plan requirements. At March 31,
1996, there were no shares of treasury stock outstanding.

     Employee qualified stock purchase plan

Under  the  Company  's 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (the Stock
Purchase  Plan), qualified employees are entitled to purchase shares of common
stock  at  85%  of  the  fair  market value at certain specified dates. Of the
2,925,000  shares authorized to be issued under this plan, 537,451 and 635,466
shares were issued during 1996 and 1995, respectively, and 252,050 shares were
available  for issuance at March 31, 1996. In March 1996, the Company 's Board
of  Directors amended the Stock Purchase Plan to increase the number of shares
for  issuance thereunder by 460,000 shares, subject to shareholder approval in
fiscal 1997.

     Employee stock option plan

The  Company  has  adopted  the 1988 Stock Option Plan (the Option Plan) under
which  a  total  of 32,781,000 common shares has been reserved for issuance to
employees,  directors,  and  consultants  of  the Company. Options to purchase
shares  of the Company 's common stock under the Option Plan may be granted at
not  less  than  85%  of  the fair value of the stock on the date of grant. To
date,  no shares have been issued at less than 100% of the fair value. Options
granted  to date expire ten years from date of grant and vest at varying rates
over  five years. In March 1996, the Company 's Board of Directors amended the
Option  Plan to increase the number of shares reserved for issuance thereunder
by 3,300,000 shares, subject to shareholder approval in fiscal 1997.

Additional information relative to the Option Plan is as follows:







The  range  of  exercise  prices for options outstanding at March 31, 1996 was
$0.12  to  $48.13.  Prices  for options exercised during the three year period
ended March 31, 1996 ranged from $0.12 to $23.42.

     Stock split

On  July  26, 1995, the Company's stockholders approved a 3-for-1 stock split,
in  the  form of a 200% dividend, payable to stockholders of record as of July
28, 1995. Shares, per share amounts, common stock at par value, and additional
paid  in capital have been restated to reflect the stock split for all periods
presented.


     Stockholder Rights Plan

In  October 1991, the Company adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a
dividend  distribution of one common stock purchase right for each outstanding
share  of  its  common  stock.    The rights become exercisable based upon the
occurrence  of  certain  conditions  including  acquisitions of Company stock,
tender or exchange offers and certain business combination transactions of the
Company.  In the event one of the conditions is triggered, each right entitles
the  registered  holder  to purchase a number of shares of common stock of the
Company  or,  under  limited  circumstances,  of the acquirer.  The rights are
redeemable  at  the  Company's  option  under certain conditions, for $.01 per
right and expire on October 4, 2001.

8. INCOME TAXES



The  tax  benefits  associated  with  the  disqualifying dispositions of stock
options  or employee stock purchase plan shares reduce taxes currently payable
by  $7.9  million,  $3.5  million  and  $2.4 million for 1996, 1995, and 1994,
respectively.  Such  benefits  are credited to additional paid-in capital when
realized.

The  provision  for income taxes reconciles to the amount obtained by applying
the  Federal statutory income tax rate to income before provision for taxes as
follows:







9. INDUSTRY AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

The  Company  operates  in  one single industry segment comprising the design,
development  and marketing of programmable logic semiconductor devices and the
related development system software.

Export revenues consisting of sales from the US to non-affiliated customers in
certain geographic areas were as follows:





During fiscal 1996, the Company began operations in its European manufacturing
facility.    Geographic information for fiscal 1996 is presented in the tables
below.  Foreign operations prior to fiscal 1996 were not material.






No  single end customer accounted for more than 6% of revenues in 1996 or 1995
and  4%  of  revenues  in 1994.  Approximately 13%, 14% and 14% of net product
revenues  were  made  through  the  Company 's largest domestic distributor in
1996,  1995  and 1994 respectively, and another domestic distributor accounted
for  10%  of  net  product  revenues  in  1996 and 1995 and 12% of net product
revenues in 1994.

10. LITIGATION

On June 7, 1993, the Company filed suit against Altera Corporation (Altera) in
the  United  States District Court for the Northern District of California for
infringement  of certain of the Company 's patents. Subsequently, Altera filed
suit  against  the  Company  alleging  that certain of the Company 's products
infringe  certain  Altera  patents.  Fact discovery has been completed in both
cases.   No trial date has been set.  The Court has stayed further proceedings
in  both  cases until August 30, 1996 when the next status conference with the
Court is scheduled.

On  April  20,  1995,  Altera  filed an additional suit against the Company in
Federal  District Court in Delaware alleging that the Company 's XC5000 family
infringes  a  certain  Altera  patent.  The Company answered the Delaware suit
denying  that  the  XC5000  family  infringes the patent in suit, which is the
subject  of  the  litigation,  asserting  certain  affirmative  defenses  and
counterclaiming  that  the  Altera  Max  9000  family infringes certain of the
Company's  patents.  The  Delaware suit has now been transferred to the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California.

Due  to  the  uncertain  nature  of the litigation with Altera and because the
lawsuits  are  still  in  the  pre-trial  stage, the ultimate outcome of these
matters  cannot  be  determined at this time.  Management believes that is has
meritorious  defenses to such claims and is defending them vigorously, and has
not  recorded  a  provision  for  the ultimate outcome of these matters in its
financial  statements.  The  foregoing is a forward looking statement based on
information  presently  known  to  management,  and  the  future outcome could
differ.

In the normal course of business, the Company receives and makes inquires with
regard  to  possible  patent infringement. Where deemed advisable, the Company
may  seek  or  extend  licenses  or  negotiate  settlements.  Outcomes of such
negotiations may not be determinable at any point in time; however, management
does  not  believe  that such licenses or settlements will, individually or in
the  aggregate,  have  a  material  adverse effect on the Company 's financial
position or results of operations.

11. SUBSEQUENT EVENT (UNAUDITED)

On  May 17, 1996, the Company signed an agreement with Seiko Epson Corporation
(Seiko),  a  primary wafer supplier.  The agreement provides for an advance to
Seiko  of  $200  million to be used in the construction of a wafer fabrication
facility  in Japan which will provide access to eight-inch sub-micron wafers. 
In  conjunction  with  the  agreement,  $30  million  was paid in May 1996 and
additional installments of $30 million are scheduled for November 1, 1996, May
1,  1997,  November  1,  1997  and  February 1, 1998 or upon the start of mass
production, whichever is later.  The final installment for the advance payment
of  $50 million is due on or after the later of April 1, 1998 and the date the
outstanding  balance  of  the  advance payment is less than $125 million. As a
result,  the  maximum outstanding amount of the advance payment at any time is
$175  million.  Repayment  of  this  advance  will  be  in  the  form of wafer
deliveries  expected  to  begin  in the first half of 1998. In addition to the
advance  payments,  the  Company  will provide further funding to Seiko in the
amount  of  $100 million. This additional funding will be paid after the final
installment of the $200 million advance and the form of the additional funding
will be negotiated at that time.

REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Xilinx, Inc.

We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Xilinx, Inc.
as  of  March  31,  1996  and 1995, and the related consolidated statements of
income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended March 31, 1996.  Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule  listed  in  the Index at Item 14(a).  These financial statements and
schedule  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.    Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion on these financial statements and
schedule based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted auditing
standards.    Those  standards  require  that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of  Xilinx,  Inc.  at March 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results of
its  operations  and  its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended  March  31,  1996,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted accounting
principles.  Also,  in  our  opinion, the related financial statement schedule
taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein.





                                                        /s/  Ernst & Young LLP




San Jose, California
April 17, 1996



                         Supplementary Financial Data
(in thousands, except per share amounts)

QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)








ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


                                   PART III


Certain  information  required by Part III is omitted from this Report in that
the  Registrant  will file a definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation
14A  (the  "Proxy  Statement")  not  later  than 120 days after the end of the
fiscal  year  covered by this Report, and certain information included therein
is  incorporated  herein  by  reference.    Only  those  sections of the Proxy
Statement  which  specifically  address  the  items  set  forth  herein  are
incorporated  by  reference.    Such  incorporation  does  not  include  the
Compensation  Committee  Report or the Performance Graph included in the Proxy
Statement.

ITEM 10.     DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The  information  concerning  the Company's directors required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement.

The  information  concerning the Company's executive officers required by this
Item  is  incorporated  by  reference to the section in Item 1 hereof entitled
"Executive Officers of the Registrant".

ITEM 11.     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The  information  required  by  this  Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
MANAGEMENT

The  information  required  by  this  Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The  information  required  by  this  Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement.


                                   PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)        (1)  The Financial Statements required by  Item 14 (a) are filed as 
                part of this annual report.

           (2)  The Financial Statement Schedule required by Item 14 (a) is 
                filed as part of this annual report.

Schedules not filed have been omitted because they are not applicable, are not
required  or  the  information required to be set forth therein is included in
the financial statements or notes thereto.

          (3)    The exhibits listed below in (c) are filed or incorporated by
                 reference as part of this annual report.

(b)    Reports  on  Form  8-K.    No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 1996.

(c)  Exhibits.



Exhibit Number    Description
- ---------------  -------------------------------------------------------------
        3.1 (2)   Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as 
                  amended to date.
        3.2 (1)   Bylaws of the Company, as amended to date.
        4.1 (3)   Preferred Shares Rights Agreement dated as of October 4, 1991 
                  between the Company and The First National Bank of Boston, as 
                  Rights Agent.
       10.1 (1)   Technology Transfer Agreement and Preferred Shares and Warrant
                  Purchase Agreement for Series E Preferred Stock and Series F 
                  Preferred Stock dated June 9, 1986 between the Company and 
                  Monolithic Memories, Inc.
       10.2 (1)   Common Stock Purchase Agreement dated March 19, 1990 between
                  the Company and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
       10.3 (8)   Lease dated March 27, 1995 for adjacent facilities at 2055 
                  Logic Drive and 2065 Logic Drive, San Jose, California.
       10.4 (8)   First Amendment to Master Lease dated April 27, 1995 for the 
                  Company's facilities at 2100 Logic Drive and 2101 Logic Drive,
                  San Jose, California.
         10.5*    1988 Stock Option Plan, as amended.
         10.6*    1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.
    10.7 (1) *    Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and its 
                  officers and directors.
   10.8 (4) (6)   Patent Cross License Agreement dated as of April 22, 1993 
                  between the Company and Actel Corporation.
     10.9.1 (5)   Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of March 29,
                  1995, among Registrant, NeoCAD, Inc. and XNX Acquisition
                  Corporation.
     10.9.2 (5)   Certificate of Merger filed on April 10, 1995 between NeoCAD, 
                  Inc. and XNX Acquisition Corporation.
      10.10 (7)   Employment Offer Letter dated August 5, 1994.
10.11.1 (6) (9)   Foundry Venture Agreement dated as of September 14, 1995
                  between the Company and United Microelectronics Corporation
                  ("UMC").
10.11.2 (6) (9)   Fabven Foundry Capacity Agreement dated as of September 14,
                  1995 between the Company and UMC.
10.11.3 (6) (9)   Written Assurances Re Foundry Venture Agreement dated as of 
                  September 29, 1995 between UMC and the Company.
         10.12    Indenture dated November 1, 1995 between the Company and
                  State Street Bank and Trust Company.
         10.13    Letter Agreement dated as of January 22, 1996 of the
                  Company to Willem P. Roelandts.
         10.14    Separation Agreement dated as of April 8, 1996 between the 
                  Company and Curtis Wozniak.
         10.15    Consulting Agreement dated as of June 1, 1996 between the
                  Company and Bernard V. Vonderschmitt.
      10.16 (6)   Advance Payment Agreement entered into on May 17, 1996
                  between Seiko Epson Corporation and the Company.
            11    Statement of Computation of Net Income Per Share.
            12    Statement of Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed
                  Charges.
          22.1    Subsidiaries of the Company.
            23    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.
          25.1    Power of Attorney.
            27    Financial Statement Schedule - Schedule II.

___________


(1)          Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
             Form S-1 (File No. 33-34568) which was declared effective June
             11, 1990.

(2)          Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended March 30, 1991.

(3)          Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on
             Form S-1 (File No. 33-43793) effective November 26, 1991.

(4)          Filed as an exhibit to the Company 's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended April 3, 1993.

(5)          Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
             filed on April 18, 1995.

(6)          Confidential treatment requested as to certain portions of these
             exhibits.

(7)          Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q for the quarter ended October 1, 1994.

(8)          Filed as an exhibit to the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
             the fiscal year ended April 1, 1995.

(9)          Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995.

 *           Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or  arrangement.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934, the Registrant, has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed
on  its  behalf  by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
San Jose, State of California, on the  20th day of June, 1996.

                                              XILINX, INC.



                                              By: /s/Willem P. Roelandts
                                              ---------------------------

                                              Willem P. Roelandts,
                                              Chief Executive Officer





