
10-K
0001.txt



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark  One)
[  X ]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  April  1,  2000  or
[    ]  Transition  report  pursuant  to  section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act  of  1934

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER   0-18548



                                  XILINX, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                                    DELAWARE
          (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

                                   77-0188631
                      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                   2100 LOGIC DRIVE, SAN JOSE, CA       95124
              (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)

                                 (408) 559-7778
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                       COMMON STOCK,       $.01 PAR VALUE

                               (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding  12  months  (or  for such shorter period that the registrant was
required  to  file  such reports), and (2) has been subject to such requirements
for  the  past  90  days.

                   YES   [  X  ]             NO   [   ]

Indicate  by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation  S-K  is  not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  the  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in  Part  III  of this Form 10-K or any
amendment  to  this  Form  10-K.  [   ]

The  aggregate  market  value  of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant,  based  upon  the  closing sale price of the Common Stock on May 22,
2000  as  reported  on  the  NASDAQ  National  Market  was  approximately
$18,595,119,000.  Shares  of  Common  Stock  held  by each executive officer and
director  and by each person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock
have  been  excluded  in  that  such  persons  may  be  deemed affiliates.  This
determination  of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination
for  other  purposes.

At  May  22,  2000,  the  registrant  had  325,754,000  shares  of  Common Stock
outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Parts  of  the  Proxy  Statement  for  the  Registrant's  2000 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders  are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K Report (Part III).


                                     PART I
                                     ------

ITEM  1.     BUSINESS

Items  1  and  3  of this 10-K contain forward-looking statements concerning our
development  efforts,  strategy,  new  product  introductions,  backlog  and
litigation.  These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including
those  discussed  throughout  this  document as well as under "Factors Affecting
Future  Operating  Results"  in  Item  7.

GENERAL

Xilinx,  Inc.  (Xilinx  or  the  Company) designs, develops and markets complete
programmable  logic  solutions,  including  advanced  integrated circuits (ICs),
software  design  tools, predefined system functions delivered as cores of logic
and  field  engineering  support.  Our programmable logic devices (PLDs) include
field  programmable  gate  arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices
(CPLDs).  These  devices  are  standard  products  that our customers program to
perform  desired  logic  functions.  Our  products  are designed to provide high
integration  and  quick  time-to-market  for  electronic equipment manufacturers
primarily  in  the  telecommunications,  networking,  computing,  industrial and
consumer  markets.  Our  products  are  sold  globally  through  a  network  of
independent  sales  representatives,  distributors,  and  to  original equipment
manufacturers  ("OEMs").

Competitive  pressures  compel manufacturers of electronic systems to accelerate
their  products'  introduction  to  market.  Customer  requirements for improved
functionality, performance, reliability and lower cost are addressed through the
use  of  components  that  integrate  ever  larger numbers of logic gates onto a
single  integrated  circuit.  Such  integration  often results in greater speed,
smaller  die  size,  lower  power  consumption  and  reduced  costs.  The  rapid
proliferation  of  the Internet and wireless communication networks continues to
fuel  the  demand  for  more  complex  integrated  circuits.  At  the same time,
tremendous  pressure  is  placed  on electronic equipment manufacturers' product
life  cycles.  Due  to their inherent complexity and reprogrammability, our PLDs
enable  electronic  equipment  manufacturers  to  effectively  respond  to these
evolving  market  trends.

We  were  organized  in  California  in  February 1984 and in November 1985 were
reorganized to incorporate our research and development limited partnership.  In
April  1990,  we  reincorporated  in  Delaware.  Our  corporate  facilities  and
executive  offices  are  located at 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124
and  our  website  is  www.xilinx.com.

Our  fiscal  year  ends  on  the  Saturday  nearest  March  31.  For  ease  of
presentation,  March  31  has  been  utilized  as  the  fiscal  year-end for all
financial  statement  captions.  Fiscal 2000 ended on April 1, 2000 while fiscal
1999  and  1998  ended  on  April  3,  1999  and  March  28, 1998, respectively.

PRODUCTS

Integral to the future success of our business is the timely introduction of new
products  which  address  customer  requirements  and compete effectively on the
basis  of  price,  functionality,  and  performance.  Delays  in  developing new
products  with anticipated technological advances or delays in commencing volume
shipments  of  new  products  could  have  an  adverse  effect  on our financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.  In addition, there can be no assurance
that  such  products,  if  introduced,  will  gain  market acceptance or respond
effectively  to  new  technological  changes  or  product introductions by other
companies.

     Programmable  Logic  Devices

We  currently  classify  our  product  offerings  into  four  categories  by
manufacturing  process  technology.  Base products consist of our mature product
families  that  are currently manufactured on technologies of 0.6-micron process
and  older.  Base  products  include  the  XC3000,  XC3100, and XC4000 families.
Mainstream  products  are  currently  manufactured  on  0.35  and  0.5-micron
technologies  and  include  the  XC4000E,  XC4000EX,  XC4000XL,  XC5200, XC9500,
XC9500XL, Spartan(TM) and CoolRunner(R) product lines. Advanced products include
Our newest technologies manufactured on 0.25-micron and smaller processes, which
include the XC4000XV, XC4000XLA, Spartan XL, Spartan-II, Virtex(TM), and
Virtex-E product  lines.   Support  products  comprise  the  fourth product
category, and include  serial  proms,  HardWire  devices,  and  software.

     Virtex  FPGAs:

The  Virtex  FPGA  series,  announced  in  October 1998, is the industry's first
million-gate FPGA.  Nine Virtex devices are currently in production.  The Virtex
devices  are  found  in  traditional  programmable  logic  applications  such as
networking  or  telecommunications,  and  in  applications  like  storage  area
networks, routers, high end servers, switching equipment, cellular base stations
and  High Definition Television (HDTV) infrastructure.  The Virtex devices range
from  50,000  to  1,000,000-  system  gate  densities  with 200 MHz chip-to-chip
performance  and  offer system-level integration capabilities. The Virtex family
delivers  the  first fully programmable alternative to high density system-level
Application  Specific  Integrated  Circuits  (ASIC)  design.

The  Virtex-E FPGA family includes a two million system gate device and supports
twice  the  system-gate  density  and 50 percent higher I/O performance than the
original  Virtex  FPGAs.  Four  family  members  are  currently  in  production,
including  the  new  XCV2000E  device  which began shipping in the third quarter
fiscal  year  2000.  The Virtex-E family will consist of 11 members, from 50,000
system gates to 3.2 million system gates. The new Virtex-E FPGAs, delivering new
performance  and  density attributes that were only previously addressed by ASIC
solutions,  are  targeted  for  next generation networking and telecommunication
applications.

Virtex-E FPGAs are the first programmable logic devices delivered on 0.18-micron
process  technology,  which  was  developed  by Taiwan's United Microelectronics
Corporation  (UMC)  with  our  assistance.  The  improved  process  directly
contributes  to  a  substantial  performance  gain.  The  Virtex-E  family  also
represents the industry's first programmable logic architecture with 210 million
transistors  on  a  single  device.

     XC4000  FPGAs:

The  XC4000XL  family  has 11 members shipping in volume ranging in density from
2,000  to  180,000  system  gates.  The XC4000XLA family expands on the XC4000XL
architecture  with  reduced power consumption and improved performance making it
the  industry's  highest performance 3.3-volt FPGA family.  The XC4000XLA family
has  eight  members  shipping  in  volume  and  ranges in density from 30,000 to
180,000  system  gates.  The  XC4000XV  is  a 2.5-volt FPGA family that utilizes
0.25-micron  technology.  The  family has four members with up to 500,000 system
gates.

     Spartan  FPGAs:

The  Xilinx  Spartan  and  SpartanXL  FPGA  families are derived from the XC4000
architecture.  These  families  feature low-cost ASIC replacement with densities
ranging  from  5,000  to 40,000 system gates.  In January 2000, we announced the
Spartan-II  family,  our  newest  generation  of  high-volume FPGAs.  Spartan-II
devices  are  designed  to  be  low cost programmable replacements for ASICs and
application  specific standard products (ASSPs).  New features in the Spartan-II
family address a larger range of high-volume applications and open up new market
opportunities  for  programmable  logic.

     CPLDs:

The  XC9500XL  family  offers  in-system  programmability  for both 3.3-volt and
5.0-volt  systems.  The  XC9500XV  is  the industry's first 2.5-volt CPLD family
with  significantly  reduced  power  consumption.

In  August  1999  we  acquired Philips Semiconductors' line of low-power complex
programmable  logic devices (CPLDs) called the CoolRunner family of devices.  We
also  purchased Philips Semiconductors' XPLA Professional suite of design tools.
The  CoolRunner  line  is  the first family of CPLD products to combine very low
power  with  high  speed,  high density, and high I/O counts in a single device.
CoolRunner  CPLDs  also  use  far  less  dynamic  power  during actual operation
compared  to  conventional  CPLDs,  an  important  feature  for  today's  mobile
computing  applications.

     Software,  Cores  &  Support

We  offer  complete  software  design  tool  solutions which enable customers to
implement  their  design  specifications  into  our PLDs.  These software design
tools  combine  powerful  technology  with  a  flexible,  easy  to use graphical
interface  to  help  achieve  the  best  possible designs within each customer's
project  schedule,  regardless  of  the  designer's  experience  level.

We  offer  two  complementary software design tool solutions.  Xilinx Foundation
Series software provides designers with a complete, ready-to-use design solution
based  on industry-standard hardware description languages (HDLs) and is easy to
learn and use.  For those customers new to designing with PLDs or desiring a low
cost  approach,  we offer this fully integrated software solution.  The Alliance
Series  is  tailored  for  designers  who  want maximum flexibility to integrate
programmable  logic  design into their existing EDA environment and methodology.
With interfaces to over fifty EDA vendors, Alliance Series Software allows users
to  select  tools  with  which  they are most familiar, thereby increasing their
productivity  and  shortening  their  end  products'  design  cycle.

addition, we offer CPLD WebPACK(TM) solutions, which are a collection of free
downloadable  software  modules.  Customers can register and download any of the
WebPACK(TM) modules to complete Xilinx XC9500 or CoolRunner Series CPLD designs.

We  also  offer  intellectual  property cores of logic for commonly used complex
functions  such  as  digital signal processing (DSP), bus interfaces, processors
and  peripheral  interfaces.  Using logic cores, available from Xilinx and third
party  AllianceCORE  partners,  customers  can  shorten development time, reduce
design  risk  and  obtain superior performance for their designs.  Additionally,
our  CORE  Generator  system allows customers to implement intellectual property
cores  into our PLDs.  It offers a simple user interface, complete cataloging of
available  cores,  easy  selection  of  parameter-based  cores optimized for our
FPGAs,  and  features an interface to third-party system level DSP design tools.
The  CORE  Generator  is  shipped  with  our  software  design tools and is also
available  via  our  web  site.

Our  software  design  tools  operate  on  desktop computer platforms, including
personal computers with Microsoft Windows '95, '98 and NT operating systems, and
workstations  from  IBM,  HP and  Sun  Microsystems.

RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Our  research  and  development  activities  are  primarily directed towards the
design  of new integrated circuits, the development of new software design tools
and  cores  of  logic,  the  development of advanced semiconductor manufacturing
processes,  as  well  as ongoing cost reductions and performance improvements in
existing  products.  Our  primary  areas  of  focus  have been: to introduce the
industry's  first  programmable  system integration solution (Virtex devices), a
low-cost  ASIC  replacement  FPGA  solution  (Spartan  devices),  to  extend the
performance  and  density  range  of  the  industry's  most  popular FPGA series
(XC4000XLA/XV  families),  to  increase segment share in the CPLD market segment
(XC9500XL/XV & CoolRunner families), and release new versions of software design
tools  and  cores  of  logic.

Our  research  and  development challenge is to continue to develop new products
that  create  cost-effective solutions for customers.  In fiscal 2000, 1999, and
1998,  our research and development expenses were $123.6 million, $90.9 million,
and $80.5 million, respectively.  We expect we will continue to make substantial
investments  in  research  and  development.  We believe technical leadership is
essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant
level  of  research  and  development effort. However, there can be no assurance
that  any  of our research and development efforts will be successful, timely or
cost-effective.

MARKETING  AND  SALES

We  sell  our  products through several industrial distributors: direct sales to
manufacturers  by  independent  sales  representative  firms,  sales  through
franchised  domestic  distributors,  and sales through foreign distributors.  In
order to provide service to existing customers and reach potential customers, we
also  utilize  a  direct  sales  management  organization and field applications
engineers  (FAEs).  Our independent representatives generally address larger OEM
customers  and act as a direct sales force, while distributors serve the balance
of  our  customer  base.  Our  sales  and customer support personnel support all
channels  and  consult with customers about their plans, ensuring that the right
software  and  devices  are  selected  at the beginning of a customer's project.

Avnet,  Inc.,  and  VEBA  distribute  our  products  worldwide,  and Nu Horizons
Electronics  provides additional regional sales coverage.  From time to time, we
may  add  or  terminate  distributors  from  our selling organization as we deem
appropriate  given  the  level  of  business.  We believe distributors provide a
cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers.  Since our PLDs are
standard  products,  they  do  not  present  many  of  the  inventory  risks  to
distributors  as  compared  to  custom  gate  arrays,  and  they  simplify  the
requirements  for  distributor  technical  support.

We  changed  our accounting method during fiscal 1999 for recognizing revenue on
all  shipments  to  international  distributors.  While  we  previously deferred
revenue  on shipments to domestic distributors until the product was sold to the
end user, we recognized revenue upon shipment to international distributors, net
of  estimated  reserves  for  returns  and allowances.  Following the accounting
change,  revenue  recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred
until  the  products  are  sold  to the end customer.  Distributors have certain
rights  of  return  and  price protection privileges on unsold product until the
product  is  sold.

BACKLOG  AND  CUSTOMERS

As  of  March  31,  2000,  our backlog of purchase orders scheduled for delivery
within the next three months was $174.3 million, after adjustments for estimated
discounts.  Backlog  as  of March 31, 1999 was $122.0 million, after adjustments
for  estimated  discounts.  Backlog  amounts  for  both  years include orders to
distributors,  which  may  receive price adjustments upon sale to end customers.
Also, orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery
schedule  or  to cancellation at the option of the purchaser without significant
penalty.  Accordingly,  although useful for scheduling production, backlog as of
any  particular  date  may  not be a reliable measure of revenues for any future
period.

No  end  customer  accounted for more than 10% of revenues in fiscal years 2000,
1999,  or  1998.  (See  Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item  8  for  geographic  sales  information.)

WAFER  FABRICATION

We do not directly manufacture processed wafers used for our products.  Over the
last  several  years, the majority of our wafer purchases have been manufactured
by  United  Microelectronics  Corporation,  (UMC),  UMC  affiliated  companies
including  our  former joint venture, USIC, Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko), and
Taiwan  Semiconductor Manufacture Company (TSMC).  Precise terms with respect to
the  volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by
the  semiconductor  foundries  are  determined  by periodic negotiations between
Xilinx  and  these  wafer  foundry  partners.

Our  strategy  is to focus our resources on creating new integrated circuits and
software  design  tools  and  on  market  development  rather  than  on  wafer
fabrication.  We  continuously  evaluate  opportunities  to  enhance  foundry
relationships  and/or obtain additional capacity from both our main suppliers as
well  as  other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies.  As a result, we
have  entered  into  agreements  with  UMC  and  Seiko  as  discussed  below.

Xilinx, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and other parties entered into
a  joint  venture  to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as
United  Silicon  Inc.  (USIC).  (See  Note  4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8.)  We made a total cumulative investment of  $107.1 million
in  USIC. In January 2000, our equity position in USIC was converted into shares
of  UMC  which  are  publicly  traded  on  the Taiwan Stock Exchange.  We retain
monthly  guaranteed  wafer  capacity  rights  in  UMC  as  long  as  we retain a
percentage  of  our  UMC shares.  (See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  in  Item  8.)

In  fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko.  (See Note 2
of  Notes  to  Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.)  This agreement was
amended  in fiscal 1998 and provided for an advance to Seiko for $150.0 million.
In  conjunction with the agreement, $60.0 million was paid in fiscal 1997 and an
additional  $90.0 million was paid in fiscal 1998.  Repayment of this advance is
made  in  the form of wafer deliveries, which began during the fourth quarter of
fiscal  1998.  Specific  wafer  pricing is in U.S. dollars and is based upon the
prices  of  similar  wafers  manufactured  by  other,  specifically  identified,
leading-edge  foundry  suppliers.

SORT,  ASSEMBLY  AND  TEST

Wafers  purchased  by  us  are  sorted  by  the  wafer foundry, independent sort
subcontractors  or  by  us.  Sorted  wafers  are  assembled by subcontractors in
facilities  in  Pacific  Rim countries.  During the assembly process, the wafers
are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package
types.  Following  assembly,  the  packaged units are tested by independent test
subcontractors  or  by  Xilinx  personnel  at  our  San  Jose or Dublin, Ireland
facilities.

PATENTS  AND  LICENSES

Through  March  31,  2000,  we held over 400 issued United States patents and we
maintain  an  active  program  of  filing for additional patents in the areas of
software,  IC  architecture  and  design.  We  intend  to vigorously protect our
intellectual  property.  We  believe  that  failure to enforce our patents or to
effectively  protect  our  trade  secrets  could  have  an adverse effect on our
financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.  In the future, we may incur
litigation  expenses  to  enforce our intellectual property rights against third
parties.  There  is  no  assurance that any such litigation would be successful.
(See  Legal Proceedings in Item 3 and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  in  Item  8.)

We  have  acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant object code
sublicenses  to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed
with  our software design tools.  In addition, we have licensed certain software
for  internal  use  in  product  design.

EMPLOYEES

Xilinx's  employee  population  grew  30% during the past year.  As of March 31,
2000, Xilinx had 1,939 employees compared to 1,491 at the end of the prior year.
None of our employees are represented by a labor union.  We have not experienced
any  work  stoppages  and  believe  we  maintain  good  employee  relations.

COMPETITION

Our  PLDs compete in the logic industry.  The industries in which we compete are
intensely  competitive  and  are  characterized  by  rapid technological change,
product  obsolescence  and  continuous  price  erosion.  We  expect  increased
competition,  both from our primary competitors, Altera Corporation, and Lattice
Semiconductor  Corporation and from a number of new companies that may enter our
market.  We believe that important competitive factors in the programmable logic
industry  include:

  -     product  pricing;
  -     product  performance,  reliability  and  density;
  -     the  adaptability  of  products  to  specific  applications;
  -     ease  of  use  and  functionality  of  software  design  tools;
  -     functionality  of  predefined  cores  of  logic;  and
  -     the  ability  to  provide  timely  customer  service  and  support.

Our  strategy  for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction
of new product architectures which address high volume, low cost applications as
well  as  high  performance, leading-edge density applications.  In addition, we
anticipate  continued  price  reductions proportionate with our ability to lower
the manufacturing cost for established products.  However, we cannot assure that
we  will  be  successful  in  achieving  these  strategies.

Our  major  sources  of  competition  are  comprised  of  several  elements:

  -     providers of high  density  programmable logic products characterized by
        FPGA-type  architectures;
  -     providers of high  volume and low cost FPGAs as programmable replacement
        for  ASICs  and  application  specific  standard  products  (ASSPs).;
  -     providers  of  high  speed,  low  density  CPLD  devices;
  -     the  manufacturers  of  custom  gate  arrays;
  -     providers  of  competitive  software  development  tools;
  -     other  providers  of  new  or  emerging  programmable  logic  products.

We compete with high density programmable logic suppliers on the basis of device
performance,  the  ability  to  deliver  complete solutions to customers, device
power  consumption  and  customer  support  by  taking  advantage of the primary
characteristics  of  our  PLD product offerings which include: flexibility, high
speed  implementation,  quick  time-to-market  and system level capabilities. We
compete  with  ASIC  manufacturers  on  the basis of lower design costs, shorter
development  schedules, reduced inventory risk and field upgradability. The ASIC
market  segment  has been declining, and ASICs are being replaced by other logic
options.  The  primary  attributes of ASICs are high density, high speed and low
production  costs  in  high  volumes.  We  continue  to  develop  lower  cost
architectures  intended  to narrow the gap between current ASIC production costs
(in  high  volumes) and PLD production costs.  As PLDs have increased in density
and  performance  and  decreased  in  cost  due  to  the  advanced manufacturing
processes,  they  have  become  more  directly competitive with ASICs.  With the
introduction  of  our  Spartan  family,  which is Xilinx's low cost programmable
replacement  for  ASICs,  we  seek  to  grow  by  directly  competing with other
companies  in  the ASIC segment.  Many of the companies in the ASIC segment have
substantially  greater financial, technical and marketing resources than Xilinx.
Consequently,  there can be no assurance that we will be successful in competing
in the ASIC segment. Competition among PLD suppliers and manufacturers of new or
emerging  programmable  logic products is based primarily on price, performance,
design,  customer  support, software utility and the ability to deliver complete
solutions  to  customers.  Some  of  our  current  or potential competitors have
substantially  greater  financial,  manufacturing,  marketing,  distribution and
technical  resources  than we do.  To the extent that our efforts to compete are
not  successful,  our  financial  condition  and  results of operations could be
materially  adversely  affected.

The  benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of companies to this
market.  We recognize that different applications require different programmable
technologies,  and  we  are  developing architectures, processes and products to
meet  these  varying  customer  needs.  Recognizing the increasing importance of
standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that
support  the  full  range  of  integrated  circuit  products.  We  believe  that
automation  and  ease  of  design are significant competitive factors in the PLD
segment.

Several  companies,  both large and small, have introduced products that compete
with  ours  or have announced their intention to enter the PLD segment.  Some of
our competitors may possess innovative technology, which could prove superior to
our  technology  in  certain applications.  In addition, we anticipate potential
competition from suppliers of logic products based on new technologies.  Some of
our  current  or  potential  competitors  have  substantially greater financial,
manufacturing,  marketing  and  technical resources than we do.  This additional
competition  could  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition  and results of
operations.

We  could  also  face  competition from our licensees.  Under a license from us,
Lucent  Technologies  has  rights  to  manufacture  and  market  our XC3000 FPGA
products and also employ that technology to provide additional high density FPGA
products.  Seiko Epson has rights to manufacture some of our products and market
them  in Japan and Europe, but is not currently doing so.   We granted a license
to  use  certain  of  our patents to Advanced Micro Devices (AMD).  AMD produced
certain  programmable  logic devices under that license through its wholly owned
subsidiary,  Vantis.  In  June  1999,  AMD sold the Vantis subsidiary to Lattice
Semiconductor  Corporation.


EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

Certain  information  regarding each of Xilinx's executive officers is set forth
below:



There  are  no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company.
On  the  Board  of  Directors,  Mr. Vonderschmitt, Chairman of the Board, is the
brother-in-law  of  Mr.  Sanda,  Director.

Willem  P. "Wim" Roelandts joined the Company in January 1996 as Chief Executive
Officer and a member of the Company's Board of Directors.  In April 1996, he was
appointed  to  the  additional  position  as President of the Company.  Prior to
joining  the  Company,  he  served  at  Hewlett-Packard  Company,  a  computer
manufacturer,  as  Senior Vice President and General Manager of Computer Systems
Organizations  from  August  1992 through January 1996 and as Vice President and
General  Manager  of the Network Systems Group from December 1990 through August
1992.

Kris  Chellam  joined the Company in July 1998 as Senior Vice President, Finance
and  Chief  Financial Officer.  Prior to joining the Company, he served at Atmel
Corporation as Senior Vice President and General Manager of a product group from
March  to July 1998 and as Vice President, Finance and Administration, and Chief
Financial  Officer  from  September  1991  through  March  1998.

Steven  Haynes  joined  the Company in 1987 as the Regional Sales Manager of the
Northeast region, was promoted to Area Sales Director in 1988, and was appointed
Vice President, North American Sales in 1995.  In November 1998, he was promoted
and  now  holds  the  position  of  Vice  President,  Worldwide  Sales.

Randy  Ong joined the Company in 1990 as Senior Staff Engineer, and was promoted
to  Vice  President  of  Worldwide  Operations  in  1997.  He  has  overall
responsibility  for  manufacturing,  quality assurance, testing, reliability and
package  development  for  Xilinx  programmable logic devices.  He also oversees
strategic management of the Company's semiconductor foundry partners.  He earned
his  bachelor's and master's degrees in electrical engineering at the University
of  California,  Berkeley.

Dennis  Segers  joined  the  Company  in  January  1994 as Director of Strategic
Products  and  was  promoted  to  Vice President and General Manager in November
1995.  In  April  1998,  he  was  appointed  Senior  Vice President, and General
Manager  of  Advanced  Products  Group.

Richard W. Sevcik joined the Company in April 1997 as Senior Vice President, IP,
Services  and  Software.  He  was at Hewlett-Packard Company for 10 years where,
from  1994  through  1996,  he  served as Group General Manager of the company's
Systems  Technology  Group  and  oversaw  five  divisions  involved with product
development  for  servers,  workstations,  operating  systems,  microprocessors,
networking  and  security.  In  1995  he was named Vice President.  From 1992 to
1994, he served as Group General Manager of Computer Systems and Servers and was
responsible  for  four  divisions.

Sandeep  S. Vij joined the Company in April 1996 as Director, FPGA Marketing and
was  promoted to Vice President, Marketing in October 1996.  In October 1997, he
was  appointed  to  the  additional  position  of General Manager of the General
Products  Group.  From 1990 until April 1996, he served at Altera Corporation, a
semiconductor  manufacturer,  where  he  most  recently  served  as  the Product
Marketing  Manager  of  High  Volume  FPGA.

Evert  A.  Wolsheimer  joined  the  Company  in  1991 as Vice President, Product
Technology, with responsibility for process technology, wafer foundry, assembly,
reliability  and  product  engineering.  He  was  promoted to Vice President and
General  Manager  of  the  CPLD  Group  in  1997.  He has served on the Board of
Directors  of  the  Fabless  Semiconductor  Association  (FSA)  since 1997.  Dr.
Wolsheimer received his Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Delft University of
Technology,  The  Netherlands.

ITEM  2.     PROPERTIES

Our  corporate  offices,  which  include  the  administrative,  sales,  customer
support,  marketing,  research  and  development  and  final  testing groups are
located in San Jose, California.  The site includes adjacent buildings providing
588,000  square  feet  of  available  space  which  we  own.

In  addition,  we  have  a  100,000  square  foot  administrative,  research and
development  and  final  testing  facility  in  the metropolitan area of Dublin,
Ireland, a 60,000 square foot facility in Boulder, Colorado, and a 45,000 square
foot  facility  in Albuquerque, New Mexico.  The Irish facility is being used to
service our customer base outside of North America.  The Boulder facility is the
primary  location  for  our  software  efforts  in  the  areas  of  research and
development,  manufacturing and quality control while the New Mexico facility is
being used for the development of our CoolRunner CPLD product.  Additionally, we
own  a  59-acre  parcel  of land located in Longmont, Colorado, near our current
Boulder  facility.  Groundbreaking to develop a new 130,000 square feet facility
in  Longmont  was  started  in  March  2000. The expansion of our Irish facility
includes  an additional 500,000 square feet of building and manufacturing space.
The  first phase of 100,000 square feet will start in July 2000. We purchased 87
acres  of  land in San Jose, California, near our corporate facility in February
2000.  Plans for infrastructure and the future development of this land have not
been  finalized.

We  also  maintain  North  American  sales offices in twenty-six locations which
include the metropolitan areas of Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Dallas, Los Angeles,
Minneapolis,  Philadelphia,  Raleigh and San Jose as well as international sales
offices  located  in the metropolitan areas of London, Munich, Paris, Stockholm,
Milan,  Brussels,  Tel  Aviv,  Tokyo,  Taipei,  Seoul  and  Hong  Kong.

ITEM  3.     LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS

On June 7, 1993, we filed suit against Altera Corporation (Altera) in the United
States  District  Court for the Northern District of California for infringement
of  certain  of  our  patents.  Subsequently,  Altera filed suit against Xilinx,
alleging that certain of our products infringe certain Altera patents.  Fact and
expert  discovery  have  been  completed  in  both  cases,  which  have  been
consolidated.  Both  Altera  and Xilinx filed motions with the Court for summary
judgement  with respect to certain of the issues pending in the litigation.   In
October  1999,  the  Court  ruled  on all but one of the motions. As a result of
those  rulings,  Altera is left with one claim against Xilinx, which remains the
subject  of  a  Company  motion for summary judgment. A ruling on this motion is
pending. The Court's rulings also dismissed certain claims by us, leaving intact
claims of infringement under two Company patents by Altera. The remaining claims
against  Altera  will be decided at a trial scheduled to begin in October, 2000.
If  the remaining claim against Xilinx survives the motion for summary judgment,
it  will be decided at a trial, which is currently scheduled to commence on June
19,  2000.

On April 20, 1995, Altera filed an additional suit against Xilinx in the Federal
District  Court in Delaware, alleging that our XC5200 family infringes an Altera
patent.  We  answered the Delaware suit denying that the XC5200 family infringes
the  patent  in suit, asserting certain affirmative defenses and counterclaiming
that  the Altera Max 9000 family infringes certain of our patents.  The Delaware
suit  was  transferred  to  the  United  States  District Court for the Northern
District  of  California.

On  July  22, 1998, Altera and Joseph Ward, a former Xilinx employee, filed suit
against  Xilinx in Superior Court in Santa Clara County, California, arising out
of  our  efforts  to  prevent  disclosure  of  certain  Company  confidential
information.  Altera's  suit  requests  declaratory  relief  and  claims  Xilinx
engages  in  unfair  business  practices  and  interference  with  contractual
relations.  On  September 10, 1998 we filed cross claims against Altera and Ward
for  unfair  competition  and  breach  of  contract,  among other claims, in the
California  action.  On  October  20,  1998,  Altera  and Ward filed crossclaims
against  Xilinx  for  malicious  prosecution  of civil action and defamation. On
September 15, 1999, the Court dismissed all of our claims against Altera and Mr.
Ward, finding that we were unable to show any damages we suffered as a result of
any  actions  by  Mr.  Ward.  Claims  against  Xilinx  are  still  pending.

The  ultimate  outcome  of  these  matters  cannot  be  determined at this time.
Management  believes  that  it  has  meritorious  defenses to such claims and is
defending them vigorously.  The foregoing is a forward-looking statement subject
to risks and uncertainties, and the future outcome of these matters could differ
materially  due to the uncertain nature of each legal proceeding and because the
lawsuits  are  still  in  the  pre-trial  stages.

On  May  31, 2000, Altera filed an additional suit against Xilinx in the Federal
District  Court  for  the Northern District of California, alleging that certain
Xilinx products, including our Virtex(tm) FPGAs, infringe three Altera patents.
Altera's  suit  requests  unspecified monetary damages as well as issuance of an
injunction  to  prevent  Xilinx from selling allegedly infringing parts.  Xilinx
has not yet had the opportunity to fully review this latest suit and investigate
the  facts  related  thereto, and therefore can make no comment as to its likely
outcome.

On July 31, 1998, the Lemelson Foundation Partnership (Lemelson) filed a lawsuit
in  the United States District Court in Phoenix, Arizona against the Company and
twenty-five (25) other United States semiconductor companies for infringement of
certain  of  its  patents.  During  the third quarter of fiscal 1999, we entered
into  a  license settlement with Lemelson.  In response, Lemelson dismissed with
prejudice  all  claims  against  us.

There  are  no  other pending legal proceedings of a material nature to which we
are a party or of which any of our property is the subject.  We know of no legal
proceedings  contemplated  by  any  governmental  authority  or  agency.

ITEM  4.     SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY  HOLDERS

No  matters  were  submitted  to  a  vote  of security holders during the fourth
quarter  of  the  fiscal  year  covered  by  this  report.


                                     PART II
                                     -------

ITEM  5.     MARKET  FOR  THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY  AND RELATED
             STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Xilinx's  Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ/AMEX National Market System under
the symbol XLNX. As of March 31, 2000, there were approximately 940 shareholders
of  record.  Since  many holders' shares are listed under their brokerage firms'
names,  the  actual  number  of  shareholders  is estimated by the Company to be
approximately  158,000.




ITEM  6.     SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA

CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENT  OF  INCOME  DATA




CONSOLIDATED  BALANCE  SHEET  DATA





ITEM  7.     MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CAUTIONARY  STATEMENT

The  statements  in  this  Management's Discussion and Analysis that are forward
looking  involve  numerous  risks  and  uncertainties  and  are based on current
expectations.  Actual results may differ materially.  Certain of these risks and
uncertainties  are discussed under "Factors Affecting Future Operating Results".
Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking
words,  such  as  "may,"  "will,"  "could,"  "should,"  "expect,"  "believe,"
"anticipate,"  "estimate,"  "continue,"  "plan,"  "intend,"  "project," or other
similar  words.

NATURE  OF  OPERATIONS

Xilinx,  Inc.  (Xilinx  or  the  Company) designs, develops and markets complete
programmable  logic  solutions,  including  advanced  integrated circuits (ICs),
software  design  tools, predefined system functions delivered as cores of logic
and  field  engineering  support.  Our  programmable  logic  ICs  include  field
programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs).
These components are standard ICs programmed by our customers to perform desired
logic  operations.  Our  products  are  designed to provide high integration and
quick  time-to-market  for  electronic  equipment  manufacturers  primarily  in
telecommunications,  networking, computing, and consumer markets.  We market our
products  throughout the world through a direct sales organization, direct sales
to  manufacturers  by  independent  sales  representative  firms,  sales through
franchised  domestic  distributors  and sales through foreign distributors.  Our
products  have  provided  effective solutions for a wide range of customer logic
requirements.

RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS

     NET  REVENUE


Xilinx's  net  revenue  increased  54.2% in fiscal 2000 compared to fiscal 1999.
The increase was primarily due to the significant growth in XC4000XL, XC4000XLA,
XC9500, Spartan(TM), and  Virtex  product  lines,  which was partially offset by
decreased  revenues  in  our  mature XC4000 family.  The 7.9% increase in fiscal
1999  over  1998 was primarily due to the penetration in high-growth end markets
attributable  to  the  XC4000EX,  XC4000XL  and  XC9500  product  lines.

We  classify  our  product  offerings  into  four  categories  by  semiconductor
manufacturing process technology.  These four product categories are adjusted on
a  regular  basis  to  accommodate  corresponding  changes  in  our  technology.
Advanced  products  include  our newest technologies manufactured on 0.25-micron
and  smaller  processes,  which  include  the  XC4000XV,  XC4000XLA, Spartan XL,
Spartan-II, Virtex, and Virtex-E product lines.  Advanced products represented
26.7%  and  3.1%  of  total  revenues  in fiscal 2000 and 1999.  The significant
increases in revenues of advanced products were due to the introduction and
strong  market  acceptance  of  XC4000XLA,  Spartan  XL  and  Virtex  products.
Mainstream  products  are  currently  manufactured  on  0.35  and  0.5-micron
technologies  and  include  the  XC4000E,  XC4000EX,  XC4000XL,  XC5200, XC9500,
XC9500XL, Spartan and CoolRunner product lines.  Mainstream products represented
52.6%  of  total revenues in fiscal 2000 and 63.0% in fiscal 1999.  Increases in
revenues  of  28.7% were attributable mainly to growth in the XC4000XL, Spartan,
and  XC9500  product  lines,  along  with  the  acquisition  of  CoolRunner  and
introduction  of XC9500XL.  Base products consist of our mature product families
that  are  currently  manufactured on technologies of 0.6-micron and older; this
includes  the XC2000, XC3000, XC3100, XC4000 and XC7000 families.  Base products
represented  12.3%  of  total  revenues  in fiscal 2000, as compared to 22.2% in
fiscal  1999.  Our  Support  products  make  up  the  remainder  of  our product
offerings  and  include  serial proms, HardWire, and software.  Support products
represented  8.4%  and  11.7%  of  total  revenues  in  fiscal  2000  and  1999,
respectively.  Revenues  of  Base products decreased 14.5% as customers migrated
to newer product offerings while revenues of Support products increased slightly
due to increased revenues from serial proms.  No end customer accounted for more
than  10%  of  revenues in fiscal 2000, 1999 or 1998.  The revenue by technology
for  the  years  ended  March  31,  2000,  1999  and  1998  was  as  follows:



In  order  to  compete  effectively,  we pass on to customers manufacturing cost
reductions  by  reducing  prices  to  the extent that we can maintain acceptable
returns.  Price  erosion  has  been  common  in  the  semiconductor industry, as
advances  in  both  architecture  and  manufacturing  process  technology  have
permitted  continual reductions in unit cost.  We have historically been able to
offset  much  of  the revenue declines of our mature technologies with increased
revenues from newer technologies, although no assurance can be given that we can
continue  to  do  so  in  the  future.

International  revenues  represented  approximately  33%,  32%, and 38% of total
revenues  for  fiscal  years  2000,  1999 and 1998, respectively.  International
revenues  are  derived  from customers in Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific/Rest of
World which represented approximately 20%, 8%, and 5% of our worldwide revenues,
respectively,  in  fiscal  2000  as  compared to approximately 21%, 7% and 4% in
fiscal  1999.   In  fiscal  1998,  Europe,  Japan and Asia Pacific/Rest of World
represented  approximately  22%, 10% and 5% of worldwide revenues, respectively.
Europe,  Japan  and  Asia  Pacific/Rest of World experienced significant revenue
growth  in  fiscal  2000 as compared to fiscal 1999 due to wider adoption of our
new  products  in  consumer  and telecommunication applications and the economic
recovery  in  Japan and the Asia Pacific region.  Japan and Asia Pacific/Rest of
World  experienced revenue declines in fiscal 1999 as compared to 1998 primarily
due  to  a  weak economic environment in those regions during fiscal 1999.  (See
Note  11  of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for revenue by geography
for  the  three  years  ended  March  31,  2000,  1999  and  1998.)

During  the  fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, we changed our accounting method for
recognizing  revenue on all shipments to international distributors.  The change
was  made  retroactive  to  the  beginning  of fiscal 1999.  While we previously
deferred  revenue  on shipments to domestic distributors until the products were
sold  to  the  end  user,  we  recognized revenue upon shipment to international
distributors, net of appropriate reserves for returns and allowances.  Following
the  accounting  change,  revenue  recognition  on  shipments  to  distributors
worldwide  is  deferred  until  the  products  are sold to the end customer.  We
believe  that deferral of revenue on shipments to distributors until the product
is  shipped  by  the  distributor  to  an  end  customer  is  a  more meaningful
measurement  of  results of operations as it better conforms to the substance of
the  transaction  considering  the  changing  business  environment  in  the
international  marketplace,  is  consistent  with  industry  practice,  and
accordingly,  it  will  focus us better on end customer sales; therefore it is a
preferable  method  of  accounting.  The  cumulative  effect  of  the  change in
accounting  method  for  prior years was a charge of $26.6 million, net of $12.0
million  in  taxes,  or  $0.09  net  income  per  diluted  share.

     GROSS  MARGIN



During  fiscal  2000,  our  gross  margin percentage increased slightly from the
prior  year  as  efficiencies  from  increased  production  volumes  resulted in
decreased  costs  as  a percentage of revenue.  In fiscal 1999, our gross margin
percentage  declined  from  fiscal  1998  as a result of a non-recurring royalty
payment  made  pursuant  to  a  license  settlement  with  Lemelson  Foundation
Partnership  which  was  partially  offset  by  lower  wafer  prices  from wafer
suppliers,  manufacturing  process  technology improvements, and improved yields
that  offset  selling  price  reductions.  (See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements.)   We  recognize  that  ongoing  price reductions for our
integrated  circuits  are  a significant element in expanding the demand for our
products.  Management  believes  that  a gross margin objective of approximately
62%  of  revenues is consistent with expanding demand while realizing acceptable
returns, although there can be no assurance that future gross margins can remain
in  this  range.

     RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT



We  increased  our expenditures in research and development as we have done each
year  during our sixteen-year history.  The increase in research and development
expenditures  from  fiscal  1999 to 2000 was due to designing and developing new
product  architectures  of  complex,  high  density  devices  including  wafer
purchases,  development  of  advanced process technologies using 0.22-micron and
0.18-micron  technologies,  software development, increased labor-related costs,
and  testing  of  new  products,  along with increased costs associated with the
acquisition  of  the  CoolRunner  CPLD  business.  (See  Note  13  of  Notes  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements.)  The  increase in research and development
expenses  from  fiscal  1998 to 1999 was due to increased labor-related expenses
along  with  increased  costs  associated  with  the  assets  purchased  from MI
Acquisition  LLP.  (See  Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
We remain committed to a significant level of research and development effort in
order  to  maintain  our  technology  leadership  in  the  programmable  logic
marketplace.  Through  March  31,  2000,  we  have received over 400 issued U.S.
patents  and  we  maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in
the  areas  of  IC  architecture,  circuit  design  ,  and  software.

     SALES,  GENERAL  AND  ADMINISTRATIVE



The  39.0% increase in sales, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2000
was  primarily  attributable  to  increased  personnel  and facilities expenses,
increased  marketing  expenses,  increased  outside  sales commissions and sales
incentives  on  higher  revenues.  Sales,  general  and  administrative expenses
increased  4.4% in fiscal 1999 over 1998 due to increased marketing expenses and
increased sales commissions on higher revenues from U.S. distributors along with
increased  personnel  costs.  Although  total  sales, general and administrative
expenses  increased,  they  decreased  as a percent of revenue because of strong
revenue  growth  and  improved operational efficiencies.  We remain committed to
controlling  administrative  expenses.  However, the timing and extent of future
legal costs associated with the ongoing enforcement of our intellectual property
rights are not readily predictable and may significantly increase in the future.

     CAPITAL  GAIN  FROM  MERGER  OF  USIC  WITH  UMC

In January 2000, our equity position in United Silicon Inc. (USIC) was converted
into  shares  of UMC which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange.  We
recognized  a gain of $674.7 million ($398.1 million net of taxes) in our fiscal
2000  fourth  quarter  as  a  result  of  the merger of USIC with UMC.  The gain
represents  the  appreciation  of  our  investment in USIC.  As a result of this
merger,  we  own  approximately  222  million  UMC  shares,  which  represent
approximately 2% of the combined UMC Group.  We retain equivalent wafer capacity
rights in UMC as we previously had in USIC, as long as we retain a percentage of
our shares of UMC common stock.  If our holdings fall below that percentage, our
wafer  capacity  rights  would  be decreased prorated by the UMC shares we hold.

Due  to  restrictions imposed by UMC and the Taiwan Stock Exchange, the majority
of  our  UMC  shares  may  not  be  sold  until  July  2000.  These  regulatory
restrictions  will  gradually  expire  between  July  2000  and  January  2004.

     INTEREST  AND  OTHER  INCOME,  NET



We  earn  interest  income  on  our  cash,  cash  equivalents and short-term and
long-term  investments.  The  amount  of  interest  earned  is a function of the
balance  of  cash invested as well as prevailing interest rates.  In fiscal 1999
and 1998, we incurred interest expense on the $250.0 million 5 1/4 % convertible
subordinated  notes,  which  were  fully  converted  in  February  1999.

Average  cash  and  investment  balances increased 58% from the prior year while
interest  rates  remained  relatively flat from fiscal 1999 to fiscal 2000.  The
268%  increase  in interest and other income in fiscal 2000 from fiscal 1999 was
primarily  due  to the $11.2 million decrease in interest expense related to the
redemption  of  the  convertible  notes  in February 1999 and increased interest
income  on  higher  average cash and investment balances.  In 1999, average cash
and  investment  balances  decreased slightly from the prior year while interest
rates increased moderately, keeping interest income constant from fiscal 1998 to
fiscal 1999.  The 10.4% increase in interest and other income in fiscal 1999 was
primarily  due  to the decrease in interest expense related to the redemption of
the  convertible  notes  offset  partially  by  an  increase in foreign currency
exchange losses.  The amount of net interest and other income in the future will
continue to be impacted by the level of our average cash and investment balance,
prevailing  interest  rates,  the  balances of any debt outstanding, and foreign
currency  exchange  rates.

     PROVISION  FOR  INCOME  TAXES



*  The  total  provision  for taxes on income in fiscal 2000 was $378.0 million,
including  $276.6  million in capital gains tax on the UMC merger.  The combined
rate  for  the  fiscal  year  2000  was  36.9%.

The tax rates in fiscal 2000 and 1999 were lower than fiscal 1998 because of the
R&D  tax credit and increased profits from foreign operations where the tax rate
is  lower  than  the  U.S.  rate.

     JOINT  VENTURE  EQUITY  CONVERTED  TO  UMC  SHARES

We recorded our proportional ownership of the net income (loss) of USIC, a wafer
fabrication  joint  venture  located  in  Taiwan, as joint venture equity income
(loss)  prior  to  the conversion of USIC shares to UMC shares.  In fiscal 2000,
net  gains  were  generated as USIC began to realize volume wafer production and
shipments.  The  fiscal  1999 net loss was a result of the continued ramp up in
production  of  the  wafer  fabrication facility.  Net income in fiscal 1998 was
primarily  attributable  to foreign exchange gains as well as interest earned on
the  USIC  investment  portfolio.

As a result of the conversion of our equity position in USIC to shares of UMC in
January  2000, as discussed above, we will no longer record joint venture equity
income.

     INFLATION

To  date,  the  effects  of  inflation  upon our financial results have not been
significant.  We cannot assure, however, inflation will not affect us materially
in  the  future.


FINANCIAL  CONDITION,  LIQUIDITY  AND  CAPITAL  RESOURCES

Our  financial  condition as of March 31, 2000 continued to be strong with total
current  assets  exceeding total current liabilities by 4.3 times.  At March 31,
1999,  total current assets exceeded total current liabilities by 3.9 times.  We
have  used  a  combination  of  equity  and  debt  financing  and cash flow from
operations  to  support  on-going  business  activities, secure acquisitions and
investments  in  complementary  technologies,  obtain  facilities  and  capital
equipment,  and  finance  inventory  and accounts receivable.  Additionally, our
investment  in  UMC  is  available  for  future  sale,  subject to restrictions.

     CASH,  CASH  EQUIVALENTS  AND  SHORT-TERM  INVESTMENTS

Our  cash,  cash  equivalents  and  short-term  investments  increased by $205.3
million  in  fiscal  2000  as  we continued to generate positive cash flows from
operations.  Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments represented 25.9%
of  total  assets at March 31, 2000.  During fiscal 2000, we generated cash flow
of  $341.1  million  from  operating activities and $89.1 million from financing
activities,  offset  by  $398.2  million  of cash used for investing activities.
Investing activities during fiscal 2000 included $231.7 million in net purchases
of  investments,  $143.7 million expenditures for property, plant and equipment,
and  $22.8  million  for  the  purchase  of  Philips'  CPLD business.  Financing
activities  during  2000 included $84.3 million in proceeds from sales of common
stock  under  employee  option  and  stock purchase plans and $10.0 million from
sales  of  put  warrants  partially  offset  by  $5.3  million of treasury stock
acquisitions.

     RECEIVABLES

Receivables  increased  103%  from  $66.5  million  at the end of fiscal 1999 to
$135.0  million  at  the  end  of  fiscal  2000.   This  increase  was primarily
attributable  to  an  increased  level  of  shipments.

     INVENTORIES

Inventories increased 152% from $52.0 million at March 1999 to $131.3 million at
March  2000.  Inventory  levels  increased  during  fiscal 2000 due to increased
inventory  requirements  to  support  revenue  growth  and a planned build up of
inventory  for newer products.  Additionally, inventory levels, measured as days
of  sales, declined at distributors compared to the prior fiscal year end due to
the  timing of shipments.  We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory
in  various  product,  package  and  speed  configurations  to  meet anticipated
customer demand.  On the other hand, we also wish to minimize the handling costs
associated  with  maintaining  higher  inventory levels and to fully realize the
opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing
process  advancements.  We continually strive to balance these two objectives to
provide  excellent  customer  response  at  a  competitive  cost.

     PROPERTY,  PLANT  AND  EQUIPMENT

During  2000,  we invested $143.7 million in property and equipment, as compared
to $40.9 million in 1999.  Primary investments in fiscal 2000 were for corporate
building and land purchases, software development tools and semiconductor design
tools,  and  test  and  manufacturing equipment at each of our manufacturing and
test  locations.

     CURRENT  LIABILITIES

Current  liabilities  increased from $167.2 million at the end of fiscal 1999 to
$244.7  million  at  the  end  of  fiscal  2000.  The  increase  was  primarily
attributable  to  the  increase  in  accounts  payable  and  deferred  income on
shipments  to  distributors.  The  increase  in accounts payable was a result of
business  expansion  and  the  increase  in  deferred  income  on  shipments  to
distributors was due to increased inventory build up at distributors in response
to  higher  customer  demand.

     LONG-TERM  DEBT  AND  LINES  OF  CREDIT

In fiscal 1999, we  converted  in  full  $250.0  million  of  5 1/4% Convertible
Subordinated  Notes  due 2002 for a total of 19.6 million shares of common stock
at  a  price  of  $12.75  per  share.  We have credit facilities for up to $46.2
million  of  which  $6.2  million is intended to meet occasional working capital
requirements  for  our  Ireland  manufacturing  facility.  At March 31, 2000 and
1999, no  borrowings were outstanding under the lines of credit.  (See Note 5 of
Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.)

     STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

Stockholders'  equity  grew  by  202%  in  fiscal 2000 to $1,776.7 million.  The
increase  of  $897.3  million  was attributable to $652.5 million in net income,
$196.5 million related to the issuance of common stock from employee stock plans
and  the  tax benefit from stock options, $43.6 million from unrealized gains on
available-for-sale  securities  and  our  cumulative translation adjustment, and
$10.0  million  related to the sale of put warrants partially offset by the $5.3
million  used  to  acquire  treasury  stock.

     SUMMARY  OF  LIQUIDITY

We  anticipate  that existing sources of liquidity and cash flow from operations
will  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  our  cash  needs  for the foreseeable future.
However,  the  risk  factors  discussed  below  could  affect our cash positions
adversely.  We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain
additional  wafer  capacity,  procurement  of  additional  capital equipment and
facilities,  development  of  new  products,  and  potential  acquisitions  of
businesses,  products  or technologies that would complement our businesses.  We
may  use  available  cash  or  other  sources  of  funding  for  such  purposes.


FACTORS  AFFECTING  FUTURE  OPERATING  RESULTS
- ----------------------------------------------

The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized  by  rapid technological change,
intense  competition and cyclical market patterns.  Cyclical market patterns are
characterized  by  several  factors,  including:

  -     reduced  product  demand;
  -     limited  visibility  of  demand  for  products  beyond  three  months;
  -     accelerated  erosion  of  average  selling  prices;  and
  -     tight  capacity  availability.

Our results of operations are affected by several factors. These factors include
general  economic conditions, conditions specific to technology companies and to
the  semiconductor  industry  in particular, decreases in average selling prices
over the life of particular products and the timing of new product introductions
(by us, our competitors and others.)  In addition, our results of operations are
affected  by the ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product
in a timely manner, the timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies,
the ability to safeguard patents and intellectual property from competitors, the
impact  of  new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for some
products  in  the  face  of equally steep declines in demand for others, and the
inability  to  predict  the success of our customers' products in their markets.
Market demand for our products, particularly for those most recently introduced,
can  be  difficult  to  predict,  especially  in  light of customers' demands to
shorten  product lead times and minimize inventory levels.  Unpredictable market
demand  could lead to revenue volatility if we were unable to provide sufficient
quantities  of  specified  products.  In  addition,  any difficulty in achieving
targeted  wafer production yields could adversely affect our financial condition
and  results  of operations. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions
as  soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and
timely  reaction  to such events difficult.  Due to these and other factors, our
past  results,  including those described in this report, are much less reliable
predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and less
dynamic  industries.  Based  on  the  factors  noted  herein,  we may experience
substantial  period-to-period  fluctuations  in  future  operating  results.

Our  future  success depends in a large part on the continued service of our key
technical,  sales,  marketing  and  management  personnel  and on our ability to
continue  to attract and retain qualified employees.  Particularly important are
those  highly  skilled  design, process, software and test engineers involved in
the  manufacture  of  existing  products and the development of new products and
processes.  The  competition  for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key
employees  could  have  a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results  of  operations.

Sales  and  operations  outside  of  the  United  States subject us to the risks
associated  with  conducting  business  in  foreign  economic  and  regulatory
environments.  Our  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations  could be
adversely  affected  by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we
do  significant  business  and  by  changes  in  foreign currency exchange rates
affecting  those  countries.  For  example, we have sales and operations in Asia
Pacific  and  Japan.  Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected
revenues,  and  such  conditions  may  occur  in the future.  Customers may face
reduced  access  to  capital and exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect
their  ability  to  purchase  our products.  In addition, our ability to sell at
competitive  prices may be diminished.  Currency instability may increase credit
risks as the weak currencies may impair our customers' ability to repay existing
obligations.  Any  or  all of these factors could adversely affect our financial
condition  and  results  of  operations  in  the  near  future.

Our  financial  condition  and  results  of operations are becoming increasingly
dependent  on  the  global  economy.  Any  instability  in  worldwide  economic
environments  could  lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers.
Additional  risks  to us include government regulation of exports, imposition of
tariffs  and other potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual
property  rights  in  some  countries and generally longer receivable collection
periods.  Moreover,  our  financial condition and results of operations could be
affected  in  the  event of political conflicts in Taiwan where our main foundry
partner,  UMC,  is  located.

Our  business  is  also  subject  to the risks associated with the imposition of
legislation  and  regulations  relating  specifically to the import or export of
semiconductor  products.  We  cannot  predict  whether  quotas, duties, taxes or
other  charges  or  restrictions  will  be imposed by the United States or other
countries  upon  the  import  or  export  of  our products in the future or what
effect,  if  any, such actions would have on our financial condition and results
of  operations.

We  do not directly manufacture our silicon wafers. Presently, all of our wafers
are manufactured by our foundry partners in Taiwan by UMC and in Japan by Seiko.
We  depend  on  our  foundry  partners  to deliver reliable silicon wafers, with
acceptable  yields,  in  a  timely manner. If our foundry partners are unable to
produce  and  deliver  silicon  wafers  that  meet our specifications, including
acceptable  yields,  our  results  of  operation  could  be  adversely affected.

Our  foundry  partners  in  Taiwan  and  Japan  and  many  of  our operations in
California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent
past.  Should  there  be  a  major  earthquake in our operating locations in the
future,  our  operations,  including  our  manufacturing  activities,  may  be
disrupted.  This  type  of  disruption  could  result  in  our inability to ship
products  in  a  timely  manner,  thereby  materially  adversely  affecting  our
financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

The  securities of many high technology companies have historically been subject
to  extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may adversely affect the market
price  of  our  common  stock.

DEPENDENCE  UPON  INDEPENDENT  MANUFACTURERS  AND  SUBCONTRACTORS

We  do  not  manufacture the semiconductor wafers used for our products.  During
the  past  several  years,  most of our wafers have been manufactured by UMC and
Seiko,  with  recent wafers also manufactured by USIC until its merger into UMC.
We  are  dependent  upon  these  suppliers  and  others  to  produce wafers with
competitive  performance  and  cost  attributes  which  include transitioning to
advanced  manufacturing  process  technologies,  producing  wafers at acceptable
yields  and delivering them in a timely manner.  While the timeliness, yield and
quality  of  wafer  deliveries  have  met  our  requirements  to date, we cannot
guarantee  that  our  wafer  suppliers  will not experience future manufacturing
problems,  including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process
technologies.  Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any
reason,  including  natural  disasters such as fires, floods, or earthquakes, as
well  as  disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas
or  water  could  cause  delays  in  shipments of our products, and could have a
material  adverse effect on our results of operations.  We are also dependent on
subcontractors  to  provide  semiconductor  assembly  services.  Any  prolonged
inability to obtain wafers or assembly services with competitive performance and
cost  attributes,  adequate yields or timely delivery, or any other circumstance
that  would  require  us  to  seek  alternative  sources  of supply, could delay
shipments  and  have  a  material  adverse effect on our financial condition and
results  of  operations.

Our growth will depend in large part upon our ability to obtain additional wafer
fabrication  capacity  and  assembly  services  from  suppliers  that  are  cost
competitive.  We  consider  various  alternatives  in order to secure additional
wafer  capacity.  These  alternatives  include,  without  limitation,  equity
investments  in,  or  loans,  deposits,  or  other  financial  commitments  to
independent  wafer  manufacturers.  We  also consider the use of contracts which
commit  us to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods.  We
are  currently able to obtain wafers from existing suppliers in a timely manner.
However, at times we have been unable, and may in the future be unable, to fully
satisfy customer demand because of production constraints, including the ability
of  suppliers  and  subcontractors  to provide materials and services to satisfy
customer  delivery  dates,  as  well  as  our  ability  to  process products for
shipment.  In addition, a significant increase in general industry demand or any
interruption of supply could reduce our supply of wafers or increase our cost of
such wafers.  These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.

DEPENDENCE  ON  NEW  PRODUCTS

Our  success  depends  in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new
products  which  address  customer  requirements  and compete effectively on the
basis  of  price,  density,  functionality  and performance.  The success of new
product  introductions  is  dependent  upon  several  factors,  including:

  -     timely  completion  of  new  product  designs;
  -     ability  to  utilize  advanced  manufacturing  process  technologies;
  -     achieving  acceptable  yields;
  -     availability  of  supporting  software  design  tools;
  -     utilization  of  predefined  cores  of  logic;
  -     market  acceptance;  and
  -     successful  deployment  of  systems  by  our  customers.

We cannot assure that our product development efforts will be successful or that
our  new  products  will  achieve  market  acceptance.  Revenues relating to our
mature  products are expected to decline in the future.  As a result, we will be
increasingly  dependent  on revenues derived from newer products along with cost
reductions  on  current  products.  We  rely  primarily  on  obtaining  yield
improvements  and  corresponding  cost reductions in the manufacture of existing
products and on introducing new products which incorporate advanced features and
other  price/performance  factors  that  enable  us  to  increase revenues while
maintaining consistent margins.  To the extent that such cost reductions and new
product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our
products  do  not  achieve  market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our
financial  condition  and  results  of  operations could be materially adversely
affected.

COMPETITION

See  "competition"  discussed  in  Item  1.

INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY

We  rely  upon  patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law to protect our
intellectual  property.  We cannot assure that such intellectual property rights
can  be  successfully  asserted  in  the  future  or  will  not  be invalidated,
circumvented  or  challenged.  From  time  to time, third parties, including our
competitors,  have  asserted  patent,  copyright and other intellectual property
rights  to  technologies  that are important to us.  We cannot assure that third
parties  will  not  assert  infringement  claims  against us in the future, that
assertions  by  third  parties  will  not result in costly litigation or that we
would  prevail  in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed
patents  from  third  parties  on  commercially  reasonable  terms.  Litigation,
regardless  of  its  outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of
our  resources.  Any  infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us
could  materially  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition  and  results of
operations.  (See  Part II - Other Information, Item 1 - Legal Proceedings for a
discussion  of  litigation  between  Xilinx  and  Altera  Corporation.)

EURO  CURRENCY

Beginning  in  1999, 11 member countries of the European Union established fixed
conversion  rates  between  their  existing sovereign currencies and adopted the
Euro as their common legal currency.  During the three-year transition, the Euro
will  be  available  for non-cash transactions and legacy currencies will remain
legal  tender.  We  are  continuing to assess the Euro's impact on our business.
We are reviewing the ability of our accounting and information systems to handle
the  conversion,  the ability of foreign banks to report on dual currencies, the
legal  and  contractual  implications  of  agreements,  as well as reviewing our
pricing  strategies.  We  expect  that  any  additional  modifications  to  our
operations  and  systems  will be completed on a timely basis and do not believe
the  conversion will have a material adverse impact on our operations.  However,
we  cannot  assure  that  we will be able to successfully modify all systems and
contracts  to  comply  with  Euro  requirements.

LITIGATION

We  are  currently  engaged in several legal matters.  (See Legal Proceedings in
Item  3  and  Note  12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.)


ITEM  7A.    MARKET  RATE  RISKS

Interest Rate Risk - Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our
investment  portfolio.  (See  Note  5  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.)  Our  primary  aim  with  our  investment  portfolio  is  to invest
available  cash  while  preserving  principal  and meeting liquidity needs.  The
portfolio  includes  tax-advantaged municipal bonds, tax-advantaged auction rate
preferred  municipal  bonds, commercial paper, and U.S. Treasury securities.  In
accordance  with  our  investment  policy, we place investments with high credit
quality  issuers  and  limit  the  amount  of credit exposure to any one issuer.
These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if
market  interest  rates increase.  A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates
would  result in a $2.8 million and $1.5 million (less than 0.3% for both years)
decrease in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities as of the end of
fiscal  2000  and 1999, respectively.  In addition, we have historically had the
ability and have the intent to hold our securities until maturity and therefore,
do  not  expect to recognize an adverse impact on income or cash flows, although
there  can  be  no  assurance  of  this.

Foreign  currency  risk  -  We use forward currency exchange contracts to reduce
financial  market risks.  Our sales to Japanese customers are denominated in yen
while  our  purchases  of  processed  silicon wafers from Japanese foundries are
primarily  denominated  in  U.S.  dollars.  Gains and losses on foreign currency
forward  contracts  that  are  designated and effective as hedges of anticipated
transactions,  for  which  a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and
included  in the basis of the transaction in the same period that the underlying
transactions  are  settled.  Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the
above  criteria  would  be  recognized  in  income in the current period.  A 15%
adverse  change  in  yen  exchange  rates,  based  on  historical  average  rate
fluctuations,  would have had approximately a 1.0% adverse impact on revenue for
fiscal  years  2000, 1999 and 1998.  In fiscal 2000, we have also begun to share
the  yen  exchange  rate  risk  with some of our Japanese customers through risk
sharing  agreements.  As we will continue to have a net yen exposure in the near
future, we will continue to mitigate the exposure through yen hedging contracts.
However,  no  currency  forward contracts were outstanding as of March 31, 2000.

Our  investments  in several subsidiaries and in the UMC securities are recorded
in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  As these foreign currency denominated
investments  are translated at each month end during consolidation, fluctuations
of  exchange  rates between the foreign currency and the U.S. dollar increase or
decrease the value of those investments.  If permanent changes occur in exchange
rates  after  an  investment  is  made,  the investment's value will increase or
decrease  accordingly.  These  fluctuations  are  recorded  within stockholders'
equity  as  a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.  Also, as our
subsidiaries  maintain  investments  denominated in other than local currencies,
exchange  rate  fluctuations  will  occur.


ITEM  8.     FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA














                                  XILINX, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE  1.  NATURE  OF  OPERATIONS

Xilinx  designs,  develops  and  markets  complete programmable logic solutions,
including advanced integrated circuits, software design tools, predefined system
functions delivered as cores of logic and field engineering support.  The wafers
used  to  manufacture  our  products  are  obtained  from  independent  wafer
manufacturers  located  in  Taiwan  and  Japan.  We  are  dependent  upon  these
manufacturers  to  produce  and  deliver  wafers on a timely basis.  We are also
dependent  on  subcontractors,  located  in  the Asia Pacific region, to provide
semiconductor  assembly services.  Xilinx is a global company with manufacturing
and  test  facilities  in  the  United  States  and  Ireland  and  sales offices
throughout  the  world.  We  derive approximately one-third of our revenues from
international  sales,  primarily  in  Europe  and  Japan.

NOTE  2.  SUMMARY  OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND CONCENTRATIONS OF RISK

     Basis  of  presentation

The  accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  include  the accounts of
Xilinx  and  our wholly owned subsidiaries after elimination of all intercompany
transactions.  Our  fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest March 31.  For ease
of  presentation,  March  31  has  been  utilized as the fiscal year-end for all
financial statement captions.   Fiscal 2000 and 1998 were 52-week years ended on
April  1, 2000 and March 28, 1998, respectively.  Fiscal 1999 was a 53-week year
ended  on  April  3,  1999.

Certain  amounts  from  the prior years have been reclassified to conform to the
current  year  presentation.

     Cash  equivalents  and  investments

Cash  and cash equivalents consist of cash on deposit with banks and investments
in  money  market instruments and U.S. Treasury notes with minimal interest rate
risk  and  original  maturities  of  90  days or less when acquired.  Short-term
investments  consist  of  tax-advantaged  municipal bonds, commercial papers and
tax-advantaged  auction  rate  preferred municipal bonds with maturities greater
than  90  days  but  less than one year from the balance sheet date.  Restricted
investments  consisted of certificates of deposit held as collateral relating to
leases  for  our  facilities.  In  December  1999,  we  exercised  our option to
purchase  three  buildings previously leased at our San Jose corporate facility.
The  restricted  investment of $34.4 million was used to purchase the buildings.
(See  Note  6  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.)  Long-term
investments  consist  of  U.S.  Treasury  notes,  government  agency  bonds  and
tax-advantaged  municipal  bonds  with  maturities greater than one year, unless
funds  are  specifically identified for current operations.  We invest our cash,
cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments through various banks and
investment  banking  institutions.  This  diversification  of risk is consistent
with  our  policy  to  maintain  liquidity  and  ensure  the  collectibility  of
principal.

Management  classifies  investments as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity at
the  time  of  purchase  and re-evaluates such designation at each balance sheet
date,  although  classification  is  not  generally  changed.  Securities  are
classified  as held-to-maturity when we have the positive intent and the ability
to  hold the securities until maturity.  Held-to-maturity securities are carried
at  cost  adjusted  for  amortization  of premiums and accretion of discounts to
maturity.  Such  amortization,  as  well  as  any interest on the securities, is
included  in interest income.  Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair
value  with  the unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, included as a component
of  accumulated  other  comprehensive  income in stockholders' equity.  Realized
gains  and  losses  and  declines  in value judged to be other-than-temporary on
available-for-sale securities are included in other income.  The fair values for
marketable  debt  and  equity securities are based on quoted market prices.  The
cost  of  securities  matured  or  sold  is based on the specific identification
method.

     Inventories

Inventories  are  stated  at  the  lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market
(estimated net realizable value) and are comprised of the following at March 31,
2000  and  1999:




     Advances  for  wafer  purchases

In  fiscal  1997,  we  signed  an  agreement  with  Seiko Epson, a primary wafer
supplier.  This agreement was amended in fiscal 1998 providing for an advance to
Seiko Epson of $150.0 million.  In conjunction with the agreement, $60.0 million
was paid in fiscal 1997 and an additional $90.0 million was paid in fiscal 1998.
Repayment  of  this advance is made in the form of wafer deliveries, which began
during  the  fourth  quarter of fiscal 1998.  The advance payment provision also
provides  for  interest  to  be  paid to us in the form of free wafers.  Related
interest  income  has  been  accrued  and  the accrued balance is offset as free
wafers are received.  Through March 31, 2000, we have received $134.3 million in
wafers  against  this  advance,  of  which  $6.8 million was in the form of free
wafers.  Specific  wafer  pricing is in U.S. dollars and is based upon foundries
with  comparable  technology, products and volume, and prices quoted by specific
research  firms  for  foundry  prices  for  similar  wafers.

     Property,  Plant  and  Equipment

Property,  plant  and  equipment are stated at cost.  Depreciation for financial
reporting purposes is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful  lives  of  the  assets  of three to five years for machinery, equipment,
furniture  and  fixtures  and  up  to  thirty years for buildings.  Depreciation
expenses  totaled $33.3 million, $27.5 million and $28.0 million for fiscal year
2000,  1999,  and  1998,  respectively.

     Revenue  Recognition

We  recognize  revenue from product sales upon transfer of title to OEMs and end
users.  Reserves  for  sales  returns and allowances are recorded at the time of
shipment.  As  further  explained  in  Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements,  commencing in fiscal 1999, revenue on shipments to all distributors
is  deferred until products are sold by the distributors to end users.  Prior to
fiscal  1999,  revenue  on shipments to domestic distributors was deferred until
resale  to  end  users  because  arrangements  with  these distributors included
returns and price protection privileges which could not be reasonably estimated.
Revenue  on  all  shipments  to  international  distributors was recognized upon
shipment  to the distributor, with appropriate provision of reserves for returns
and  allowances.

     Foreign  currency  translation

The  U.S.  dollar  is  the  functional  currency  for  our Ireland manufacturing
facility.  Assets  and  liabilities  that  are not denominated in the functional
currency are remeasured into U.S. dollars, and the resulting gains or losses are
included  in  "Interest income and other".  The functional currency is the local
currency for each of our other foreign subsidiaries.  Assets and liabilities are
translated  at  month-end  exchange  rates,  and  statements  of  operations are
translated  at  the  average  exchange rates during the year.  Exchange gains or
losses  arising  from  translation  of  foreign  currency denominated assets and
liabilities  are  included  as  a  component  of accumulated other comprehensive
income  in  stockholders'  equity.

     Derivative  financial  instruments

As  part  of  our  ongoing  asset  and  liability  management  activities,  we
periodically  enter  into  certain  derivative  financial arrangements to reduce
financial  market  risks.  These instruments are used to hedge foreign currency,
equity  and interest rate market exposures of underlying assets and liabilities.
We  do  not  enter  into  derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

We  use  forward  currency  exchange contracts to reduce financial market risks.
Our  sales  to  Japanese customers are denominated in yen while our purchases of
processed  silicon  wafers  from Japanese foundries are primarily denominated in
U.S.  dollars.  Gains  and losses on foreign currency forward contracts that are
designated and effective as hedges of anticipated transactions, for which a firm
commitment  has  been  attained,  are deferred and  included in the basis of the
transaction  in  the  same  period that the underlying transactions are settled.
Gains  and  losses  on  any  instruments not meeting the above criteria would be
recognized in income in the current period.   No currency forward contracts were
outstanding  as  of  March  31,  2000.

In fiscal 1999, our two and a half year interest rate swap agreement terminated.
The  interest rate swap agreement was in place in order to mitigate the interest
rate  risks whereby the long-term debt fixed interest rate liability was matched
against  our  short-term  variable interest rate assets.  The liability interest
rate  swap  agreement  involved the exchange of fixed interest rate payments for
variable  interest  rate  payments  over  the  life  of the agreement without an
exchange of the notional amount.  The differential to be paid or received as the
variable  interest  rate changes was accrued and recognized as interest expense.
The  related  amounts payable or receivable from the third party was included in
other  liabilities or assets.   For the period of time the swap was outstanding,
the  fair  value of the swap agreement and changes in the fair value as a result
of  changes in market interest rates were not material.  (See Note 5 of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements.)

     Employee  stock  plans

We  account for our stock option and employee stock purchase plans in accordance
with  provisions  of  the Accounting Principles Board's Opinion No. 25 (APB 25),
"Accounting  for Stock Issued to Employees."  In addition, we disclose pro forma
information  related  to  our  stock  plans  according  to  Financial Accounting
Standards  Board's  Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation"
(FASB  123).  (See  Note  9  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial Statements.)

     Use  of  estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally  accepted  in  United States requires management to make estimates and
assumptions  that  affect  the  reported  amounts  of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the  reported  amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Such estimates relate to the useful lives of fixed assets and intangible assets,
allowances  for  doubtful  accounts,  pricing  adjustments,  customer  returns,
international  distributor  sell-through,  potential  reserves  relating  to
litigation  matters  as  well as other accruals or reserves.  Actual results may
differ  from  those  estimates,  and  such  differences  may  be material to the
financial  statements.

     New  Accounting  Pronouncements

In  June  1998,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133, (FASB 133), "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities,"  which requires adoption in fiscal years
beginning  after  June  15,  2000  while  earlier  adoption  is permitted at the
beginning  of any fiscal quarter.  We are required to adopt by fiscal 2002.  The
effect of adopting the Standard is currently being evaluated but is not expected
to have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial
position.  FASB  133 will require us to recognize all derivatives on the balance
sheet  at  fair value.  Derivatives that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair
value  through income.  If the derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of
the  hedge,  changes  in  the  fair  value  of derivatives will either be offset
against  the  change  in  fair  value of the hedged assets, liabilities, or firm
commitments  through  earnings  or recognized in accumulated other comprehensive
income  until  the  hedged  item  is  recognized  in  earnings.  The ineffective
portion,  if  any,  of  a  derivative's change in fair value will be immediately
recognized  in  earnings.

In  December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued SEC Staff
Accounting  Bulletin  No.  101  (SAB  101),  "Revenue  Recognition  in Financial
Statements."  SAB  101  summarizes  certain  of  the  SEC's  views  in  applying
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  to revenue recognition in financial
statements.  We  have  completed  our  review  of  SAB  101 and believe that our
current  revenue  recognition policy is consistent with the guidance of SAB 101.

     Concentrations  of  credit  risk

We attempt to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in our trade receivables
with respect to the high-technology industry with our credit evaluation process,
relatively  short  collection terms, distributor agreements, sales among various
end-user applications throughout the high-technology market and the geographical
dispersion  of  sales.  We  generally  do  not  require  collateral.  Bad  debt
write-offs  have  been  insignificant  for  all  years  presented.

     Concentration  of  other  risks

The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized  by  rapid technological change,
intense  competitive  pressure  and  cyclical  market  patterns.  Our results of
operations are affected by a wide variety of factors, including general economic
conditions,  conditions  specifically  relating  to technology companies and the
semiconductor industry, decreases in average selling prices over the life of any
particular  product,  the  timing  of  new  product  introductions  (by  us, our
competitors  and  others), the ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a
given product in a timely manner, the timely implementation of new manufacturing
process technologies, the ability to safeguard patents and intellectual property
from  competitors,  and  the  impact  of  new  technologies  resulting  in rapid
escalation  of  demand for some products in the face of equally steep decline in
demand  for  others.  Based  on  the  factors  noted  herein,  we may experience
substantial  period-to-period  fluctuations  in  future  operating  results.

NOTE  3.  ACCOUNTING  CHANGE  -  DEFERRED  REVENUE  RECOGNITION  ON  SALES  TO
INTERNATIONAL  DISTRIBUTORS

During  the  fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, we changed our accounting method for
recognizing  revenue on all shipments to international distributors.  The change
was  made  retroactive  to  the  beginning  of fiscal 1999.  While we previously
deferred  revenue  on shipments to domestic distributors until the products were
sold  to  the  end  user,  we  recognized revenue upon shipment to international
distributors, net of appropriate reserves for returns and allowances.  Following
the  accounting  change,  revenue  recognition  on  shipments  to  distributors
worldwide  is  deferred  until  the  products  are sold to the end customer.  We
believe  that deferral of revenue on shipments to distributors until the product
is  shipped  by  the  distributor  to  an  end  customer  is  a  more meaningful
measurement  of  results of operations as it better conforms to the substance of
the  transaction  considering  the  changing  business  environment  in  the
international  marketplace,  and  is  consistent  with  industry  practice.  The
cumulative  effect  of  the  change  in  accounting method for prior years was a
charge  of $26.6 million, net of $12.0 million in taxes, or $0.09 net income per
diluted  share.

NOTE  4.  JOINT  VENTURE

Xilinx, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and other parties entered into
a  joint  venture  to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as
United  Silicon  Inc. (USIC).  We had a 20% equity ownership in USIC and had the
right  to  receive  up  to  31.25% of the wafer capacity from this facility.  We
accounted  for  this  investment  using  the  equity method of accounting with a
one-month  lag in recording our share of results for the entity.  In fiscal 2000
net  gains  were generated as USIC entered volume wafer production and shipment,
while  the  fiscal  1999  net  loss  was  a  result  of the continued ramp up in
production  of  the  wafer  fabrication  facility.  The  fiscal  1998 net income
resulted  primarily  from  favorable  foreign currency exchange gains as well as
interest  earned on the USIC investment portfolio. Through the second quarter of
fiscal  1998,  equity income was immaterial and remained classified in "Interest
income  and  other."

In  January  2000,  our equity position in USIC was converted into shares of UMC
which  are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. We recognized a gain of
$674.7  million  ($398.1 million net of taxes) in our fiscal 2000 fourth quarter
as  a  result  of  the  merger  of  USIC  with  UMC.  The  gain  represents  the
appreciation  of  our  investment  in  USIC.  As a result of this merger, we own
approximately  222  million  shares  of  UMC  common  stock,  which  represent
approximately 2% of the combined UMC Group.  We retain equivalent wafer capacity
rights  in  UMC  as  we  previously  had  in USIC, as long as we retain a
percentage of our  shares  of UMC common stock.  If our holdings fall below this
level,  our  wafer capacity rights would be decreased prorated by the UMC shares
we  hold.

Due  to  restrictions imposed by UMC and the Taiwan Stock Exchange, the majority
of  our  UMC  shares  may  not  be  sold  until  July  2000.  These  regulatory
restrictions will gradually expire between July 2000 and January 2004.  At March
31,  2000,  the restricted portion of our UMC investment totaled $396.5 million.

NOTE  5.  FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS

     Cash  and  Investments

The  following  is  a  summary  of  available-for-sale  securities:



At  March 31, 1999, held to maturity investments totaled $34.4 million held in a
restricted  certificate of deposit for which cost approximated market value.  In
fiscal 2000, we sold the held-to-maturity investment of $34.4 million, resulting
in  no  gain  or  loss,  in  order  to  purchase three buildings at our San Jose
corporate  facility.  No investments were held to maturity as of March 31, 2000.

     Derivatives

In  fiscal  2000,  we utilized forward currency contracts to protect against the
net  yen  exposure  created  when  we  began  purchasing most of our wafers from
Japanese  suppliers  in U.S. dollars yet continued to invoice Japanese customers
in  yen.  Realized  losses  of  $ 0.5 million in fiscal 2000 and $2.3 million in
fiscal  1999  were  offset  against  revenue  when  there was a firm commitment,
otherwise they were included in "Interest income and other. "  At March 31, 2000
and 1999, no commitments under foreign currency forward or option contracts were
outstanding.

In  fiscal  1997,  we  entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a third
party in order to reduce risk related to movements in interest rates.  Under the
agreement,  we effectively converted the fixed rate interest payments related to
$125.0  million  of  our  convertible  long-term  debt to variable rate interest
payments  without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.  We received
fixed  interest  rate  payments  (equal to 5.935%) from the third party and were
obligated  to  make variable rate payments (equal to the three month Libor rate)
to  the  third  party  during  the  term  of the agreement.  In fiscal 1999, the
interest  rate  swap  agreement terminated, resulting in an immaterial gain. For
the  period  of  time  the  swap  was  outstanding,  the  fair value of the swap
agreement  and  changes  in  the  fair  value  as  a result of changes in market
interest  rates  were  not  material.

In  fiscal  1997, we entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize
the  impact of future exchange fluctuations on the U.S. dollar cost of investing
in  the  USIC joint venture.  The contracts required us to exchange U.S. dollars
for  New  Taiwan  dollars  and  matured  within  one  year.  The  contracts were
accounted  for  as  a  hedge  of  an  identifiable  foreign currency commitment.

     Lines  of  Credit

We  have  $40  million  available  under a syndicated bank revolving credit line
agreement,  which  expires in March 2001.  Under this agreement, borrowings bear
interest  at  the  prime  rate or 0.625% over the Libor rate.  Additionally, our
Ireland  manufacturing facility has an additional $6.2 million available under a
multicurrency  credit  line,  which  expires  in  November  2000.  Under  this
agreement,  borrowings  bear interest at the bank's prime rate or 0.75% over the
Euribor  rate.  At  March  31,  2000,  no  borrowings were outstanding under any
credit lines.  We are in full compliance with the agreement's required covenants
and  financial  ratios.  The  agreements  prohibit the payment of cash dividends
without  prior  bank  approval.

In fiscal 1999, we converted  in  full  $250.0  million  of  5 1/4 % Convertible
Subordinated  Notes  due 2002 for a total of 19.6 million shares of common stock
at  a  price  of  $12.75  per  share.

NOTE  6.  COMMITMENTS

We  lease some of our manufacturing and office facilities under operating leases
that  expire  at  various  dates  through  December  2014.  Lease agreements for
certain corporate facilities contain payment provisions, which allow for changes
in  rental  amounts  based  upon  interest rate changes.  The approximate future
minimum  lease  payments  under  operating  leases  are  as  follows:

           Years ended March 31,     (In thousands)
                                     --------------
                             2001     $ 2,671
                             2002       2,526
                             2003       2,294
                             2004       1,511
                             2005       1,302
                             Thereafter 1,590
                                      -------
                                      $11,894
                                      =======

Rent  expense  was  approximately $7.3 million for fiscal 2000, and $4.5 million
each  for  fiscal  years  1999  and 1998.   The increased rent expense is due to
expansion  at  our  corporate  facility.

During  fiscal  1998, we entered into an agreement for a facility to be built on
property  adjacent  to  our  corporate  facilities which was completed in fiscal
2000.  Upon  signing  the  lease agreement, we paid the lessor $31.3 million for
prepaid  rent  and  an  option  to  purchase  the facility.  The rent prepayment
covered  one  year  and  was  discounted to its present value.  We exercised the
lease agreement's purchase option in fiscal 2000 and the prepaid purchase option
was  considered  payment  in  full.

In  December  1999,  we  exercised  another  option  to purchase three buildings
previously leased at our San Jose corporate facility.  The restricted investment
of  $34.4  million  related  to  certain collateral requirements on the building
leases  was  used  to  purchase  the  three  buildings.

NOTE  7.  NET  INCOME  PER  SHARE

Basic  net  income  per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average  number  of  common  shares outstanding during the period.  In computing
diluted  net income per share, the average stock price for the period is used in
determining  the  number  of shares assumed to be purchased from the exercise of
stock  options.  Diluted  earnings  per  share  is  computed  using the weighted
average  common  and  dilutive  common  equivalent  shares  outstanding.

The computation of basic net income per share for all years presented is derived
from  the  information  on  the  face  of the income statement, and there are no
reconciling  items  in either the numerator or denominator.  Additionally, there
are no reconciling items in the numerator used to compute diluted net income per
share.  The  total  shares used in the denominator of the diluted net income per
share  calculation  includes  26.8  million,  15.8  million  and  25.1  million
incremental  common  shares attributable to outstanding options for fiscal years
2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively.

Before the long-term debt was converted to equity in the amount of approximately
19.6  million  shares,  they were not included in the calculation of diluted net
income  per share, as their inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive effect for
all  periods  presented.  Outstanding  options  to  purchase  approximately  0.3
million, 9.6 million and 7.4 million shares, for the fiscal years 2000, 1999 and
1998,  respectively, under the Company's Stock Option Plans were not included in
the  treasury  stock calculation to derive diluted net income per share as their
inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive effect.  In addition, the put warrants
disclosed  in  Note 9 did not have any impact on basic or diluted net income per
share  in  the  year  ended  March 31, 2000 as their inclusion would have had an
anti-dilutive  effect.

NOTE  8.  COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME

We  adopted  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 130 (FASB 130),
"Reporting  Comprehensive Income" in the first quarter of fiscal 1999.  FASB 130
established  standards  for the reporting and disclosure of comprehensive income
and  its  components;  however, the disclosure has no impact on our consolidated
results  of  operations, financial position or cash flows.  Comprehensive income
is  defined  as the change in equity of a company during a period resulting from
certain  transactions and other events and circumstances, excluding transactions
resulting  from  investments  by  owners  and  distributions  to  owners.  The
difference  between  net  income  and  comprehensive  income  for Xilinx is from
foreign  currency  translation adjustments and unrealized gains or losses on our
available-for-sale  securities.

The  components of comprehensive income for the fiscal years 2000, 1999 and 1998
are  as  follows:




The  components  of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the fiscal
years  2000,  1999,  and  1998  are  as  follows:


NOTE  9.  STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

In  December  1999,  Xilinx  shareholders  voted  to approve an amendment to the
Company's  Certificate  of  Incorporation  to  increase the number of authorized
shares  from  300  million  to  500  million.  The  Company's  Certificate  of
Incorporation  also  provides  for  2  million  shares of undesignated preferred
stock.

     Treasury  stock  and  put  options

We  authorized  a stock buyback program in December 1997 whereby up to 8 million
shares  of  our  common stock could be purchased in the open market from time to
time as market and business conditions warranted.  This program was completed in
November  1998.  In  April  and  September  1998,  additional  stock  repurchase
programs  were  authorized to each buyback up to 12 million shares of our common
stock.  We  have  reissued  treasury  shares repurchased in response to Employee
Stock  Option  exercises and Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan requirements
as  well  as  in  conjunction  with  our redemption of convertible debt.  During
fiscal  2000  and  1999,  we repurchased a total of 0.2 million and 11.2 million
shares  of  common  stock for $5.3 million and $113.8 million, respectively.  In
fiscal  2000  and  1999,  0.5  million  and  16.8  million shares were reissued,
respectively.  We were not holding any treasury shares as of March 31, 2000.  In
conjunction  with  the stock repurchase program, during fiscal 2000, we sold put
warrants  that  entitle  the  holder  of each warrant to sell to us, by physical
delivery,  one  share  of common stock at a specified price, ranging from $33 to
$42  per  share.  The  outstanding  put  warrants  will  expire at various dates
through  October  2000.  As  of  March  31,  2000, we have 1.2 million shares of
outstanding  put  warrants.

     Stock  split

On  October  18,  1999,  our  Board of Directors approved a 2 for 1 split of our
Common  Stock,  which  was  effected  in  the form of a 100% stock dividend.  On
December  27,  1999, shareholders of record as of December 17, 1999 received one
additional  share  of  Common  Stock  for  every  share held.  Shares, per share
amounts,  common  stock  at  par value, and additional paid-in capital have been
restated  to  reflect  the  stock  split  for  all  periods  presented.

     Stockholder  Rights  Plan

In  October  1991,  we adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a dividend
distribution of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding share of
common  stock.  The  rights  become  exercisable  based  upon  the occurrence of
certain  conditions  including acquisitions of Company stock, tender or exchange
offers  and  certain  business  combination transactions of the Company.  In the
event  one  of  the  conditions is triggered, each right entitles the registered
holder  to  purchase  a  number  of shares of preferred stock of the Company or,
under  limited circumstances, of the acquirer.  The rights are redeemable at the
Company's  option,  under  certain  conditions, for $.01 per right and expire on
October  4,  2001.

     Employee  Stock  Option  Plans

Under  existing  stock  option plans (Option Plans), options reserved for future
issuance  to employees and directors of the Company total 83.9 million shares as
of  March  31,  2000.  Options  to purchase shares of our common stock under the
Option  Plans  are  granted at 100% of the fair market value of the stock on the
date  of grant.  Options granted to date expire ten years from date of grant and
vest  at  varying  rates  over  four  or  five  years.

A  summary of our Option Plans activity, and related information are as follows:




The following information relates to options outstanding and exercisable under
the Option Plan at March 31, 2000:



At  March 31, 1999, 31.9 million options were exercisable at an average price of
$6.42.

     Employee  Qualified  Stock  Purchase  Plan

Under  our  1990  Employee  Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Stock Purchase Plan),
qualified  employees can elect to have up to 15 percent of their annual earnings
withheld, up to a maximum of $21,250, to purchase our common stock at the end of
six-month  enrollment  periods.  The  purchase  price of the stock is 85% of the
lower  of  the  fair  market  value  at  the  beginning of the twenty-four month
offering  period  or  at  the end of each six-month purchase period.  Almost all
employees  are  eligible  to  participate.  Under this plan, 2.3 million and 1.6
million  shares  were issued during 2000 and 1999, respectively, and 9.4 million
shares  were  available  for  issuance  at  March  31,  2000.

     Stock-Based  Compensation

As  permitted  under  FASB  Statement  No.  123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based
Compensation"  (FASB  123),  we  have  elected  to continue to follow Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB
25)  and  related  Interpretations  in  accounting for our stock-based awards to
employees.  Under  APB  25,  the  Company  generally  recognizes no compensation
expense  with  respect  to  such  awards.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
FASB  123 and has been determined as if we had accounted for awards to employees
under  the  fair  value method of FASB 123.  The fair value of stock options and
stock  purchase  plan  rights under the Option Plans and Stock Purchase Plan was
estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The
Black-Scholes  model  was  originally  developed  for use in estimating the fair
value  of traded options and requires the input of highly subjective assumptions
including expected stock price volatility.  Our stock options and stock purchase
plan  rights  have  characteristics significantly different from those of traded
options,  and  changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect
the  fair  value  estimate.  The  fair value of stock options and stock purchase
plan  rights  granted  in fiscal years 2000, 1999 and 1998 were estimated at the
date  of grant assuming no expected dividends and the following weighted average
assumptions.



For  purposes  of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of stock-based
awards  is  amortized  against pro forma net income over the stock-based awards'
vesting  period. Had we accounted for stock-based awards to employees under FASB
123,  our  net  income  would have been $560.3 million, $65.2 million, and $95.6
million in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.  Basic net income per share would
have  been  $1.73, $0.22, and $0.32 in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively, while
diluted  net  income  per  share  would  have  been  $1.60,  $0.21,  and  $0.31,
respectively.

Calculated  under FASB 123, the weighted-average fair value of the stock options
granted  during  2000,  1999,  and  1998 was $18.87, $6.90, and $5.34 per share,
respectively.  The  weighted-average fair value of stock purchase rights granted
under  the  Stock  Purchase Plan during 2000, 1999, and 1998 were $18.19, $4.98,
and  $3.63  per  share,  respectively.

NOTE  10.  INCOME  TAXES



The tax benefits associated with the disqualifying dispositions of stock options
or employee stock purchase plan shares reduced taxes currently payable by $112.1
million,  $34.9  million,  and  $16.1  million  for fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998,
respectively.  Such  benefits  are  credited  to additional paid-in capital when
realized.  Pretax  income  from  foreign  operations  was  $106.4 million, $61.2
million,  and $55.5 million for fiscal years 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.
Unremitted  foreign  earnings  that  are  considered  to be permanently invested
outside  the  United  States  and on which no deferred taxes have been provided,
accumulated  to approximately $111.7 million as of March 31, 2000.  The residual
U.S.  tax liability, if such amounts were remitted, would be approximately $27.9
million.

The provision for income taxes reconciles to the amount obtained by applying the
Federal  statutory  income  tax  rate  to  income  before provision for taxes as
follows:




The  major  components  of  deferred  tax  assets and liabilities consist of the
following:



NOTE  11.  SEGMENT  INFORMATION

We  operate  and track our results in one operating segment.  We design, develop
and  market  programmable  logic  semiconductor devices and the related software
design  tools.

Enterprise wide information is provided in accordance with FASB 131.  Geographic
revenue  information  for  the fiscal years 2000, 1999, and 1998 is based on the
shipment  location.  Long-lived  assets include property, plant and equipment as
well  as  intangible  assets including developed technology, assembled workforce
and  goodwill.  Property,  plant  and  equipment  information  is  based  on the
physical  location  of  the  asset  at  the  end  of  each fiscal year while the
intangible  assets  are  based  on  the  location  of  the  owning  entity.

Net  revenues  from unaffiliated customers by geographic region were as follows:




Net  long-lived  assets  by  country  were  as  follows:



No  end customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues in 2000, 1999, or 1998.
Approximately  27%,  20%  and  14%  of  net revenues were recognized through our
largest  domestic  distributor  in 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.  A second
domestic  distributor  accounted  for  approximately  24%,  17%  and  11% of net
revenues  in  fiscal  2000,  1999  and  1998,  respectively.

NOTE  12.  LITIGATION

On June 7, 1993, we filed suit against Altera Corporation (Altera) in the United
States  District  Court for the Northern District of California for infringement
of  certain  of  our  patents.  Subsequently,  Altera filed suit against Xilinx,
alleging that certain of our products infringe certain Altera patents.  Fact and
expert  discovery  have  been  completed  in  both  cases,  which  have  been
consolidated.  Both  Altera  and Xilinx filed motions with the Court for summary
judgement  with respect to certain of the issues pending in the litigation.   In
October  1999,  the  Court  ruled  on all but one of the motions. As a result of
those  rulings,  Altera is left with one claim against Xilinx, which remains the
subject  of  a  Company  motion for summary judgment. A ruling on this motion is
pending. The Court's rulings also dismissed certain claims by us, leaving intact
claims of infringement under two Company patents by Altera. The remaining claims
against  Altera  will be decided at a trial scheduled to begin in October, 2000.
If  the remaining claim against Xilinx survives the motion for summary judgment,
it  will be decided at a trial, which is currently scheduled to commence on June
19,  2000.

On April 20, 1995, Altera filed an additional suit against Xilinx in the Federal
District  Court in Delaware, alleging that our XC5200 family infringes an Altera
patent.  We  answered the Delaware suit denying that the XC5200 family infringes
the  patent  in suit, asserting certain affirmative defenses and counterclaiming
that  the Altera Max 9000 family infringes certain of our patents.  The Delaware
suit  was  transferred  to  the  United  States  District Court for the Northern
District  of  California.

On  July  22, 1998, Altera and Joseph Ward, a former Xilinx employee, filed suit
against  Xilinx in Superior Court in Santa Clara County, California, arising out
of  our  efforts  to  prevent  disclosure  of  certain  Company  confidential
information.  Altera's  suit  requests  declaratory  relief  and  claims  Xilinx
engages  in  unfair  business  practices  and  interference  with  contractual
relations.  On  September 10, 1998 we filed cross claims against Altera and Ward
for  unfair  competition  and  breach  of  contract,  among other claims, in the
California  action.  On  October  20,  1998,  Altera  and Ward filed crossclaims
against  Xilinx  for  malicious  prosecution  of civil action and defamation. On
September 15, 1999, the Court dismissed all of our claims against Altera and Mr.
Ward, finding that we were unable to show any damages we suffered as a result of
any  actions  by  Mr.  Ward.  Claims  against  Xilinx  are  still  pending.

The  ultimate  outcome  of  these  matters  cannot  be  determined at this time.
Management  believes  that  it  has  meritorious  defenses to such claims and is
defending them vigorously.  The foregoing is a forward-looking statement subject
to risks and uncertainties, and the future outcome of these matters could differ
materially  due to the uncertain nature of each legal proceeding and because the
lawsuits  are  still  in  the  pre-trial  stages.

On July 31, 1998, the Lemelson Foundation Partnership (Lemelson) filed a lawsuit
in  the United States District Court in Phoenix, Arizona against the Company and
twenty-five (25) other United States semiconductor companies for infringement of
certain  of  its  patents.  During  the third quarter of fiscal 1999, we entered
into  a  license settlement with Lemelson.  In response, Lemelson dismissed with
prejudice  all  claims  against  us.

There  are  no  other pending legal proceedings of a material nature to which we
are a party or of which any of our property is the subject.  We know of no legal
proceedings  contemplated  by  any  governmental  authority  or  agency.

NOTE  13.  WRITE-OFF  OF  IN-PROCESS  TECHNOLOGY

We  completed  the  acquisition  of  Philips  Semiconductors'  line of low-power
complex  programmable  logic devices (CPLDs) on August 2, 1999.  The total cost,
including  acquisition  related  fees,  was  approximately  $22.8  million.  The
purchase price allocation, based on an independent appraisal, resulted in a $4.6
million charge to research and development in the second quarter of fiscal 2000.
The  acquired  in-process  technology  represents  the  appraised  value  of
technologies  in  the  development  stage that had not yet reached technological
feasibility  and  does  not  have  alternative  future  uses.

In  January  1999, we acquired certain assets of MI Acquisition LLP, for a total
purchase  price  of  $6.8  million.  The  purchase price allocation, based on an
independent  appraisal,  resulted  in  a  $3.6  million  charge  to research and
development  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  1999  for acquired in-process
technology.  The  acquired  in-process technology represents the appraised value
of  technology  in  the development stage that had not yet reached technological
feasibility  and  does  not  have  alternative  future  uses.

NOTE 14.  SUBSEQUENT EVENT

On  May  31, 2000, Altera filed an additional suit against Xilinx in the Federal
District  Court  for  the Northern District of California, alleging that certain
Xilinx products, including our Virtex(tm)  FPGAs, infringe three Altera patents.
Altera's  suit  requests  unspecified monetary damages as well as issuance of an
injunction  to  prevent  Xilinx from selling allegedly infringing parts.  Xilinx
has not yet had the opportunity to fully review this latest suit and investigate
the  facts  related  thereto, and therefore can make no comment as to its likely
outcome.



REPORT  OF  ERNST  &  YOUNG  LLP,  INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
Xilinx,  Inc.

We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Xilinx, Inc. as
of  March  31, 2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders'  equity  and  cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended March 31, 2000.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed  in the Index at Item 14(a).  These financial statements and schedule are
the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to
express  an  opinion  on  these  financial  statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in  the  United  States.  Those  standards  require that we plan and perform the
audit  to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free  of  material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit  also  includes  assessing  the accounting principles used and significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well  as  evaluating the overall financial
statement  presentation.  We  believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for  our  opinion.

In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Xilinx,
Inc.  at March 31, 2000 and 1999, and the consolidated results of its operations
and  its  cash  flows  for each of the three years in the period ended March 31,
2000, in conformity with accounting  principles generally accepted in the United
States.  Also,  in  our  opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered  in  relation  to  the  basic  financial statements taken as a whole,
presents  fairly  in  all  material  respects the information set forth therein.

As  discussed  in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, in the
fiscal  year ended March 31, 1999, the Company changed its method of recognizing
revenue  on  certain  shipments  to  its  distributors.


                                                          /s/  Ernst & Young LLP


San  Jose,  California
April  18,  2000
except for Note 14, as to which the date is
May 31, 2000







SUPPLEMENTARY  FINANCIAL  DATA

QUARTERLY  DATA  (UNAUDITED)



QUARTERLY  DATA  (UNAUDITED)




ITEM  9.        CHANGES  IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE

Not applicable


                                    PART III
                                    --------


Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Report in that the
Registrant  will  file  a  definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A
(the  Proxy  Statement) not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Report, and certain information included therein is incorporated
herein  by  reference.  Only  those  sections  of  the  Proxy  Statement  which
specifically  address  the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference.
Such  incorporation  does  not  include the Compensation Committee Report or the
Performance  Graph  included  in  the  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  10.       DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

The  information  concerning  the  Company's  directors required by this Item is
incorporated  by  reference  to  the  Company's  Proxy  Statement.

The  information  concerning  the  Company's executive officers required by this
Item  is  incorporated  by  reference  to  the section in Item 1 hereof entitled
"Executive  Officers  of  the  Registrant."

ITEM  11.       EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  12.       SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  13.       CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.


                                     PART IV
                                     -------


ITEM  14.       EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    (1)  The Financial Statements required by Item 14 (a) are filed as Item 8
            of  this  annual  report.

       (2)  The  Financial Statement Schedule required by Item 14 (a) is filed
            as  Item  8  of  this  annual  report.

            Schedules not  filed have been omitted because they are not
            applicable, are not required  or the information required to be set
            forth therein is included in the financial  statements  or  notes
            thereto.

       (3)  The  exhibits  listed  below  in  (c) are filed or incorporated by
            reference  as  part  of  this  annual  report.

(b)    Reports  on  Form  8-K.   No  reports  on  Form 8-K were filed during the
       fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  2000.

(c)    Exhibits









                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of 1934, the Registrant, has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on
its  behalf  by  the  undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of San
Jose,  State  of  California,  on  the  1st  day  of  June,  2000.

                                          XILINX,  INC.



                                          By:   /s/  Willem P. Roelandts
                                          ------------------------------
                                          Willem  P.  Roelandts,
                                          Chief Executive Officer and President


