
10-K


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                   FORM 10-K
(Mark  One)
[ X  ]   Annual  report  pursuant  to  Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act  of  1934  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  March  29,  1997  or
[    ]   Transition report pursuant to section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act  of  1934

                       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER   0-18548

                                 XILINX, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                                   DELAWARE
         (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

                                  77-0188631
                     (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                  2100 LOGIC DRIVE, SAN JOSE, CA       95124
             (Address of principal executive offices)   (Zip Code)

                                (408) 559-7778
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
                                     None

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                         COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE

                               (Title of Class)

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether  the  registrant  (1) has filed all reports
required  to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months  (or for such shorter period that the
registrant  was  required  to  file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such  requirements  for  the  past  90  days.

                                            YES [  X  ]         NO  [    ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation  S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by  reference  in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this  Form  10-K.    [  X  ]

The  aggregate  market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant,  based  upon the closing sale price of the Common Stock on June 9,
1997  as  reported  on  the  NASDAQ  National  Market  was  approximately
$3,172,929,753.    Shares  of  Common Stock held by each executive officer and
director  and  by  each  person  who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common
Stock  have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed affiliates.  This
determination  of  affiliate  status  is  not  necessarily  a  conclusive
determination  for  other  purposes.

At June 9, 1997, registrant had 73,534,737 shares of Common Stock outstanding.


                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


Parts  of  the  Proxy  Statement  for  the Registrant's 1997 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders  are  incorporated  by  reference  in this Form 10-K Report (Part
III).


                                    PART I
                                    ------


ITEM  1.          BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Xilinx,  Inc.  (Xilinx or the Company) designs, develops and markets CMOS
(complementary  metal-oxide-silicon)  programmable  logic  devices and related
design software.  The Company's programmable logic product lines include field
programmable  gate  arrays  (FPGAs)  and  complex  programmable  logic devices
(CPLDs).    These components are standard integrated circuits (ICs) programmed
by  Xilinx's customers to perform desired logic operations.  Xilinx introduced
the  first  FPGA  device  in 1985, holds patents on certain programmable logic
devices  (PLD),  architecture  and technology, and continues to be the leading
supplier  of  programmable  logic  solutions.    Xilinx  also markets HardWire
Arrays,  which  are  mask-programmed ICs functionally equivalent to programmed
FPGAs.    The  Company's products are designed to provide high integration and
quick  time-to-market  for electronic equipment manufacturers in the computer,
peripheral,  telecommunications,  networking,  industrial  control,
instrumentation,  high-reliability/military  and  consumer  markets.

Competitive  pressures  require  manufacturers  of electronic systems to bring
increasingly  complex  products  to market rapidly.  Customer requirements for
improved  functionality,  performance,  reliability  and  lower cost are often
addressed  through the use of components that integrate ever larger numbers of
logic  gates  onto  a single integrated circuit because such integration often
results  in  faster  speed,  smaller  size,  lower power consumption and lower
costs.    However,  while global competition is increasing the demand for more
complex products, it is also shortening product life cycles and requiring more
frequent  product  enhancements.

Xilinx  provides  programmable  logic  solutions, which combine the high logic
density  typically, associated with custom gate arrays with the time to market
advantages  of  programmable logic and the availability of a standard product.
The  Company offers a broad product line of PLDs which serve a wide variety of
applications requiring high levels of integration and for which time to market
is  critical,  production  volumes  are  unpredictable  and/or frequent design
modifications  are  necessary to adapt a product to new markets.  Xilinx CPLDs
complement the Company's FPGA products and contribute to the Company's efforts
to  offer  comprehensive programmable logic solutions.  With FPGAs, which have
the advantages of higher density and lower power consumption, and CPLDs, which
are  typically  faster and have lower densities, the Company's products enable
electronic system manufacturers to rapidly bring complex products to market in
volume.    Xilinx's products have provided effective solutions to a wide range
of  customer  logic  requirements.

The Xilinx software strategy is to deliver an integrated design solution for a
broad customer base ranging from customers who are not familiar with designing
systems using PLDs to the most sophisticated customers accustomed to designing
high  density,  mask-programmed  gate  arrays.    The  objective is to deliver
strategic  software  advantages  that  combine  ease  of  use  with  design
flexibility,  effective  silicon  utilization  and  competitive  performance.

System designers use proprietary Xilinx design software together with industry
standard electronic design automation (EDA) tools to design and develop Xilinx
programmable  logic applications.  Designers define the logic functions of the
circuit  and  revise  such  functions  as  necessary.   Programmable logic can
typically  be designed and verified in a few days, as opposed to several weeks
or  months  for  gate  arrays,  which  are customized devices that are defined
during  the manufacturing process. Moreover, programmable logic design changes
can  typically  be  implemented  in  as  little as a few hours, as compared to
several  weeks  for  a  custom  gate  array.  In addition, significant savings
result  from  the  elimination  of  non-recurring  engineering  costs  and the
reduction  of expenses associated with the redesign and testing of custom gate
arrays.   By reducing the cost and scheduling risks of design iterations, PLDs
allow  greater  designer  creativity,  including  the  consideration of design
alternatives that often lead to product improvements.  Further, since PLDs are
standard  products  and  production  quantities  are  more  readily available,
exposures  to  obsolete  inventory  can  be  significantly  reduced.

Xilinx  was  organized in California in February 1984 and in November 1985 was
reorganized  to  incorporate its research and development limited partnership.
In  April  1990,  the  Company  reincorporated  in  Delaware.    The Company's
corporate  facilities  and  executive offices are located at 2100 Logic Drive,
San  Jose,  California  95124.

PRODUCTS

The  timely  introduction  of new products which address customer requirements
and compete effectively on the basis of price and performance is a significant
factor  in the future success of the Company's business.  Delays in developing
new  products  with anticipated technological advances or delays in commencing
volume shipments of new products could have an adverse effect on the Company's
financial  condition  and results of operations.  In addition, there can be no
assurance  that  such  products, if introduced, will gain market acceptance or
respond  effectively to new technological changes or new product introductions
by  other  companies.

     Programmable  Logic  Devices

The  Company's  FPGA  products include the XC2000, XC3000 and XC3100 families,
which  represent first generation products, as well as the XC4000, XC4000X and
XC5000  families,  which  represent second generation products.  The Company's
CPLD  products  include  the  XC7000 and XC9000 families. The Company's XC4000
product  family  includes  both  the  XC4000  and XC4000E.  The XC4000E family
increased  performance  over  previous  versions  of the XC4000 family through
utilization  of  a  new  design,  a new process technology and new on-chip RAM
features.    The  Company's  XC4000X  product  family  includes  the XC4000EX,
XC4000XL  and  XC4000XV.  The  XC4000EX  family  utilizes  the benefits of the
XC4000E  architecture  and  provides  additional  routing  resources  that are
expected  to  meet  the  design requirements for ICs with high gate densities.
The  XC4000X  family  is  expected  to  offer  a  powerful  solution  for  the
mask-programmed  gate  array  replacement  market.  The XC4000XL family, which
utilizes leading-edge 0.35 micron technology, is an extremely low power device
at  3.3  volts  due  to  Xilinx's segmented routing architecture.  The Company
began  shipping  XC4000XL  samples  in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997.  The
XC4000XV,  which  is  expected  to utilize 0.25 micron technology requiring as
little  as 2.5 volts, is currently being developed, and the Company expects to
begin  shipping  samples  in  fiscal  1998.    The preceding sentence contains
forward-looking  statements  which  are  subject  to  risks  and uncertainties
including  those  discussed in Item 7 in "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of  Financial  Condition  and  Results of Operation - Factors Affecting Future
Results."   The XC5000 family represents the first FPGA specifically developed
as  a  cost  effective, high volume production alternative to gate arrays. The
XC9000  family  utilizes  Flash-based  CPLD  architecture and offers in-system
programmability.

The  XC6000  family  is designed for reconfigurable processing using in-system
programmable  devices that can be defined and redefined in real time while the
system  is  operating  and  are  optimal  for  co-processing  or  embedded
applications.

PLDs  are  available  in  a wide variety of plastic and ceramic package types,
including  pin-grid  array,  surface  mount and quad flat pack configurations.
These  devices  meet  the  industry  standard  operating temperature ranges of
commercial,  industrial  and  military  users.

The  Company's HardWire Arrays offer a low cost migration path for high volume
applications.    Once  a programmable logic design is finalized, customers can
take  advantage  of  HardWire  products,  which are mask-programmed during the
manufacturing  process.    The  Company's  HardWire  Arrays  offer  a complete
turn-key conversion solution, which eliminates the engineering and risk burden
normally  associated  with  conventional  gate  arrays.  For every Xilinx FPGA
family,  there  is  a  corresponding  HardWire  Array.

In  order  to  minimize  the  printed circuit board area required for external
storage  of  the  FPGA configuration program, the Company provides a family of
erasable  programmable read-only memories (EPROMs).  These devices are sold by
the  Company  in  conjunction  with  its  FPGAs.

     Design  Software

The  Company's XACTstep software combines powerful technology with a flexible,
easy  to  use  graphical  interface to help achieve the best possible designs.
XACTstep provides all of the implementation technology required to design with
all Xilinx logic devices, including module generation, design optimization and
mapping,  placement and routing, timing analysis, and program file generation.
The  latest  generation  of  XACTstep  software,  which  incorporates software
technology  acquired from NeoCAD, Inc., became available in fiscal 1997 and is
designed  to  satisfy  the  complete  spectrum  of  FPGA  and  CPLD  customer
requirements.

The  Company  offers  two  complementary  design  software  solutions.    The
Foundation  Series  provides  designers with a complete, ready-to-use solution
that  is easy to learn and use.  For those customers that are new to designing
with  PLDs  or  want  a  low  cost  approach,  the  Company  offers this fully
integrated  software  solution.  The Alliance Series is for designers who want
maximum flexibility to integrate programmable logic design into their existing
EDA environment and methodology.  With interfaces to over 50 EDA vendors, this
product  allows  users  to  select tools with which they are most familiar and
therefore  shortens  their  design  cycle.

The  Company  also  provides pre-implemented, fully-verified, drop-in LogiCORE
modules  for  commonly  used,  complex  functions  such  as  digital  signal
processing.    Using LogiCORE modules, customers can shorten development time,
reduce  design  risk  and  obtain  superior  performance  for  their  designs.

Xilinx's  XACTstep  design  software  operates  on desktop computer platforms,
including  personal  computers  and  workstations  from  IBM,  IBM-compatible
manufacturers,  HP,  DEC  and  Sun  Microsystems.  Through March 31, 1997, the
Company  had  distributed  over  35,500  design  systems  worldwide.


RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

Xilinx's  research  and  development activities are primarily directed towards
the  design  of  new  integrated  circuits,  the  development  of  advanced
semiconductor  manufacturing processes, the development of new design software
and ongoing cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products.
The  Company's  recent  research  and  product  development  efforts have been
directed  principally  towards  its  XC4000X,  XC5000,  and XC6000 families of
FPGAs,  CPLD  products,  design  software  and  towards  other proprietary new
architectures  and  processes.

Xilinx  believes  that design software is an important factor in expanding the
use  of  programmable  logic  devices.  The Company's research and development
challenge  is  to  continue  to develop new products that create solutions for
customers.    In  fiscal  1997,  1996,  and  1995,  the Company's research and
development  expenses  were  $71.1  million,  $64.6 million and $45.3 million,
respectively.   The Company expects that it will continue to spend substantial
funds  on  research  and  development.    The  Company believes that technical
leadership is essential to its future success and is committed to continuing a
significant  level  of  research  and  development  effort.

MARKETING AND SALES

Xilinx  sells  its  products  through several channels of distribution: direct
sales  to  manufacturers  by  independent  sales  representative  firms, sales
through domestic distributors, and sales through foreign distributors.  Xilinx
also  utilizes  a  direct  sales  management  organization, field applications
engineers (FAEs) as well as manufacturer's representatives and distributors to
reach  a  broad  base  of  potential  customers.    The  Company's independent
representatives  generally  address  larger  OEM customers and act as a direct
sales  force,  while  distributors serve the balance of the Company's customer
base.   All channels are supported by the Company's sales and customer support
personnel  who  consult  with  customers  about their plans, ensuring that the
right  software  and  devices  are  selected  at  the  beginning of a project.

In  North  America,  Hamilton-Hallmark,  Marshall  Industries,  and  Insight
Electronics,  Inc.  distribute  the  Company's  products  nationwide,  and  Nu
Horizons Electronics provides additional regional sales coverage.  The Company
believes  that  distributors  provide a cost effective means of reaching small
and  medium-sized  customers.  Since the Company's PLDs are standard products,
they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors of custom gate
arrays,  and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support.

Because  the  distributors  have  certain  rights  of product return and price
protection  privileges, the Company defers recognition of revenues and related
cost  of  revenues  for  products sold through domestic distributors until the
distributors  sell  the  product.


BACKLOG AND CUSTOMERS

As  of  March 29, 1997, the Company's backlog of purchase orders scheduled for
delivery  within  the  next  three  months  was  $84.4  million.  Based on the
Company's  current  inventory  levels  and  wafer  capacity  availability, the
Company's  lead  times  have  shortened.    As a result, many of the Company's
customers  are  currently  placing orders for near-term delivery and providing
the  Company  relatively limited visibility to demand for products further out
than  three  months.    Backlog  as  of  March  30,  1996  was  $106.4. Orders
constituting  the Company's current backlog are subject to changes in delivery
schedule or to cancellation at the option of the purchaser without significant
penalty.    Accordingly, although useful for scheduling production, backlog as
of  any  particular  date  may  not  be a reliable measure of revenues for any
future  period.

No  single end customer accounted for more than 5% of revenues in fiscal 1997,
or  6%  in  1996  and  1995.    See  Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  in  Item  8  for  Industry  and  Geographic  Information.



WAFER FABRICATION

In  1997,  the  majority  of  wafers  for  PLDs  shipped  by  the Company were
manufactured  by  Seiko  Epson  Corporation  (Seiko  Epson)  and  United
Microelectronics Corporation, (UMC).  Precise terms with respect to the volume
and  timing  of  wafer  production and the pricing of wafers produced by Seiko
Epson  and UMC are determined by periodic negotiations between the Company and
these  foundry  partners.    From time to time, Xilinx may contract with other
suppliers  to provide leading-edge process technology wafers for the Company's
products.

Xilinx's  strategy  is  to  focus  its  resources  on  creating new integrated
circuits  and  design  software and on market development rather than on wafer
fabrication.    The  Company  continuously  evaluates opportunities to enhance
foundry  relationships  and/or  obtain  additional capacity.  As a result, the
Company  has  entered  into  recent  agreements  with  UMC  and Seiko Epson as
discussed  below.

The  Company,  UMC  and  other  parties  have  entered into a joint venture to
construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc.
(USI). See Notes 4 and 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item
8.    Under the terms of the agreement, the Company invested approximately $34
million  in  fiscal  1996  and  expects  to invest additional amounts totaling
approximately  $102  million,  for a 25% equity interest in the venture.  As a
result  of  its  equity  ownership,  the  Company  has  rights  to  purchase a
percentage  of  the  facility's wafer production at competitive market prices.
During  fiscal  1997,  the  Board of Directors of USI voted to delay the wafer
fabrication  facility  construction  schedule.    As  a result, the additional
payments  were  also  delayed  and are now expected to be made in fiscal 1998.
The revised schedule for construction of the facility and the related payments
are  subject  to  further  change  based  on  overall  semiconductor  industry
conditions  and  other  factors.    UMC  has committed to and is supplying the
Company  with  wafers  manufactured  in an existing facility until capacity is
available  in  the  new  facility.

In  fiscal  1997,  the Company signed an agreement with Seiko Epson, a primary
wafer  supplier.   See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
Item  8.    The agreement provides for an advance to Seiko Epson of up to $200
million  to  be  used  in  the  construction  in  Japan of a wafer fabrication
facility,  which  will  provide  access  to eight-inch, sub-micron wafers.  In 
conjunction with the agreement, $30 million installments were paid in May 1996, 
November 1996 and May 1997 (subsequent to fiscal 1997), and further $30 million
installments  are  scheduled for November 1, 1997 and February 1, 1998 or upon
the  start  of mass production, whichever is later.  The final installment for
the  advance  payment  of $50 million is due on or after the later of April 1,
1998  or  the date the outstanding balance of the advance payment is less than
$125  million.    As  a  result, the maximum outstanding amount of the advance
payment  at any time is $175 million. Repayment of this advance will be in the
form of wafer deliveries expected to begin in the first half of calendar 1998.
Specific  wafer  pricing  will  be  based  upon  the  prices of similar wafers
manufactured  by  other,  specifically  identified,  leading-edge  foundry
suppliers.    The  advance  payment provision also provides for interest to be
paid  to the Company in the form of free wafers.  The Company may also provide
further  funding  to  Seiko  Epson  in  the  amount of $100 million, which, if
provided,  will  be  paid  after the final installment of the advance, and its
terms  and  conditions  will  be  negotiated  at  that  time.

SORT, ASSEMBLY AND TEST

Wafers  purchased  by  the Company are sorted by the foundry, independent sort
subcontractors  or  by  the  Company.    Sorted  wafers  are  assembled  by  a
subcontractor  in  facilities  in  Pacific Rim countries.  During the assembly
process,  the  wafers  are separated into individual integrated circuits which
are  then  assembled  into  various  package  types.   Following assembly, the
packaged  units  are  tested  by  independent test subcontractors or by Xilinx
personnel  at  the  Company's  San  Jose  or  Ireland  facilities.


PATENTS AND LICENSES

Through  March  29,  1997,  the  Company  held  143  United States patents and
maintains  an  active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of
software,  IC  architecture  and  design.    The Company intends to vigorously
protect  its  intellectual  property.    The  Company believes that failure to
enforce  its patents or to effectively protect its trade secrets could have an
adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
See Legal Proceedings in Item 3 and Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  in  Item  8.

Xilinx has acquired various software licenses that permit the Company to grant
object  code  sublicenses  to  its  customers for certain third party software
programs licensed with the Company's design software. In addition, the Company
has  licensed  certain  software  for  internal  use  in  product  design.

EMPLOYEES

Xilinx's  employee  population  has  grown  by 6% during the past year.  As of
March 29, 1997, Xilinx had 1,277 employees compared to 1,201 at the end of the
prior year.  None of the Company's employees are represented by a labor union.
The Company has not experienced any work stoppages and considers its relations
with  its  employees  to  be  good.

COMPETITION

The  Company's  FPGA  and  CPLD  products  compete  in  the programmable logic
marketplace,  with  a  substantial  majority of the Company's revenues derived
from  its FPGA product families.  The industries in which the Company competes
are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change,
rapid  product obsolescence and continuous price erosion.  The Company expects
significant  competition  both  from existing competitors and from a number of
companies  that  may  enter  its  market.

Xilinx  believes  that important competitive factors in the programmable logic
market  include  price,  product  performance and reliability, adaptability of
products  to  specific  applications,  ease of use and functionality of design
software,  and  the  provision  of  timely  customer service and support.  The
Company's  strategy  for  expansion  in the programmable logic market includes
continued  price reductions commensurate with the ability to lower the cost of
manufacture for established products and continued introduction of new product
architectures which address high volume, low cost applications as well as high
performance,  leading-edge  density  applications.    However, there can be no
assurance  that  the Company will be successful in achieving these strategies.

The  Company's  major  sources of competition are comprised of three elements:
the  manufacturers  of  custom  CMOS  gate  arrays,  providers of high density
programmable  logic  products  characterized  by  FPGA-type architectures, and
other  providers  of  programmable  logic products.  The Company competes with
custom  gate  array  manufacturers on the basis of lower design costs, shorter
development  schedules and reduced inventory risks.  The primary attributes of
custom  gate  arrays  are high density, high speed and low production costs in
high  volumes.    The  Company  continues  to develop lower cost architectures
intended  to narrow the gap between current custom gate array production costs
(in  high  volumes)  and  FPGA  production  costs.

The  Company  competes  with  high density programmable logic suppliers on the
basis  of  performance, the ability to deliver complete solutions to customers
and  customer  support,  taking  advantage  of  the primary characteristics of
flexible,  high  speed implementation and quick time-to-market capabilities of
the  Company's  PLD product offerings.  In addition, the Company competes with
manufacturers  of  other  programmable  logic  products on the basis of price,
power,  performance,  design  and  software  utility.  To the extent that such
efforts  to  compete are not successful, the Company's financial condition and
results  of  operations  could  be materially adversely affected.  The Company
believes  that  certain of its patents have been infringed by a competitor and
has  initiated  legal  action to protect its intellectual property.  See Legal
Proceedings  in  Item  3  and  Note  10  of  Notes  to  Consolidated Financial
Statements  in  Item  8.

The  benefits  of  programmable  logic have attracted a number of companies to
this  market,  competing  primarily  on  the  basis of speed, density or cost.
Xilinx  recognizes  that different applications require different programmable
technologies,  and the Company is developing multiple architectures, processes
and products to meet these varying customer needs.  Recognizing the increasing
importance  of standard software solutions, Xilinx has developed common design
software  that supports the full range of integrated circuit products.  Xilinx
believes  that  automation  and ease of design will be significant competitive
factors  in  the  programmable  logic  market.

Several  companies, both large and small, have introduced products competitive
with  those  of  the  Company  or have announced their intention to enter this
market.   Some of the Company's competitors may possess innovative technology,
which  could  prove  superior to Xilinx's technology in some applications.  In
addition,  the  Company  anticipates  potential  competition from suppliers of
logic  products  based  on new technologies.  Some of the Company's current or
potential  competitors  have  substantially  greater financial, manufacturing,
marketing  and  technical  resources  than Xilinx. This additional competition
could  adversely  affect  the  Company's  financial  condition  and results of
operations.

Xilinx  also  faces  competition from its licensees.  Under a license from the
Company,  Lucent  Technologies  is  manufacturing  and marketing the Company's
non-proprietary  XC3000  FPGA  products  and  is  employing that technology to
provide  additional  FPGA  products  offering higher density.  Seiko Epson has
rights  to  manufacture  the  Company's  products and market them in Japan and
Europe  but  is not currently doing so.  Advanced Micro Devices is licensed to
use  certain of the Company's patents to manufacture and market products other
than SRAM-based FPGAs and, as of March 1997, can also compete directly in this
market.




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Certain information regarding each of Xilinx's executive officers is set forth
below:








There  is  no family relationship between any director or executive officer of
the  Company.

Willem  P.  "Wim"  Roelandts  joined  the  Company  in  January  1996 as Chief
Executive  Officer and a member of the Company's Board of Directors.  In April
1996  he  was  appointed  as Xilinx's President.  Previously, he was a 28-year
veteran of Hewlett-Packard Company, where he served as a senior vice president
and  managed  the  company's  Computer Systems Organization from November 1992
through January 1996.  In this capacity, he was responsible for all aspects of
the  computer  systems business worldwide, including research and development,
manufacturing,  marketing,  professional services and sales. He also served as
vice  president and general manager of the Network Systems Group from December
1990  to  November  1992.

R.  Scott  Brown joined the Company in 1985 as Vice President of Sales and was
promoted  to  Senior  Vice  President,  Worldwide  Sales  in  1995.

Richard W. Sevcik joined the Company in April 1997 as Senior Vice President of
Software.    He was at Hewlett-Packard Company for 10 years where, since 1994,
he  served  as group general manager of the company's Systems Technology Group
and oversaw five divisions involved with product development for the Company's
servers,  workstations,  operating  systems,  microprocessors,  networking and
security.   In 1995 he was named vice president.  From 1992 to 1994, he served
as  group  general manager of Computer Systems and Servers and was responsible
for  four  divisions.  Prior to that, he was general manager of the Commercial
Systems  Division,  a  division  that  develops,  manufactures and markets the
company's  business  computers.

Gordon  M.  Steel  joined  the  Company in 1987 as Vice President, Finance and
Chief Financial Officer and was promoted to Senior Vice President, Finance and
Chief  Financial  Officer  in  1995.

Robert C. Hinckley joined the Company in 1991 as Vice President, Strategic
Plans and Programs and as the Company's General Counsel.  He was appointed
Secretary in 1993.  He acted as interim Chief Operating Officer from March
through August 1994.

C. Frank Myers has been Vice President, Operations since 1988.  He joined the
Company in 1985 as Vice President of Manufacturing.




ITEM  2.          PROPERTIES

Xilinx's  corporate offices, which include the administrative, sales, customer
support,  marketing,  research  and  development  and final testing groups are
located  in  San  Jose,  California.    The  site  includes adjacent buildings
providing  335,000  square  feet  of  available space which are leased through
1999.    The  Company  has  entered  into  lease  agreements relating to these
facilities  which  would  allow the Company to purchase these facilities on or
before  the lease expiration dates in December 1999.  In addition, the Company
has  a  100,000 square foot administrative, research and development and final
testing  facility  in  the  metropolitan  area of Dublin, Ireland and a 60,000
square  foot  facility in Boulder, Colorado.  The Irish facility is being used
to  service  the  Company's  customer base outside of North America, while the
Boulder facility is the primary location for the Company's software efforts in
the areas of research and development, manufacturing and quality control.  The
Company  also  maintains  domestic sales offices in twenty-two locations which
include  the  metropolitan  areas of Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Denver, Dallas,
Los  Angeles, Minneapolis, Philadelphia, Raleigh and San Jose as well as eight
international  sales  offices  located  in  the  metropolitan areas of London,
Munich,  Paris,  Stockholm,  Tokyo,  Taipei,  Seoul  and  Hong  Kong.

ITEM  3.          LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS

On June 7, 1993, the Company filed suit against Altera Corporation (Altera) in
the  United  States District Court for the Northern District of California for
infringement  of certain of the Company's patents.  Subsequently, Altera filed
suit  against  the  Company,  alleging  that certain of the Company's products
infringe certain Altera patents.  Fact and expert discovery has been completed
in  both cases, which have been consolidated.  On April 20, 1995, Altera filed
an  additional  suit  against  the  Company  in  the Federal District Court in
Delaware,  alleging  that  the  Company's  XC5000  family  infringes an Altera
patent.  The Company answered the Delaware suit denying that the XC5000 family
infringes  the  patent  in  suit,  asserting  certain affirmative defenses and
counterclaiming  that  the  Altera  Max  9000  family infringes certain of the
Company's  patents.    The  Delaware suit was transferred to the United States
District  Court for the Northern District of California and is also before the
same  judge.    The  ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at
this  time.    Management  believes  that  it has meritorious defenses to such
claims  and  is defending them vigorously.  The foregoing is a forward-looking
statement  subject  to  risks  and uncertainties, and the future outcome could
differ  materially  due  to the uncertain nature of the litigation with Altera
and  because  the  lawsuits  are  still  in  the  pre-trial  stage.

There are no other pending legal proceedings of a material nature to which the
Company  is  a  party  or  of  which  any of its property is the subject.  The
Company  knows  of  no  legal  proceedings  contemplated  by  any governmental
authority  or  agency.

ITEM  4.          SUBMISSION  OF  MATTERS  TO  A  VOTE  OF  SECURITY  HOLDERS

No  matters  were  submitted  to  a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter  of  the  fiscal  year  covered  by  this  report.




                                    -------
                                    PART II
                                    -------


ITEM  5.          MARKET  FOR  THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY  AND
                          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Xilinx's Common Stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
XLNX.    The  table  below reflects for the periods indicated the high and low
closing  sales prices per share of the Common Stock, as reported on the Nasdaq
National  Market.    Xilinx has never paid a cash dividend on its Common Stock
and  intends  to continue this policy for the foreseeable future.  As of March
29,  1997,  there  were  approximately 650 stockholders of record.  Since many
holders'  shares  are  listed  under  their brokerage firms' names, the actual
number  of  stockholders  is  estimated  by  the  Company  to  be over 21,000.





ITEM  6.       SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA - (in thousands, except per share data)



~ The  Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest March 31.  For ease of
presentation,  March  31  has  been  utilized  as  the fiscal year-end for all
financial  statement  captions.


    






ITEM  7.          MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL
                      CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     Cautionary Statement

The  statements  in this Management's Discussion and Analysis that are forward
looking  involve  numerous  risks  and  uncertainties and are based on current
expectations.    Actual  results  may  differ  materially.    Such  risks  and
uncertainties are discussed under "Factors Affecting Future Results".  Forward
looking  statements  can  often  be  identified  by the use of forward looking
words,  such  as  "may,"  "will,"  "could,"  "should,"  "expect,"  "believe,"
"anticipate,"  "estimate,"  "continue,"  "plan," "intend," "project," or other
similar  words.



     Nature of Operations

Xilinx,  Inc.  (Xilinx  or  the  Company)  designs,  develops and markets CMOS
(complementary  metal-oxide-silicon)  programmable  logic  devices and related
design software.  The Company's programmable logic product lines include field
programmable  gate  arrays  (FPGAs)  and  complex  programmable  logic devices
(CPLDs).    These components are standard integrated circuits (ICs) programmed
by  Xilinx's customers to perform desired logic operations.  Xilinx introduced
the  first  FPGA  device  in 1985, holds patents on certain programmable logic
device  (PLD)  architecture  and  technology,  and continues to be the leading
supplier  of  programmable  logic  solutions.    Xilinx  also markets HardWire
devices,  which  are mask-programmed ICs functionally equivalent to programmed
FPGAs.    The  Company's products are designed to provide high integration and
quick  time-to-market  for electronic equipment manufacturers in the computer,
peripheral,  telecommunications,  networking,  industrial  control,
instrumentation,  high-reliability/military and consumer markets.  The Company
markets its products throughout the world through a direct sales organization,
direct sales to manufacturers by independent sales representative firms, sales
through licensed domestic distributors and sales through foreign distributors.
Xilinx's  products  have  provided  effective  solutions  to  a  wide range of
customer  logic  requirements.

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth certain operational data both as percentages of
annual  revenues  and  as  percentage  changes  from the prior year's results.







     Revenue

Revenues for fiscal 1997 increased to $568.1 million, representing an increase
of  1.3% from $560.8 million for 1996 and 60% from the $355.1 million reported
for  1995.  The level of revenues in fiscal 1997 was significantly impacted by
a  semiconductor  industry inventory correction which reduced customer demand.
The  Company's  revenue  increase  in  1997  was primarily attributable to the
revenue  growth  of  the  XC5200 product family, introduced in fiscal 1996, as
well as the growth of the Company's XC4000 product family, offset by decreased
revenues  derived  from  the Company's first generation products including the
XC2000  family  and  non-proprietary  products in the Company's XC3000 product
family,  where  there is a second source competitor.  Revenues from the XC4000
and XC4000X family increased 5.9% between 1996 and 1997 to $264.5 million, and
revenues  for  the  XC5200 family increased from $9.1 million in 1996 to $37.5
million  in  1997.

Revenue  contribution  by  programmable  logic  product  line  reflected a mix
between  increased  customer  demand  for  low  cost,  medium  range  density
programmable  logic  devices and the functionality and performance provided by
the  Company's  higher  density  and  higher speed programmable logic devices.
Revenues  from  proprietary  products,  for  which  there  is no second source
competitor, increased from 84.9% of aggregate revenues in 1996 to 91% in 1997.
In  the  fourth  quarter  of 1997, proprietary products accounted for 93.3% of
total revenues as compared to 88.1% for the comparable 1996 quarter.  Deriving
revenues  from  proprietary  products has been emphasized by the Company as an
effective  corporate pricing strategy that has as its aim to expand the market
for  its  products  by  reducing sales prices coincident with and commensurate
with  reductions  in  the  cost  of manufacturing these products.  The Company
currently  intends  to continue actively pursuing a strategy of broadening the
markets  it  serves  through  the  enhancement  of  software design tools, the
introduction of architectures offering new functionality, and the reduction of
IC  prices  through  continuous  advancements  in  the  silicon  manufacturing
process.

Revenues  for  the  Company's  first  generation  products,  which include the
XC2000,  XC3000  and XC3100 families, represented 33.2% of aggregate component
revenues  in  fiscal 1997, as compared to 40.3% in fiscal 1996.  The Company's
second generation products, including the XC4000, XC4000X and XC5200 families,
represented  54.8% of aggregate component revenues in fiscal 1997, as compared
to 47.8% in fiscal 1996.  Revenues from other products, which include the CPLD
families,  HardWire and serial proms, were  relatively comparable between 1997
and  1996.    During  1997, all second generation product families experienced
increases  in  unit  volume.    The  average  selling price for PLDs decreased
approximately  6%  in 1997 relative to the previous year, although the average
selling  price of a PLD product family decreased by up to 33% during the year.
Individual  products within certain families decreased in price as much as 40%
during  the  past year, as prices were reduced in order to expand market share
while  realizing acceptable returns.  Price erosion of this magnitude has been
common  in  the  semiconductor  industry, as advances in both architecture and
manufacturing  process technology have permitted continual reductions in cost.
The  Company  relies  upon introducing new products which incorporate advanced
features  and other price/performance factors such that higher average selling
prices  and  higher margins are achievable despite the price erosion on mature
product  lines.

Xilinx's  design  software  is  used  by  the Company's customers to implement
designs  in  the  Company's  programmable  logic  devices.   Software revenues
remained  relatively comparable from 1996 to 1997 at $17.1 million as compared
to $12.6 million in 1995.  Cumulative licenses for proprietary design software
distributed  to customers through the end of 1997 totaled approximately 35,500
units,  as  compared  to  26,700 and 21,000 units at the end of 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  Software sales as a percentage of total revenues represented 3%
of  revenues  in  1997  and  1996  and  4%  in  1995.

No single end customer accounted for more than 5% of revenues in 1997 or 6% of
revenues  in  1996  or  1995.

International  revenues  constituted  approximately  36%, 35% and 31% of total
revenues  for  1997,  1996  and  1995,  respectively.   International revenues
continue  to be primarily to customers in Europe and Japan.  Revenue growth in
these  international  markets  over  the  past  year  was  3.3%  and  2.7%,
respectively.    The  Company's  manufacturing  facility  in  Dublin, Ireland,
continues to increase production levels and has enhanced the Company's ability
to  meet  the needs of its international customers.  The Company believes that
international  revenues  will  continue to grow at a faster rate in the future
than  domestic sales, and projects that such revenues will eventually comprise
50%  of  the  worldwide  total.    However,  there  can  be no assurances that
international  revenues will reach this level in the future.  Sales to Pacific
Rim,  Middle  East  and  other regions outside North America, Europe and Japan
represented  approximately  4%  of  revenues  in  1997,  1996  and  1995.

The  Company believes that the semiconductor industry inventory correction has
ended, as the Company experienced sequential quarterly increases in orders and
revenues  during  the  last  two  quarters  of  fiscal  1997.

     Gross  Margin

Gross  margin  as  a  percentage of revenues was 62.3% for 1997, excluding the
impact  of  a  $5  million  write-off of the XC8100 product family of one-time
programmable antifuse devices (see below). Gross margins in 1996 and 1995 were
63.8%  and  61%,  respectively.    The  increase  in the cost of revenues as a
percentage  of  revenues  in  1997 was primarily attributable to selling price
reductions  and  increased inventory reserves relating to an expanded level of
inventory,  partially  offset  by  the  favorable impact of lower wafer costs,
reflecting  reduced  prices  from  wafer  suppliers  and  the  impact  of  the
strengthened  U.S.  dollar exchange rate against the yen, and improved yields.
Over  the  past  three  years, Xilinx has also been able to offset much of the
erosion  in  gross  margin percentages on more mature integrated circuits with
increased  volumes  of newer, proprietary, higher margin products, although no
assurance can be given that the Company will do so in the future.  The Company
recognizes  that  ongoing  price  reductions for its integrated circuits are a
significant  element  in  expanding  the  market  for  its  products.  Company
management believes that future gross margin objectives in the range of 60% to
62%  of  revenues  are  more  consistent  with  expanding  market  share while
realizing  acceptable  returns, although there can be no assurance that future
gross  margins  will  be  in  this  range.

During  fiscal  1997,  the  Company discontinued the XC8100 family of one-time
programmable  antifuse  devices.    As a result, the Company recorded a pretax
charge  against  earnings of $5 million.  This charge primarily related to the
write-off  of  inventory  and  for  termination  charges  related  to purchase
commitments  to  foundry  partners  for  work-in-process  wafers which had not
completed  the  manufacturing  process.

     Research  and  Development

The  Company  has  increased the amount spent on research and development each
year  in  its thirteen year history. Research and development expenses in 1997
exceeded  those of the prior year by 10% and those of 1995 by 56.8%.  Research
and  development  expenses  as a percentage of revenue increased from 11.5% in
1996  to  12.5% in 1997, and was impacted by the level of revenues experienced
in  1997.    The  increase  in  research and development expenses is primarily
attributable to increased headcount and labor expenses, increased purchases of
engineering wafers and increased facility and support costs associated with an
expanded  scope  of operations. The Company remains committed to a significant
level  of  research  and  development  effort  in order to continue to compete
aggressively  in  the programmable logic marketplace.  Through March 31, 1997,
the  Company  has received 143 U.S. patents and maintains an active program of
filing  for  additional  patents in the areas of software, IC architecture and
design.    As of March 31, 1997, research and development personnel were split
approximately  40%  for software development and 60% for IC design and process
development.   Xilinx has not capitalized any of the costs associated with its
software  development.

     Marketing,  General  and  Administrative

Marketing, general and administrative costs represented 20.9%, 19.2% and 21.6%
of revenues in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.  The increase in costs as a
percentage  of  revenue  in  1997  over  1996  is a reflection of the level of
revenues  experienced in 1997.  Sales and support expenses have increased each
year  due to increased personnel and labor costs and increased commissions due
to  changes  in  the  revenue  channel  mix.  The Company has twenty-two sales
offices  located  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada,  including the
metropolitan  areas  of  San  Jose,  Los  Angeles,  Denver,  Dallas,  Chicago,
Minneapolis,  Atlanta,  Raleigh,  Philadelphia  and  Boston  as  well as eight
international  sales  offices  located  in  the  metropolitan areas of London,
Munich, Paris, Stockholm, Tokyo, Taipei, Seoul and Hong Kong.  There was a 10%
increase  in  marketing,  general  and administrative expenses during 1997, as
compared  to  1996.  This was primarily attributable to increases in headcount
and  employee  expenses,  partially  offset by reduced discretionary spending.
The  Company  remains  committed  to  controlling  administrative  expenses.
However,  the  timing  and  extent  of  future legal costs associated with the
ongoing  enforcement  of  the  Company's  intellectual property rights are not
readily  predictable  and  may significantly increase the level of general and
administrative  expenses  in  the  future.

     Non-recurring  Charges

During  fiscal  1996,  the  Company  incurred  a  $19.4  million non-recurring
write-off of in-process technology relating to the acquisition of NeoCAD, Inc.
See  Note  3  of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  During 1995, the
Company  incurred  a  $2.5  million write-off of a minority investment in Star
Semiconductor  Corporation.



     Operating  Income

Operating  income  of  $159.1  million  decreased from the prior year's $165.8
million  but  increased  from 1995's $92 million. Operating income in 1997 was
$164.1  million  before  consideration  of the write-off of the XC8100 product
family.  Operating income as a percentage of revenues was 28%, 29.6% and 25.9%
in  1997,  1996 and 1995, respectively.  Before consideration of non-recurring
charges  and  write-offs,  operating  income  as  a percentage of revenues was
28.9%,  33.1% and 26.6% in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The decrease in
1997  from  1996  is  primarily a result of the 1.3% revenue growth in 1997 in
comparison  to 10% increases year to year in research and development spending
and  marketing,  general  and  administrative spending.  Operating income as a
percentage  of  revenues  could  be  adversely impacted in future years by the
factors  noted  herein.

     Interest,  Net

The  Company incurs interest expense on the $250 million of 5 1/4% convertible
subordinated notes issued in November 1995.  The Company earns interest income
on  its  cash,  cash  equivalents,  short-term  investments  and  restricted
investments.    The  amount of interest earned is a function of the balance of
cash  invested as well as prevailing interest rates.  The Company also records
25% of the net income of United Silicon Inc. (USI) , a wafer fabrication joint
venture in which the Company participates, as joint venture equity income.  To
date,  USI's  net  income  has  resulted primarily from interest earned on its
investment  portfolio.    Net  interest and other income for 1997 increased by
$1.6  million  over 1996.  In 1997, the increased interest and other income is
primarily  attributable  to  higher  investment  portfolio  balances and joint
venture  equity  income.   The Company expects that the USI joint venture will
begin to ramp up operations over the next year, and that the Company may incur
joint  venture  equity  losses  during  the  start-up  phase.    The Company's
investment  portfolio  contains tax-advantaged municipal securities which have
pretax  yields  which  are  less  than  the  interest  rate on the convertible
subordinated notes.  For financial reporting purposes, the Company effectively
records  the  difference  between  the  pretax  and tax-equivalent yields as a
reduction  in provision for taxes on income.  As a result of the difference in
yields, future uses of the investment portfolio and operating results for USI,
levels  of  net  interest  and  other  income  could  decrease  in the future.

     Provision  for  Income  Taxes

Xilinx's  effective tax rate was 33.4% for 1997 as compared to 40.6% and 37.5%
for  1996  and 1995, respectively.  The tax rate for fiscal 1997 was favorably
impacted  by  legislation  reinstating the R&D Tax Credit as well as increased
profits  in foreign operations where the tax rate is lower than the U.S. rate.
Excluding the write-off of in-process technology, in fiscal 1996 the Company's
effective  tax  rate  was  36.5%.

     Inflation

To  date,  the  effects of inflation upon the Company's financial results have
not  been  significant.

FACTORS  AFFECTING  FUTURE  RESULTS

     Dependence  Upon  Independent  Manufacturers  and  Subcontractors

The  Company  does not manufacture the wafers used for its products.  In 1997,
most  of  the  Company's  wafers  were manufactured by Seiko Epson Corporation
(Seiko  Epson) and United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC).  The Company has
depended  upon  these  suppliers and others to produce wafers with competitive
performance  and  cost attributes, including transitioning to advanced process
technologies,  producing  wafers  at acceptable yields, and delivering them to
the  Company  in  a timely manner.  While the timeliness, yield and quality of
wafer  deliveries have met the Company's requirements to date, there can be no
assurance  that  the  Company's  wafer  suppliers  will  not experience future
manufacturing  problems,  including  delays  in  the  realization  of advanced
process  technologies.    The  Company  is also dependent on subcontractors to
provide  semiconductor  assembly  services.  Any prolonged inability to obtain
wafers  or assembly services with competitive performance and cost attributes,
adequate  yields or timely deliveries from these manufacturers/subcontractors,
or  any  other circumstance that would require the Company to seek alternative
sources  of  supply,  could delay shipments, and have an adverse effect on the
Company's  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

The  Company's  long-term  growth  will  depend in large part on the Company's
ability  to  obtain  increased  wafer  fabrication capacity from suppliers.  A
significant  increase in general industry demand or any interruption of supply
could  reduce the Company's supply of wafers or increase the Company's cost of
such  wafers,  thereby  materially adversely affecting the Company's financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.

In  order  to  secure additional wafer capacity, the Company from time to time
considers  alternatives, including, without limitation, equity investments in,
or  loans,  deposits,  or  other  financial  commitments to, independent wafer
manufacturers  to  secure  production  capacity, or the use of contracts which
commit  the  Company  to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended
periods.    Although  the  Company  is  currently  able  to obtain wafers from
existing  suppliers  in a timely manner, the Company has at times been unable,
and  may  in the future be unable, to fully satisfy customer demand because of
production  constraints, including the ability of suppliers and subcontractors
to  provide materials and services in satisfaction of customer delivery dates,
as  well  as the ability of the Company to process products for shipment.  The
Company's  future  growth  will  depend  in  part on its ability to locate and
qualify  additional  suppliers  and  subcontractors  and  to  increase its own
capacity to ship products, and there can be no assurance that the Company will
be  able  to  do  so.    Any  increase  in  these constraints on the Company's
production  could  result  in  a  material  adverse  impact  on  the Company's
financial  condition  and  results of operations.  In this regard, the Company
has  entered  into  the USI joint venture with UMC and other parties to obtain
wafer  capacity  from  a new wafer fabrication facility.  See Notes 4 and 6 of
Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial Statements and the 'Commitments' discussion
within "Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources."  However, there
are  many  risks associated with the construction of a new facility, and there
can  be  no  assurance  that such facility will become operational and/or cost
effective  in  a  timely manner.  In addition, the Company has entered into an
agreement  with  Seiko  Epson  to  obtain  additional capacity from a facility
currently  under construction and expected to provide wafers in calendar 1998.
See  Note  6  of  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 and the
'Commitments'  discussion  within  "Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital
Resources,"  in  Item 7.  If the Company requires additional capacity and such
capacity  is  unavailable,  or  unavailable on reasonable terms, the Company's
financial  condition  and  results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

     Impact  of  Currency

The Company's purchases of the processed silicon wafers used in its integrated
circuits  from Japanese foundries have been denominated in yen.  To reduce the
Company's  exposure  for yen denominated liabilities, the Company's sales into
Japan  are  denominated  in  yen.    In the past, the Company has periodically
limited  its  net  exposure  to  fluctuations in the yen-to-US dollar exchange
rates  through  the  use  of  forward  exchange or option contracts.  Based on
existing agreements with wafer suppliers, which should result in decreased yen
denominated  wafer  receipts  in the future, the Company believes that its net
exposure  relating to fluctuations in the yen-to-US dollar exchange rate could
decline,  although there can be no assurance that this will be the case.  As a
result,  the  Company  may  need  to  adjust  its future hedging strategy.  In
addition,  the  Company has entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to
minimize the impact of future exchange fluctuations relating to the New Taiwan
dollar  USI  joint  venture  investment.



     Litigation

The Company is currently involved in patent litigation with Altera Corporation
(see  Note  10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Item 3, Legal
Proceedings).    The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at
this time.  Management believes that it has meritorious defenses to the claims
asserted  against  it  and  is  defending them vigorously.  The foregoing is a
forward  looking  statement subject to risks and uncertainties, and the future
outcome  could differ materially due to the uncertain nature of the litigation
with  Altera  and  because  the  lawsuits  are  still  in the pre-trial stage.

     Other  Factors  Affecting  Operating  Results

The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized by rapid technological change,
intense  competitive  pressure  and  cyclical  market patterns.  The Company's
results  of  operations  are  affected by a wide variety of factors, including
general  economic  conditions,  conditions  relating  to technology companies,
conditions  specific  to  the  semiconductor  industry,  decreases  in average
selling  prices  over  the  life  of any particular product, the timing of new
product  introductions  (by  the  Company,  its  competitors  and others), the
ability  to  manufacture  in  a timely manner sufficient quantities of a given
product,  the  timely  implementation  of  new manufacturing technologies, the
ability  to  safeguard patents and intellectual property from competitors, and
the  impact  of  new  technologies resulting in rapid escalation of demand for
some  products  in  the  face  of  equally steep decline in demand for others.
Market demand for the Company's products, particularly for those most recently
introduced,  can  be  difficult  to predict, especially in light of customers'
demands  to  shorten  product  lead  times  and  minimize  inventory  levels.
Unpredictable  market  demand  could lead to revenue volatility if the Company
were  unable to provide sufficient quantities of specified products in a given
quarter.  In  addition,  any difficulty in achieving targeted wafer production
yields could adversely impact the Company's financial condition and results of
operations.   The Company attempts to identify changes in market conditions as
soon  as  possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and
timely  reaction  to  such  events  difficult.  Due to the foregoing and other
factors,  past  results,  including those described in this report, are a much
less  reliable  predictor  of  the future than is the case in many older, more
stable  and  less  dynamic industries.  Based on the factors noted herein, the
Company  may  experience  substantial  period-to-period fluctuations in future
operating  results.

The  Company's  future success depends in large part on its ability to develop
and  introduce  on  a  timely  basis  new  products  which  address  customer
requirements  and  compete  effectively on the basis of price and performance.
The  success  of  new product introductions is dependent upon several factors,
including  timely  completion  of  new product designs, the ability to utilize
advanced  process technologies, achievement of acceptable yields, availability
of  supporting  design  software  and  market acceptance.  No assurance can be
given  that  the  Company's  product development efforts will be successful or
that  its  new  products will achieve market acceptance.  Revenues relating to
the  Company's  first  generation  FPGA  products  are expected to continue to
decline in the future as a percentage of aggregate component revenues, and the
Company  will  be  increasingly  dependent  on  revenues  derived  from second
generation  FPGAs  and  future  generation products.  In addition, the average
selling  price  for  any particular product tends to decrease rapidly over the
product's  life.    To  offset such decreases, the Company relies primarily on
obtaining  yield  improvements  and  corresponding  cost  reductions  in  the
manufacture  of  existing  products  and  on  introducing  new  products which
incorporate  advanced  features  and other price/performance factors such that
higher  average  selling  prices and higher margins are achievable relative to
mature product lines.  To the extent that such cost reductions and new product
introductions  do  not  occur in a timely manner, or the Company's products do
not  achieve  market  acceptance  at prices with higher margins, the Company's
financial  condition  and  results  of operations could be adversely affected.

The  Company's  FPGA  and  CPLD  products  compete  in  the programmable logic
marketplace,  with  a  substantial  majority of the Company's revenues derived
from  its FPGA product families.  The industries in which the Company competes
are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change,
rapid  product obsolescence and continuous price erosion.  The Company expects
significantly  increased competition both from existing competitors and from a
number  of  companies  that  may  enter  its  market.

Xilinx  believes  that important competitive factors in the programmable logic
market  include  price,  product  performance and reliability, adaptability of
products  to  specific  applications,  ease of use and functionality of design
software, and the ability to provide timely customer service and support.  The
Company's  strategy  for  expansion  in the programmable logic market includes
continued  price reductions commensurate with the ability to lower the cost of
manufacture for established products and continued introduction of new product
architectures which address high volume, low cost applications as well as high
performance,  leading  edge  density  applications.   However, there can be no
assurance  that  the Company will be successful in achieving these strategies.

The  Company's  major  sources of competition are comprised of three elements:
the  manufacturers  of  custom  CMOS  gate  arrays,  providers of high density
programmable logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures and other
providers  of  programmable  logic products.  The Company competes with custom
gate  array  manufacturers  on  the  basis  of  lower  design  costs,  shorter
development  schedules and reduced inventory risks.  The primary attributes of
custom  gate  arrays  are high density, high speed and low production costs in
high  volumes.    The  Company  continues  to develop lower cost architectures
intended  to narrow the gap between current custom gate array production costs
(in  high  volumes) and FPGA production costs.  The Company competes with high
density  programmable logic suppliers on the basis of performance, the ability
to  deliver  complete  solutions  to  customers  and  customer support, taking
advantage  of  the  primary  characteristics  of  flexible,  high  speed
implementation  and  quick  time-to-market  capabilities  of the Company's PLD
product  offerings.    In addition, the Company competes with manufacturers of
other  programmable  logic products on the basis of price, performance, design
and  software  utility.    To  the extent that such efforts to compete are not
successful,  the Company's financial condition and results of operations could
be  materially  adversely  affected.

The  Company  relies upon patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law to
protect  its  intellectual  property.    There  can  be no assurance that such
intellectual  property  rights  can  be successfully asserted in the future or
will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged.  From time to time, third
parties, including competitors of the Company, have asserted exclusive patent,
copyright  and  other  intellectual  property  rights to technologies that are
important  to  the Company.  There can be no assurance that third parties will
not  assert  infringement  claims  against  the  Company  in  the future, that
assertions  by  third parties will not result in costly litigation or that the
Company  would  prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and
infringed  patents  from  third  parties  on  commercially  reasonable  terms.
Litigation,  regardless  of  its outcome, could result in substantial cost and
diversion  of  resources  of  the  Company.    Any infringement claim or other
litigation  against  or  by the Company could materially, adversely affect the
Company's  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

The Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of
its  key  technical,  sales,  marketing  and  management  personnel and on its
ability  to  continue to attract and retain qualified employees.  Particularly
important are those highly skilled design, process and test engineers involved
in  the  manufacture  of existing products and the development of new products
and processes.  The competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of
key employees could have a material, adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.

Sales outside of the United States carry a number of inherent risks, including
risks  of  currency  exchange  fluctuations, government regulation of exports,
tariffs  and  other  potential  trade  barriers,  reduced  protection  for
intellectual  property  rights  in  some countries, the impact of recessionary
environments  in  economies  outside  the  United  States and generally longer
receivable  collection periods.  The Company's business is also subject to the
risks  associated  with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating
specifically  to  the import or export of semiconductor products.  The Company
cannot  predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions
will  be  imposed by the United States or other countries upon the importation
or exportation of the Company's products in the future or what, if any, effect
such  actions  would  have on the Company's financial condition and results of
operations.

In  order  to expand international sales and service, the Company will need to
maintain  and  expand  existing  foreign  operations  or establish new foreign
operations.    This  entails  hiring  additional  personnel and maintaining or
expanding  existing  relationships  with  international distributors and sales
representatives.    This  will  require  significant  management attention and
financial  resources  and  could  adversely  affect  the  Company's  financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.    There can be no assurance that the
Company will be successful in its maintenance or expansion of existing foreign
operations,  in  its establishment of new foreign operations or in its efforts
to  maintain  or  expand  its relationships with international distributors or
sales  representatives.

The  semiconductor  industry has historically been cyclical and subject to, at
various  times,  significant  economic  downturns  characterized by diminished
product  demand,  accelerated  erosion  of  average  selling  prices  and
overcapacity.  The  Company  may  experience  substantial  period-to-period
fluctuations in future operating results due to general semiconductor industry
conditions,  overall  economic  conditions  or  other  factors.

Many  of  the  Company's operations are centered in an area of California that
has been seismically active.  Should there be a major earthquake in this area,
the  Company's  operations  may be disrupted resulting in the inability of the
Company  to  ship  products  in  a timely manner, thereby materially adversely
affecting  the  Company's  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

In  addition,  the  securities  of  many  high  technology  companies  have
historically  been  subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations which may
adversely  affect  the  market  price  of  the  Company's  common  stock.

FINANCIAL  CONDITION,  LIQUIDITY  AND  CAPITAL  RESOURCES

The  Company's  financial  condition at March 31, 1997 remained strong.  Total
current  assets  exceeded  total current liabilities by 6.2 times, compared to
5.2  times  at  March  31,  1996.  Since its inception, the Company has used a
combination  of  equity  and  debt  financing and cash flow from operations to
support  on-going  business  activities,  make acquisitions and investments in
complementary  technologies,  obtain  facilities  and  capital  equipment  and
finance  inventory  and  accounts  receivable.

Total assets have grown from $720.9 million in 1996 to $847.7 million in 1997.
The  percentage  changes  of  selected  balance sheet items from March 1996 to
March  1997  are  shown  below:









     Cash,  Cash  Equivalents  and  Short-term  Investments

Xilinx's  cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased by $47.9
million  in  1997  to  $425.8  million.    The  Company generated cash flow of
approximately  $140 million from operating activities in 1997, offset by $30.3
million of cash used for investing activities, including the net proceeds from
maturity  of  investments,  investments  in  property, plant and equipment and
advances  for wafer purchases.  In addition, the Company used $4.7 million for
financing  activities, of which $32 million was used to acquire Treasury Stock
offset  by $28.3 million in proceeds from sales of common stock under employee
option  and  stock  purchase plans.  At March 31, 1997, cash, cash equivalents
and  short-term  investments  represented  50.2%  of  total  assets.

     Receivables

Receivables  decreased  9.2%  from  $79.5  million at the end of 1996 to $72.2
million  at the end of 1997.  The decrease is primarily due to relatively even
product  shipments  throughout  the  fourth  quarter  of  1997.    Days  sales
outstanding  decreased  from  48  days  in  1996  to  43  days  in  1997.

     Inventories

Inventories  increased 58.9% from $39.2 million at March 1996 to $62.4 million
at  March  1997.    Inventory  levels  at  March 31, 1997 represent 96 days of
inventory,  which  is  higher  than  the Company's objective of 70 to 90 days,
compared  to  69  days at March 31, 1996. The semiconductor industry inventory
correction  contributed  to  the  increase  in  inventory,  as  the  Company's
customers  focused on reducing their existing inventory levels.  Additionally,
inventory  levels  were  impacted  by  improved  yields  and  planned build of
inventory  to  support  the introduction of new product families.  The Company
seeks  to  balance  two  contradictory  objectives  with  regard  to inventory
management.    On  the  one  hand,  the  Company  believes  that its standard,
off-the-shelf  products  should be available for prompt shipment to customers.
Accordingly, it attempts to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various
product,  package  and  speed  configurations  to  meet  estimates of customer
demand.    At  the same time, the Company also wishes to minimize the handling
costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to realize fully
the  opportunities  for  cost reductions associated with manufacturing process
advancements.  The Company continually strives to balance these two objectives
so  as  to  provide  excellent  customer  response  at  a  competitive  cost.

     Advances  for  wafer  purchases

See  discussion  under  'Commitments',  below.

     Property,  Plant  and  Equipment

During  1997,  Xilinx  invested  $26.8  million  in property and equipment, as
compared  to  $60.5  million  in  1996.    During  1997, the Company completed
construction of an $8.5 million facility in Boulder, Colorado and continues to
invest  in  software  development  tools  and  semiconductor  design, test and
manufacturing  equipment  in  each  of  its  manufacturing  locations.  As the
Company's $32.3 million Ireland manufacturing facility was completed in fiscal
1996, capital expenditures in fiscal 1997 were significantly lower than in the
prior  year.

     Current  Liabilities

Current  liabilities  decreased  by  5.2% to $97.3 million at the end of 1997.
The decrease was primarily attributable to a decrease in trade payables due to
the  timing  of  payments  near  year  end.

     Line  of  Credit

The  Company has credit line facilities for up to $46.2 million (see Note 5 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), of which $6.2 million is intended
to  meet  occasional  working  capital  requirements for the Company's Ireland
manufacturing  facility.    At  March  31,  1997  and 1996, no borrowings were
outstanding  under  the  lines  of  credit.

     Long-term  Debt

In  November 1995, the Company issued $250 million in convertible subordinated
notes.    See  Note  5  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.

     Stockholders'  Equity

Stockholders' equity grew by 33.2% in 1997 to $490.7 million.  The increase of
$122.4  million was primarily attributable to $110.4 million in net income and
$45.1  million  related to the issuance of common stock in accordance with the
Company's  stock  plans  and the tax benefit from stock options, offset by the
$32  million  used to acquire 877,500 shares of Treasury Stock.  Stockholders'
equity  as a percentage of total assets was 57.9% for 1997 and 51.1% for 1996.

     Commitments

The Company entered into a series of agreements with UMC pursuant to which the
Company, UMC and other parties formed the USI joint venture for the purpose of
building  and  managing  an  advanced  semiconductor manufacturing facility in
Taiwan.    See  Notes  4  and 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Under  the  terms  of  the  agreement,  the Company invested approximately $34
million  in  fiscal  1996  and  expects  to invest additional amounts totaling
approximately  $102  million,  for a 25% equity interest in the venture.  As a
result  of  its  equity  ownership,  the  Company  has  rights  to  purchase a
percentage  of  the  facility's  wafer  production  at  current market prices.
During  fiscal  1997,  the  Board of Directors of USI voted to delay the wafer
fabrication  facility  construction  schedule.    As  a result, the additional
payments  were  also  delayed  and are now expected to be made in fiscal 1998.
The revised schedule for construction of the facility and the related payments
are  subject  to  further  change  based  on  overall  semiconductor  industry
conditions  and  other  factors.  UMC  has  committed  to and is supplying the
Company  with  wafers  manufactured  in an existing facility until capacity is
available  in  the  new  facility.

In  fiscal  1997,  the Company signed an agreement with Seiko Epson, a primary
wafer  supplier.    See  Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The  agreement provides for an advance to Seiko Epson of up to $200 million to
be  used  in  the construction of a wafer fabrication facility in Japan, which
will  provide access to eight-inch sub-micron wafers.  In conjunction with the
agreement,  $30  million installments were paid in May 1996, November 1996 and
May 1997 (subsequent to fiscal 1997), and further $30 million installments are
scheduled  for November 1, 1997 and February 1, 1998 or upon the start of mass
production, whichever is later.  The final installment for the advance payment
of  $50  million is due on or after the later of April 1, 1998 or the date the
outstanding  balance  of  the advance payment is less than $125 million.  As a
result,  the  maximum outstanding amount of the advance payment at any time is
$175  million.  Repayment  of  this  advance  will  be  in  the  form of wafer
deliveries  expected  to  begin  in the first half of calendar 1998.  Specific
wafer  pricing will be based upon the prices of similar wafers manufactured by
other,  specifically  identified, leading-edge foundry suppliers.  The advance
payment  provision also provides for interest to be paid to the Company in the
form  of  free  wafers.   In addition to the advance payments, the Company may
also  provide  further  funding  to Seiko Epson in the amount of $100 million.
This  additional  funding  would  be  paid  after the final installment of the
advance  and  the  form  of  the additional funding will be negotiated at that
time.

     Employees

During 1997, Xilinx experienced a 6% increase in the number of employees.  The
Company had 1,277 employees at the end of 1997 as compared to 1,201 at the end
of  the  prior  year.


The  Company anticipates that existing sources of liquidity and cash flow from
operations  will  be  sufficient  to  satisfy the Company's cash needs for the
foreseeable  future.   The Company will continue to evaluate opportunities for
investments  to  obtain  additional  wafer  supply  capacity,  procurement  of
additional  capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and
potential  acquisitions  of  businesses,  products  or technologies that would
complement  the  Company's  businesses  and  may  use  available cash or other
sources  of  funding  for  such  purposes.






ITEM  8.          FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA

CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENTS  OF  INCOME
In  thousands  except  per  share  amounts





CONSOLIDATED  BALANCE  SHEETS
In  thousands  except  per  share  amounts







CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENT  OF  CASH  FLOWS
In  thousands




CONSOLIDATED  STATEMENT  OF  STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY
In  thousands






NOTES  TO  CONSOLIDATED  FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS

NOTE 1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS

     Xilinx  designs,  develops  and  markets programmable logic semiconductor
devices and related design software.  The Company's programmable logic product
lines  include  field  programmable gate arrays and complex programmable logic
devices.    The wafers used to manufacture the Company's products are obtained
from  independent  wafer manufacturers, located primarily in Japan and Taiwan.
The  Company  is  dependent  upon  these  manufacturers to produce and deliver
wafers  on  a  timely basis.  The Company is also dependent on subcontractors,
located  in  the  Asia  Pacific  region,  to  provide  semiconductor  assembly
services.    Xilinx  is  a global company with manufacturing facilities in the
United  States  and  Ireland  and  sales  offices  throughout  the world.  The
Company's  products  are  sold  to  customers  in  the  computer,  peripheral,
telecommunications,  networking,  industrial  control,  instrumentation,  high
reliability/military  and  consumer  markets.    The Company derives more than
one-third  of  its  revenues from international sales, primarily in Europe and
Japan.

NOTE  2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND CONCENTRATIONS OF RISK

     Basis  of  presentation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company  and  its  wholly  owned  subsidiaries  after  elimination  of  all
intercompany accounts and transactions.  The Company's fiscal year ends on the
Saturday  nearest  March  31.    For  ease  of presentation, March 31 has been
utilized  as the fiscal year-end for all financial statement captions.  Fiscal
years  1997,  1996  and  1995  each  consisted  of  52  weeks.

     Cash  equivalents  and  investments

Cash  and  cash  equivalents  consists  of  cash  on  deposit  with  banks,
tax-advantaged  municipal  bonds,  and investments in money market instruments
with  insignificant  interest  rate  risk  and  original maturities at date of
acquisition  of  90  days  or  less.    Short-term  investments  consist  of
tax-advantaged  municipal  bonds  and  corporate bonds with maturities greater
than  90  days but less than one year.  Restricted investments consist of U.S.
Treasury  Securities  held  as collateral relating to leases for the Company's
facilities.    See  Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  The
Company  maintains  its  cash,  cash equivalents and short-term investments in
several  financial  instruments  with  various  banks  and  investment banking
institutions.   This diversification of risk is consistent with Company policy
to  maintain  liquidity  and  ensure  the  safety  of  principal.
     Management  classifies  investments  as  available-for-sale  or
held-to-maturity  at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such designation as
of  each  balance  sheet  date.  Securities are classified as held-to-maturity
when  the  Company  has  the  positive  intent  and  the  ability  to hold the
securities  until  maturity.   Held-to-maturity securities are carried at cost
adjusted  for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity.
Such  amortization,  as well as any interest on the securities, is included in
interest income.  Securities not classified as held to maturity are classified
as  available-for-sale.    Available-for-sale  securities  are carried at fair
value  with the unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, included as a separate
component  of stockholders' equity.  Realized gains and losses and declines in
value  judged  to be other-than-temporary on available-for-sale securities are
included  in  other  income.    The fair values for marketable debt and equity
securities  are based on quoted market prices.  The cost of securities matured
or  sold  is  based  on  the  specific  identification  method.

     Inventories

Inventories  are  stated  at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market
(estimated  net  realizable value) and are comprised of the following at March
31,  1997  and  1996:







    Advances for Wafer Purchases

During  fiscal  1995,  the  Company  advanced  $42  million  to  Seiko  Epson
Corporation (Seiko Epson), a primary wafer supplier.  Repayment of this amount
was  in the form of wafer deliveries and was completed during fiscal 1997.  In
fiscal 1997, the Company signed an additional agreement with Seiko Epson.  See
Note  6  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.

     Property,  Plant  and  Equipment

Property,  plant  and  equipment are stated at cost.  Depreciation is computed
for  financial  reporting  purposes  using  the  straight-line method over the
estimated  useful  lives  of  the assets of three to five years for machinery,
equipment,  furniture  and  fixtures  and  up  to  thirty years for buildings.

     Revenue  Recognition

Net revenues are stated net of discounts and allowances.  Revenue from product
sales  direct  to  customers  and foreign distributors is generally recognized
upon shipment.  However, the Company defers the recognition of revenue and the
related  cost  of  revenue  on  shipments  to  domestic distributors that have
certain  rights  of  return  and price protection privileges on unsold product
until  the  product  is  sold  by  the  distributor.

     Foreign  currency  translation

The  US  dollar  is  the  functional  currency  for  the  Company's  Ireland
manufacturing  facility.    Assets and liabilities that are not denominated in
the  functional  currency  are  remeasured  into US dollars, and the resulting
gains  or  losses  are included in net income.  The functional currency is the
local  currency  for each of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries.  Assets
and  liabilities are translated at month-end exchange rates, and statements of
income are translated at the average exchange rates during the year.  Exchange
gains  or  losses  arising  from  translation  of foreign currency denominated
assets  and  liabilities  are included as a component of stockholders' equity.
Prior  to fiscal 1997, translation adjustments were not material and therefore
were  not  disclosed  as  a  separate  component  of  stockholders'  equity.

     Derivative  financial  instruments

As  part of its ongoing asset and liability management activities, the Company
enters  into  certain  derivative  financial  arrangements to reduce financial
market  risks.    The  Company  does  not  enter  into  derivative  financial
instruments  for  trading  purposes.    See  Note  5  of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements.

     Employee  stock  plans

The Company accounts for its stock option and employee stock purchase plans in
accordance with provisions of the Accounting Principles Board's Opinion No. 25
(APB  25),  "Accounting  for  Stock  Issued  to  Employees."

     Use  of  estimates

The  preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting  principles  requires  management to make estimates and assumptions
that  affect  the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent  liabilities  at  the  date  of  the  financial  statements and the
reported  amounts  of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Such
estimates  relate  to  the useful lives of fixed assets and intangible assets,
allowances  for  doubtful  accounts  and customer returns, inventory reserves,
potential  reserves relating to litigation matters and other reserves.  Actual
results  may differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material
to  the  financial  statements.

     Net  income  per  share

Net  income  per  common  and  common  equivalent  share is computed using the
weighted  average  number  of  common  and  dilutive  common equivalent shares
outstanding  during  the period.  Dilutive common equivalent shares consist of
stock  options  (using the treasury stock method).  Fully diluted earnings per
share  is  computed  using  the  weighted  average  common and dilutive common
equivalent shares outstanding, plus other dilutive shares which are not common
equivalent  shares.    The  effect  of  the convertible subordinated notes was
antidilutive  in  the  calculation of fully diluted earnings per share for the
periods  presented. In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
issued  Statement  No.  128,  Earnings  per  Share,  which the Company will be
required  to adopt during the quarter ending December 31, 1997.  At that time,
the  Company  will  be required to change the method currently used to compute
net  income  per share and to restate all prior periods.  The new requirements
will include a calculation of "basic" net income per share, which will exclude
the dilutive effect of stock options.  The calculation of basic net income per
share  for fiscal years 1997, 1996 and 1995 results in net income per share of
$1.52,  $1.43  and  $.85, respectively.  A calculation of "diluted" net income
per share will also be required.  However, this calculation is not expected to
differ  materially  from  the actual net income per share amounts reported for
the  years  presented.

     Concentrations  of  credit  risk

The  Company  believes  that  the  concentration  of  credit risk in its trade
receivables  with  respect  to  the  high-technology industry is substantially
mitigated  by  the  Company's  credit  evaluation  process,  relatively  short
collection  terms,  distributor agreements, and the geographical dispersion of
sales.  The Company generally does not require collateral. Bad debt write-offs
have  been  insignificant  for  all  years  presented.

     Concentration  of  other  risks

The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized by rapid technological change,
intense  competitive  pressure  and  cyclical  market patterns.  The Company's
results  of  operations  are  affected by a wide variety of factors, including
general  economic  conditions,  conditions  relating  to technology companies,
conditions  specific  to  the  semiconductor  industry,  decreases  in average
selling  prices  over  the  life  of any particular product, the timing of new
product  introductions  (by  the  Company,  its  competitors  and others), the
ability  to  manufacture  in  a timely manner sufficient quantities of a given
product,  the  timely  implementation  of  new manufacturing technologies, the
ability  to  safeguard patents and intellectual property from competitors, and
the  impact  of  new  technologies resulting in rapid escalation of demand for
some products in the face of equally steep decline in demand for others.  As a
result,  the  Company may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations
in  future  operating  results  due  to  the  factors mentioned above or other
factors.



NOTE  3.  ACQUISITION

In  April  1995, the Company acquired NeoCAD, Inc. (NeoCAD), a private company
engaged  in the design, development and sale of FPGA software design tools for
programmable  electronic  technologies,  for  $35  million  in  cash.    The
transaction  was  treated  as a purchase for accounting purposes; accordingly,
the  purchase  price  was  allocated  to  the  assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on their estimated fair values.  NeoCAD's financial results from
the  date  of acquisition are included in the Company's consolidated financial
results.  The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of liabilities
assumed,  net  of  tangible  assets  acquired,  was  allocated  to  in-process
technology  ($19.4  million),  developed  technology  ($15.7  million) and the
assembled  workforce  ($0.7 million).  The amount of in-process technology was
written-off  as  a  non-recurring  item  during  fiscal  1996.   The developed
technology and assembled workforce assets are being amortized over six and two
years,  respectively.    In  fiscal 1997, the Company recorded amortization of
$2.6  million  and  $0.4  million  relating  to  the  developed technology and
assembled  workforce assets, respectively, for a total amortization to date of
$5.2  million  and  $.7  million,  respectively.

NOTE  4.  JOINT  VENTURE

The  Company, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and other parties have
entered  into  a  joint  venture  to construct a wafer fabrication facility in
Taiwan,  known as United Silicon Inc. (USI).  The Company has agreed to invest
a total of 3.75 billion New Taiwan dollars (approximately $136 million), which
will  result  in a 25% equity ownership in  the joint venture and the right to
receive 31.25% of the wafer capacity from this facility.  In January 1996, the
Company  invested 937.5 million New Taiwan dollars (approximately $34 million)
in  the joint venture.  UMC has committed to and is supplying the Company with
wafers manufactured in an existing facility until capacity is available in the
new  facility.    The USI joint venture is accounted for by the equity method.
See  further  discussion  in  Note  6  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.

NOTE  5.  FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS

Cash and Investments  The following is a summary of available-for-sale 
securities:




All  investments classified as "available-for-sale securities" have maturities
due  in  one  year  or  less.    Realized  gains  or  losses  from  sales  of
available-for-sale  securities  were  immaterial  for  all  periods presented.
     Held-to-maturity  securities  represent  investments  in  US  Treasury
Securities  for  which amortized cost equals estimated fair value at March 31,
1997  and  March  31,  1996.    Held-to-maturity  securities relate to certain
collateral  requirements  for  lease  agreements associated with the Company's
corporate  facilities and have maturities due in one year or less.  See Note 6
of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.

     Derivatives

The  Company  periodically enters into currency forward or option contracts to
minimize  foreign  exchange risk relating to the Company's purchase of wafers,
some  of  which  are denominated in yen.  At March 31, 1997, commitments under
option  contracts  to  purchase  yen  in  fiscal  1998 were outstanding in the
aggregate  amount  of  $2.8  million.    These  contracts are accounted for as
identifiable  hedges  against  wafer  purchases.  Realized gains or losses are
recognized  upon  maturity of the contracts and are included in cost of sales.
At  March  31,  1997,  the fair value of these option contracts was immaterial
based  on  market  exchange  rates.  The maturities on these contracts is less
than  twelve  months.
     The  Company  has  entered  into  foreign  exchange  forward contracts to
minimize  the  impact of future exchange fluctuations on the US dollar cost of
investing  in  the  USI  joint  venture.  The contracts require the Company to
exchange  US  dollars  for New Taiwan dollars and mature within one year.  The
contracts  are  accounted  for  as a hedge of an identifiable foreign currency
commitment.   Realized gains or losses will be recognized upon maturity of the
contracts  and will be included in the USI joint venture investment.  At March
31,  1997, the outstanding foreign exchange contracts related to the USI joint
venture  were approximately $102 million and the fair value of these contracts
was  immaterial,  based  on  market  exchange  rates.
     The Company has entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a third
party  in  order to reduce risk related to movements in interest rates.  Under
the  agreement,  which  was  effective  starting in May 1996 and terminates in
November  1998,  the  Company  effectively  converted  the fixed rate interest
payments  related  to  $125  million of the Company's convertible subordinated
notes  to  variable  rate  interest  payments  without  the  exchange  of  the
underlying  principal  amounts.    The  Company  receives  fixed interest rate
payments  (equal  to  5.935%)  from  the  third party and is obligated to make
variable  rate  payments  (equal  to  the three month LIBOR rate) to the third
party  during  the term of the agreement.  The net amount of interest payments
received from the third party and interest payments made by the Company to the
third  party  is included in interest expense.  The fair value of the interest
rate  swap  was  immaterial  based  on  market  exchange  rates.
     During  1995,  the  Company  completed  a  reverse repurchase transaction
relating  to  $350  million  of U.S. Treasury Securities.  The transaction was
entered  into  with  the  intent  of  generating  net  interest  income  in an
increasing  interest  rate environment and capital gains that could be used to
offset  previously  incurred capital losses relating to the non-recurring $2.5
million  write-off  of  the  investment in Star Semiconductor.  As a result of
this  transaction, the Company recorded approximately $9.7 million of interest
expense,  $4.7  million  of  interest  income and $4.8 million of bond premium
amortization  in  1995.    Although the Company has generally invested in more
conventional  investments,  such as municipal bonds, the Company believes that
the  short  sale  of  U.S.  Treasury  Securities  met the Company's investment
objectives  in  1995.  Future investment strategies will be made in accordance
with  investment policies designed to preserve and enhance corporate assets as
such  strategies  may  be  adopted from time to time by the Company's Board of
Directors.

     Long-Term  Debt  and  Lines  of  Credit

In  November  1995,  the Company completed a private placement of $250 million
aggregate  principal  convertible  subordinated  notes  under Rule 144A of the
Securities  Act  of 1933.  The notes, which mature in 2002, are convertible at
the option of the note holders into the Company's common stock at a conversion
price  of  $51 per share, subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain
events.    The  conversion price represented a 24.77% premium over the closing
price  of  the  Company's  stock  on  November  7,  1995.  Interest is payable
semi-annually  at  5.25% per annum.  At any time on or after November 4, 1997,
the notes are redeemable at the option of the Company at an initial redemption
price  of  103.75%  of  the principal amount, except that prior to November 3,
1998,  the  notes are not redeemable unless the closing price of the Company's
common  stock  has exceeded $71.40 (40% premium over the conversion price) per
share  for  twenty  trading days within a period of thirty consecutive trading
days.    Redemption  prices  as a percentage of the principal amount are 103%,
102.25%, 101.50% and 100.75% in the years beginning November 1, 1998, November
1,  1999,  November 1, 2000 and November 1, 2001, respectively.  Debt issuance
costs of $6.1 million incurred in conjunction with issuance of the convertible
subordinated  notes are being amortized over the seven year life of the notes.
In  1997, the Company recorded debt issuance cost amortization of $.9 million.
At  March  31,  1997, the fair value of the convertible subordinated notes was
approximately  $291  million  based  on quoted market prices.  The Company has
reserved  4,901,961  shares of common stock for the conversion of these notes.
     The  Company  has  $40  million available under a multicurrency revolving
credit  line  agreement  which  expires  in March 1998.  Under this agreement,
borrowings bear interest at the bank's reference rate or 0.75% over the bank's
interbank  market  rate depending on the currency borrowed.  Additionally, the
Company's  Ireland  manufacturing  facility has $6.2 million available under a
multicurrency  credit  line  which  expires  in  November  1997.    Under this
agreement,  borrowings  bear interest at 0.79% over the bank's prime rate.  At
March  31, 1997, no borrowings were outstanding under either credit line.  The
agreements  require  the Company to comply with certain covenants and maintain
certain  financial  ratios.    The  agreements  prohibit  the  payment of cash
dividends  without  prior  bank  approval.

NOTE 6. COMMITMENTS

The Company leases its manufacturing and office facilities under operating
leases that expire at various dates through December 2014.  Lease agreements
for the Company's corporate facilities contain payment provisions which allow
for changes in rental amounts based upon interest rate changes.  The
approximate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are as
follows:






       Rent  expense  for the years ended March 31, 1997, 1996  and  1995  was
approximately  $4.5  million,  $4.3  million  and  $4  million,  respectively.
       The Company has entered into lease agreements relating to its corporate
facilities  which  would  allow  the  Company to purchase the facilities on or
before the end of the lease term in December 1999.  If at the end of the lease
term the Company does not purchase the property under lease or arrange a third
party  purchase,  then  the  Company  would  be  obligated to the lessor for a
guarantee  payment  equal  to a specified percentage of the Company's purchase
price for the property.  The Company would also be obligated to the lessor for
all  or  some  portion  of this amount if the price paid by the third party is
below  a specified percentage of the Company's purchase price.  The Company is
also  required to comply with certain covenants and maintain certain financial
ratios.    As  of  March  31,  1997,  the  total  amount related to the leased
facilities  for  which  the  Company  is contingently liable is $39.8 million.
Under  the  terms  of  the  agreements,  the  Company  is required to maintain
collateral  (restricted  investments)  of approximately $36 million during the
lease  term.
        In  fiscal  1997, the  Company signed an agreement with Seiko Epson, a
primary  wafer supplier.  The agreement provides for an advance to Seiko Epson
of  up  to  $200 million to be used in the construction of a wafer fabrication
facility  in Japan, which will provide access to eight-inch sub-micron wafers.
In  conjunction  with the agreement, $30 million installments were paid in May
1996,  November 1996 and May 1997 (subsequent to fiscal 1997), and further $30
million  installments  are scheduled for November 1, 1997 and February 1, 1998
or  upon  the  start  of  mass  production,  whichever  is  later.   The final
installment  for  the  advance  payment  of $50 million is due on or after the
later  of  April  1,  1998  or the date the outstanding balance of the advance
payment  is  less  than  $125  million.   As a result, the maximum outstanding
amount  of  the advance payment at any time is $175 million. Repayment of this
advance will be in the form of wafer deliveries expected to begin in the first
half  of  calendar 1998.  Specific wafer pricing will be based upon the prices
of similar wafers manufactured by other, specifically identified, leading-edge
foundry  suppliers.   The advance payment provision also provides for interest
to  be  paid  to  the  Company in the form of free wafers.  In addition to the
advance  payments, the Company may also provide further funding to Seiko Epson
in  the  amount  of $100 million.  This additional funding would be paid after
the  final  installment  of the advance and the form of the additional funding
will  be  negotiated  at  that  time.
     In  addition,  the  Company  expects  to invest additional amounts, which
total 2.8 billion New Taiwan dollars (approximately  $102 million), in the USI
joint  venture  discussed  in  Note  4  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial
Statements.   During fiscal 1997, the Board of Directors of USI voted to delay
the  wafer  fabrication  facility  construction  schedule.    As a result, the
additional  payments  were  also  delayed  and  are now expected to be made in
fiscal  1998.    The  revised  timing  of construction of the facility and the
related  payments are subject to further change based on overall semiconductor
industry  conditions  and  other  factors.

NOTE 7. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

The  Company's Certificate of Incorporation provides for 200 million shares of
common  stock  and  2  million  shares  of  undesignated  preferred  stock.

     Treasury  Stock

The Company authorized a stock buyback program in September 1996 whereby up to
2  million  shares  of the Company's common stock may be purchased in the open
market  from  time  to  time  as  market and business conditions warrant.  The
Company has reissued Treasury Shares repurchased in response to Employee Stock
Option  exercises  and  Employee  Qualified  Stock Purchase Plan requirements.
During fiscal 1997, the Company repurchased 877,500 shares of common stock for
$32  million,  of  which  837,000  shares  were  reissued.

     Stock  Split

In  July  1995,  the Company's stockholders approved a 3-for-1 stock split, in
the  form  of  a  200%  stock dividend, payable to stockholders of record on a
specified  date.    Shares,  per share amounts, common stock at par value, and
additional  paid  in capital have been restated to reflect the stock split for
all  periods  presented.

     Stockholder  Rights  Plan

In  October 1991, the Company adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a
dividend  distribution of one common stock purchase right for each outstanding
share  of  common  stock.    The  rights  become  exercisable  based  upon the
occurrence  of  certain  conditions  including  acquisitions of Company stock,
tender or exchange offers and certain business combination transactions of the
Company.  In the event one of the conditions is triggered, each right entitles
the  registered  holder  to purchase a number of shares of common stock of the
Company  or,  under  limited  circumstances,  of the acquirer.  The rights are
redeemable  at  the  Company's  option, under certain conditions, for $.01 per
right  and  expire  on  October  4,  2001.

     Employee  Stock  Option  Plan

The Company adopted the 1988 Stock Option Plan (the Option Plan) under which a
total  of  36,081,000  common  shares  have  been  reserved  for  issuance  to
employees,  directors,  and  consultants  of  the  Company,  after shareholder
approval  of  3,300,000  additional  shares in July 1996.  Options to purchase
shares of the Company's common stock under the Option Plan are granted at 100%
of  the  fair market value of the stock on the date of grantOptions granted to
date  expire  ten years from date of grant and generally vest at varying rates
over  five  years.

A summary of the Company's Option Plan activity, and related information,
follows:






The following table summarizes information relating to options outstanding and
exercisable  under  the  Option  Plan  at  March  31,  1997:




At March 31, 1996, 4.6 million options were exercisable.

         Employee  Qualified  Stock  Purchase  Plan

Under  the  Company's  1990  Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (the Stock
Purchase  Plan),  qualified  employees  can  elect to have up to 15 percent of
their  annual  earnings withheld to purchase the Company's common stock at the
end  of  six-month enrollment periods.  The purchase price of the stock is 85%
of  the  lower  of  the  fair market value at the beginning of the twenty-four
month offering period or at the end of each six month purchase period.  Almost
all employees are eligible to participate.  Of the 3,385,000 shares authorized
to  be issued under this plan, including the 460,000 shares that were approved
by  shareholders  in  July 1996, 535,360 and 537,451 shares were issued during
1997 and 1996, respectively, and 176,690 shares were available for issuance at
March  31,  1997.

         Stock-Based  Compensation

As  permitted  under  FASB  Statement  No.  123,  "Accounting  for Stock-Based
Compensation"  (FASB  123),  the  Company  has  elected  to continue to follow
Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees"  (APB  25)  and  related  Interpretations  in  accounting  for  its
stock-based  awards  to  employees.    Under  APB  25,  the  Company generally
recognizes  no  compensation  expense  with  respect  to  such  awards.
Pro  forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required
by FASB 123 and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for awards
to  employees  under  the  fair  value  method of FASB 123.  The fair value of
options  and  stock  purchase  plan  rights  under  the  Option Plan and Stock
Purchase  Plan  was  estimated as of the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option  pricing  model.   The Black-Scholes model was originally developed for
use  in  estimating  the  fair  value  of traded options which have no vesting
restrictions and are fully transferable.  In addition, option valuation models
require  the  input  of highly subjective assumptions including expected stock
price  volatility.    Because  the  Company's  options and stock purchase plan
rights  have  characteristics  significantly  different  from  those of traded
options,  and  because  changes  in  the  subjective  input  assumptions  can
materially  affect  the  fair  value  estimate,  the  existing  models,  in
management's  opinion, do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of
the  fair  value  of  its  stock-based awards to employees.  The fair value of
options  and  stock purchase plan rights granted in fiscal years 1997 and 1996
was  estimated  at  the  date  of grant assuming no expected dividends and the
following  weighted  average  assumptions.





For  purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of options is
amortized  against  pro  forma  net  income  over the options' vesting period.
Because FASB 123 is applicable only to the Company's awards granted subsequent
to  March  31,  1995,  its  pro forma effect will not be fully reflected until
approximately  fiscal  2000.  Had the Company accounted for stock-based awards
to  employees  under  FASB 123, the Company's net income would have been $87.4
million  and  $86.2 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively, and net income per
share  would  have  been  $1.12  and  $1.10  in  1997  and 1996, respectively.

Calculated  under  FASB  123,  the  weighted-average fair value of the options
granted  during  1997  and 1996 was $15.91 and $14.41 per share, respectively.
The  weighted-average  fair    value of employee stock purchase rights granted
under  the Stock Purchase Plan during 1997 and 1996 were $14.47 and $16.68 per
share,  respectively.

NOTE 8. INCOME TAXES

The provision for taxes on income consists of:






     The tax benefits associated with the  disqualifying dispositions of stock
options  or employee stock purchase plan shares reduce taxes currently payable
by  $16.7  million,  $7.9  million  and $3.5 million for 1997, 1996, and 1995,
respectively.    Such benefits are credited to additional paid-in capital when
realized.    Pretax income from foreign operations was $36.1 million and $11.5
million  for  fiscal  years 1997 and 1996 while fiscal year 1995 had a loss of
$.2  million.    Unremitted  foreign  earnings  that  are  considered  to  be
permanently  invested outside the United States and on which no deferred taxes
have  been provided, accumulated to approximately $14.8 million.  The residual
US  tax  liability, if such amounts were remitted, would be approximately $3.7
million.
     The  provision  for  income  taxes  reconciles  to the amount obtained by 
applying the  Federal statutory income tax rate to income before provision for 
taxes as follows:








The major components of deferred tax assets and liabilities consist of the
following:








NOTE 9. INDUSTRY AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

The  Company  operates  in  one single industry segment comprising the design,
development  and marketing of programmable logic semiconductor devices and the
related  design  software.
     During  fiscal  1996,  the  Company  began  operations  in  its  Ireland
manufacturing  facility.    Geographic information for fiscal 1997 and 1996 is
presented  in  the tables below.  Foreign operations prior to fiscal 1996 were
not  material.






Export revenues consisting of sales from the US to non-affiliated customers in
certain  geographic  areas  were  as  follows:







     No  single end customer accounted for more than 5% of revenues in 1997 or
6% of revenues in 1996 or 1995.  Approximately 15%, 13% and 14% of net product
revenues were made through the Company's largest domestic distributor in 1997,
1996  and  1995, respectively.  Another domestic distributor accounted for 10%
of  net  product  revenues  in  1996  and  1995.

NOTE  10.  LITIGATION

     On  June  7,  1993,  the  Company  filed  suit against Altera Corporation
(Altera)  in  the  United  States  District Court for the Northern District of
California  for  infringement  of  certain  of  the  Company's  patents.
Subsequently,  Altera  filed suit against the Company alleging that certain of
the  Company's  products  infringe certain Altera patents.  Fact discovery has
been  completed  in  both  cases.     The cases have been consolidated and are
currently  scheduled  for  trial  on  September  15,  1997.
     On April 20, 1995, Altera filed an additional suit against the Company in
Federal  District  Court in Delaware alleging that the Company's XC5000 family
infringes  an  Altera  patent.  The Company answered the Delaware suit denying
that  the  XC5000  family  infringes  the  patent  in  suit, asserting certain
affirmative  defenses  and  counterclaiming  that  the  Altera Max 9000 family
infringes certain of the Company's patents.  The Delaware suit was transferred
to  the  United  States District Court for the Northern District of California
and  is  also  before  the  same  judge.
     The  ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be determined at this time.
Management  believes  that  it  has meritorious defenses to such claims and is
defending  them  vigorously, and has not recorded a provision for the ultimate
outcome  of  these  matters  in  its financial statements.  The foregoing is a
forward  looking  statement subject to risks and uncertainties, and the future
outcome  could differ materially due to the uncertain nature of the litigation
with  Altera  and  because  the  lawsuits  are  still  in the pre-trial stage.
     In  addition,  in the normal course of business, the Company receives and
makes  inquiries  with  regard  to possible patent infringement.  Where deemed
advisable,  the  Company may seek or extend licenses or negotiate settlements.
Outcomes  of  such  negotiations may not be determinable at any point in time;
however,  management  does not believe that such licenses or settlements will,
individually  or  in  the  aggregate,  have  a  material adverse effect on the
Company's  financial  position  or  results  of  operations.

NOTE  11.  WRITE-OFF  OF  DISCONTINUED  PRODUCT  FAMILY

During  fiscal  1997,  the  Company discontinued the XC8100 family of one-time
programmable  antifuse  devices.    As a result, the Company recorded a pretax
charge  against  earnings of $5 million.  This charge primarily related to the
write-off  of  inventory  and  for  termination  charges  related  to purchase
commitments  to  foundry  partners  for  work-in-process  wafers which had not
completed  the  manufacturing  process.



REPORT  OF  ERNST  &  YOUNG  LLP,  INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS


The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
Xilinx,  Inc.

We  have  audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Xilinx, Inc.
as  of  March  31,  1997  and 1996, and the related consolidated statements of
income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended March 31, 1997.  Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a)(2).  These financial statements and
schedule  are  the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.    Our
responsibility  is  to  express  an  opinion on these financial statements and
schedule  based  on  our  audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted auditing
standards.    Those  standards  require  that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting  the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant
estimates  made  by  management,  as  well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for  our  opinion.

In  our  opinion,  the  consolidated  financial  statements  referred to above
present  fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of  Xilinx,  Inc.  at March 31, 1997 and 1996, and the consolidated results of
its  operations  and  its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended  March  31,  1997,  in  conformity  with  generally  accepted accounting
principles.  Also,  in  our opinion, the related financial statement schedule,
when  considered  in  relation  to  the  basic financial statements taken as a
whole,  presents  fairly  in  all  material respects the information set forth
therein.





                                                        /s/  Ernst & Young LLP




San  Jose,  California
April  23,  1997


                         Supplementary Financial Data



 (In thousands, except per share amounts)

QUARTERLY DATA (UNAUDITED)






After write-off of discontinued product family of $5 million and $0.04 per
share net of tax.





ITEM 9.        CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE

Not  applicable.



                                   PART III
                                   --------


Certain  information  required by Part III is omitted from this Report in that
the  Registrant  will file a definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation
14A  (the Proxy Statement) not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal
year  covered  by  this  Report,  and  certain information included therein is
incorporated  herein by reference.  Only those sections of the Proxy Statement
which  specifically  address  the  items  set forth herein are incorporated by
reference.    Such  incorporation  does not include the Compensation Committee
Report  or  the  Performance  Graph  included  in  the  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  10.   DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE REGISTRANT

The  information  concerning  the Company's directors required by this Item is
incorporated  by  reference  to  the  Company's  Proxy  Statement.

The  information  concerning the Company's executive officers required by this
Item  is  incorporated  by  reference to the section in Item 1 hereof entitled
"Executive  Officers  of  the  Registrant".

ITEM  11.   EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

The  information  required  by  this  Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The  information  required  by  this  Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  13.   CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

The  information  required  by  this  Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.


                                    PART IV
                                    -------


ITEM 14.       EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)      (1)    The Financial Statements required by  Item 14 (a) are filed as
                part  of  this  annual  report.

         (2)    The  Financial  Statement  Schedule required by Item 14 (a) is
                filed  as  part  of  this  annual  report.

Schedules not filed have been omitted because they are not applicable, are not
required  or  the  information required to be set forth therein is included in
the  financial  statements  or  notes  thereto.

         (3)    The  exhibits listed below in (c) are filed or incorporated by
                reference  as  part  of  this  annual  report.

(b)        Reports on Form 8-K.   No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the
           -------------------
           fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  1997.

(c)        Exhibits.
           --------





(1)  Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 
    (File No. 33-34568) which was declared effective June 11, 1990.

(2)  Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
    fiscal year ended March 30, 1991.

(3)  Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1 
    (File No. 33-43793) effective November 26, 1991.

(4)  Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
    fiscal year ended April 3, 1993.

(5)  Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on 
    April 18, 1995.

(6)  Confidential treatment requested as to certain portions of these exhibits.

(7)  Filed as an exhibit to the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
    fiscal year ended April 1, 1995.

(8)  Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
    the quarter ended September 30, 1995.

(9) Filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
    fiscal year ended March 30, 1996.





                                  SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934, the Registrant, has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed
on  its  behalf  by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of
San  Jose,  State  of  California,  on  the  18th  day  of  June,  1997.

                                   XILINX,  INC.





                                   By: /s/  Willem P. Roelandts
                                   ----------------------------

                                   Willem P. Roelandts,
                                   President and Chief Executive Officer




