
10-K




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark  One)
[  X ]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of  1934  for  the  fiscal  year  ended  April  3,  1999  or
[    ]  Transition  report  pursuant  to  section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange  Act  of  1934

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER   0-18548


                                    XILINX, INC.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                                    DELAWARE
          (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

                                   77-0188631
                      (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

                   2100 LOGIC DRIVE, SAN JOSE, CA       95124
              (Address of principal executive offices, including Zip Code)

                                 (408) 559-7778
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                       COMMON STOCK,       $.01 PAR VALUE

                               (Title  of  Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the  preceding  12  months  (or  for such shorter period that the registrant was
required  to  file  such reports), and (2) has been subject to such requirements
for  the  past  90  days.

                       YES   [ X ]             NO   [   ]

Indicate  by  check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of  Regulation  S-K  is  not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best  of  the  registrant's  knowledge,  in  definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated  by  reference  in  Part  III  of this Form 10-K or any
amendment  to  this  Form  10-K.  [  X  ]

The  aggregate  market  value  of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant,  based  upon  the  closing sale price of the Common Stock on June 9,
1999 as reported on the NASDAQ National Market was approximately $6,243,143,000.
Shares  of  Common Stock held by each executive officer and director and by each
person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in
that  such  persons  may  be deemed affiliates.  This determination of affiliate
status  is  not  necessarily  a  conclusive  determination  for  other purposes.

At  June  9,  1999,  the  registrant  had  156,988,000  shares  of  Common Stock
outstanding.


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Parts  of  the  Proxy  Statement  for  the  Registrant's  1999 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders  are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K Report (Part III).



                                     PART I
                                     ------

ITEM  1.     BUSINESS

Items  1  and  3  of this 10-K contain forward-looking statements concerning the
Company's  development efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and
litigation.  These statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties including
those  discussed  throughout  this  document as well as under "Factors Affecting
Future  Operating  Results"  in  Item  7.

GENERAL

Xilinx,  Inc.  (Xilinx  or  the  Company) designs, develops and markets complete
programmable  logic  solutions,  including  advanced  integrated circuits (ICs),
software  design  tools, predefined system functions delivered as cores of logic
and  field engineering support.  The Company's programmable logic devices (PLDs)
include  field  programmable  gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic
devices  (CPLDs).  These  components  are  standard  ICs  programmed by Xilinx's
customers  to  perform  desired  logic  operations. Xilinx also markets HardWire
devices,  which are specifically programmed during the manufacturing process and
functionally  equivalent  to  programmed  FPGAs.  The  Company's  products  are
designed  to  provide  high  integration and quick time-to-market for electronic
equipment  manufacturers  in  the  computer,  peripheral,  telecommunications,
networking,  industrial control, instrumentation, high-reliability/military, and
consumer  markets.

Competitive  pressures  require  manufacturers  of  electronic  systems to bring
increasingly  complex  products  to  market  rapidly.  Customer requirements for
improved  functionality,  performance,  reliability  and  lower  cost  are often
addressed  through  the  use of components that integrate ever larger numbers of
logic  gates  onto  a  single  integrated circuit because such integration often
results  in  greater  speed, smaller die size, lower power consumption and lower
costs.  However,  while  global  competition  is  increasing the demand for more
complex  products,  it is also shortening product life cycles and requiring more
frequent  product  enhancements.

Xilinx  provides  programmable  logic  solutions, which combine the high density
typically  associated with custom gate arrays with the time to market advantages
of  programmable  logic and the availability of a standard product.  The Company
offers  a broad product line of PLDs, which serve a wide variety of applications
requiring  high levels of integration, competitive speed and acceptable pricing.
In many of these applications where time to market is important, customer demand
is  unpredictable  and  frequent  design  modifications  are  necessary,  the
flexibility achieved through the products' programmability features is integral.
Xilinx  CPLDs  complement  the  Company's  FPGA  products  and contribute to the
Company's  efforts  to  offer  comprehensive programmable logic solutions.  With
FPGAs,  which have the advantages of higher density and lower power consumption,
and  CPLDs,  which  are typically faster and have lower densities, the Company's
products  enable  electronic  equipment  manufacturers  to  rapidly  bring their
products  to  volume  production.

The  Xilinx  software strategy is to deliver an integrated design solution for a
broad  customer  base ranging from customers who are not familiar with designing
systems  using  PLDs to the most sophisticated customers accustomed to designing
with  high  density,  custom gate arrays.  The objective is to deliver strategic
software  advantages that combine ease of use with design flexibility, effective
silicon  utilization  and  leadership  performance.

System  designers  use  Xilinx  proprietary  software design tools together with
industry standard electronic design automation (EDA) tools and predefined system
functions  delivered  as  cores of logic to design, develop and implement Xilinx
programmable  logic  applications.  Designers  define the logic functions of the
circuit and revise such functions as necessary.  Programmable logic can often be
designed  and  verified in a few days, as opposed to several weeks or months for
gate  arrays,  which  are  customized  devices  that  are  defined  during  the
manufacturing  process.  Moreover,  programmable  logic  design  changes  can
typically  be  implemented  in  as little as a few hours, as compared to several
weeks for a custom gate array.  In addition, significant savings result from the
elimination  of  non-recurring  engineering  costs and the reduction of expenses
associated with the redesign and testing of custom gate arrays.  By reducing the
cost  and  scheduling  risks  of  design iterations, PLDs allow greater designer
creativity,  including  the consideration of design alternatives that often lead
to  product  improvements.  Further,  since  PLDs  are  standard  products  and
production  quantities are readily available, exposure to obsolete inventory can
be  significantly  reduced.

Xilinx  was  organized  in  California in February 1984 and in November 1985 was
reorganized to incorporate its research and development limited partnership.  In
April  1990,  the  Company  reincorporated in Delaware.  The Company's corporate
facilities  and  executive  offices  are  located at 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose,
California  95124  and  its  website  is  www.xilinx.com.

The  Company's  fiscal  year ends on the Saturday nearest March 31.  For ease of
presentation,  March  31  has  been  utilized  as  the  fiscal  year-end for all
financial  statement  captions.  Fiscal 1999 ended on April 3, 1999 while fiscal
1998  and  1997  ended  on  March  28,  1998  and  March 29, 1997, respectively.

PRODUCTS

The  timely introduction of new products which address customer requirements and
compete  effectively  on  the basis of price, functionality and performance is a
significant  factor  in the future success of the Company's business.  Delays in
developing  new  products  with  anticipated technological advances or delays in
commencing  volume shipments of new products could have an adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, there can
be  no  assurance that such products, if introduced, will gain market acceptance
or respond effectively to new technological changes or new product introductions
by  other  companies.

     Programmable  Logic  Devices

The  Company's  PLD  products  include  both  FPGA  and CPLD product lines.  All
product  offerings  are  currently  classified  into  four categories.  The Base
products  consist  of  the  Company's mature product families that are currently
manufactured  on  technology  greater than 0.5 micron; this includes the XC2000,
XC3000, XC3100, XC4000 and XC7000 families.  Mainstream products  are  currently
manufactured  on 0.5 micron technology and include the XC4000E, XC4000EX, XC5200
and  XC9500  product  lines. Support products include serial proms, HardWire and
software.

Advanced products include the Company's newest technologies manufactured on 0.35
micron  and  smaller,  which  include  the  XC4000XL/XLA, XC4000XV, XC9500XL/XV,
Spartan,  Spartan  XL  and  Virtex  product  lines.

The XC4000XL family is the industry's first 3.3 volt FPGA family manufactured on
0.35 micron technology.  The family has 11 members shipping in volume ranging in
density from 2,000 to 180,000 system gates.  The XC4000XLA family expands on the
XC4000XL  architecture  with  reduced power consumption and improved performance
making  it  the industry's highest performance 3.3 volt FPGA family.  The family
has  8  members  shipping  in  volume  ranging in density from 30,000 to 180,000
system  gates.  The XC4000XV is a 2.5 volt FPGA family that utilizes 0.25 micron
technology.  The  family  has  4  members  with up to 500,000 system gates.  The
XC9500XL  family  utilizes  a Flash-based CPLD architecture and offers in-system
programmability.  This family delivers high speeds, while giving the flexibility
of an enhanced, customer-proven pin-locking architecture and direct interface to
both  3.3  and  5.0 volt systems.  The XC9500XV is the industry's first 2.5 volt
CPLD family with significantly reduced power consumption.  The Spartan Series of
FPGAs  is  the  Company's first product line that is price competitive with high
volume  application-specific  integrated  circuits  (ASICs).  Derived  from  the
XC4000  architecture  and spanning up to 40,000 system gates, the Spartan Series
combines  high  performance, on-chip RAM, software cores, and low prices in high
volumes.  The Virtex series of FPGAs redefines the FPGA by offering high density
and  performance  with  unprecedented  system  level integration.  Fabricated in
leading  edge 0.22 micron technology, the Virtex family delivers the first fully
programmable alternative to high density system-level ASIC design.  Xilinx began
revenue  shipments  of  its 1,000,000 system-gate Virtex device during the third
quarter  of  fiscal  1999.

The preceding paragraph contains forward-looking statements which are subject to
risks  and  uncertainties  including  those discussed in Item 7 in "Management's
Discussion  and  Analysis  of  Financial  Condition  and  Results of Operation -
Factors  Affecting  Future  Results."

PLDs  are  available  in  a  wide  variety of plastic and ceramic package types,
including  pin-grid  array,  quad  flat pack and ball grid array configurations.
These devices meet the current industry standard operating temperature ranges of
commercial,  industrial  and  military  users.

     Software  design  tools

Xilinx  offers  complete  software  design  tool  solutions,  which  enable  the
implementation  of  designs in Xilinx PLDs.  These software design tools combine
powerful  technology  with  a  flexible, easy to use graphical interface to help
achieve  the  best  possible  designs  within  each customer's project schedule,
regardless  of  the  designer's  experience  level.

The  Company  offers  two  complementary  software  design  tool solutions.  The
Foundation  Series  provides  designers  with  a  complete,  ready-to-use design
solution based on industry-standard hardware description languages (HDLs) and is
easy  to  learn  and  use.  For  those  customers  new to designing with PLDs or
desiring  a low cost approach, the Company offers this fully integrated software
solution.  The  Alliance Series is for designers who want maximum flexibility to
integrate  programmable  logic  design  into  their existing EDA environment and
methodology.  With  interfaces to over 50 EDA vendors, this product allows users
to  select  tools  with  which  they  are most familiar thereby shortening their
design  cycle.

In addition, the Company offers WebFITTER, a free web-based, CPLD design fitting
software  tool  that allows system designers to evaluate their designs using the
XC9500/XL/XV  families  of  CPLDs,  on  the  latest  version of Xilinx software.
Design results are made available via the Internet in minutes.  The Company also
recently  purchased  software  assets including PLSynthesizer, a synthesis tool;
ABEL,  the  industry's  most  widely  used  high-level  description language for
programmable logic devices; and Design Navigator, a team-based, Internet-enabled
software  environment  that  integrates design entry, synthesis, place and route
and  simulation  functions.

The  Company  also  offers more than 75 pre-implemented, fully verified, drop-in
cores  of  logic  for  commonly  used  complex  functions such as digital signal
processing  (DSP),  bus interfaces, processors and peripheral interfaces.  Using
logic  cores,  available from the Company and third party AllianceCORE partners,
customers  can  shorten development time, reduce design risk and obtain superior
performance  for  their  designs.  Additionally,  the  Company's  CORE Generator
system  is the delivery mechanism for cores.  It offers a simple user interface,
complete  cataloging of available cores, easy selection of parameter-based cores
optimized  for  the  Company's  FPGAs  and  features an interface to third-party
system level DSP design tools.  The CORE Generator is shipped with the Company's
software  design  tools  and  is  also  available  via  the  Company's Web site.

Xilinx's  software design tools operate on desktop computer platforms, including
personal  computers  using  Windows 95, 98 and NT and workstations from IBM, HP,
DEC  and  Sun  Microsystems.  Through  March  31,  1999,  the  Company  had sold
approximately  53,000  software  design  systems  worldwide.

RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT

Xilinx's  research and development activities are primarily directed towards the
design  of  new  integrated  circuits, the development of advanced semiconductor
manufacturing  processes, the development of new software design tools and cores
of  logic  as  well  as  ongoing cost reductions and performance improvements in
existing  products.  The  Company's  recent primary areas of focus have been: to
introduce the industry's first programmable system integration solution (Virtex)
and  a  low-cost  ASIC  replacement  FPGA  solution  (Spartan),  to  extend  the
performance  and  density  range  of  the  industry's  most  popular FPGA series
(XC4000XLA/XV),  and  to increase market share of the CPLD market (XC9500XL/XV).
The Company also plans to place increasing emphasis on the involvement of Xilinx
Labs, Xilinx's corporate R&D group which concentrates on developing longer-term,
future  generation  technology.

Xilinx  supports  all  its  product  families  with easy-to-use, fully automated
software  design  tools  and cores of logic.  However, there can be no assurance
that  any  of  the  Company's  development efforts will be successful, timely or
cost-effective.

Xilinx believes that software design tools and logic cores are important factors
in  expanding the use of programmable logic devices.  The Company's research and
development  challenge  is  to  continue  to  develop  new  products that create
cost-effective  solutions  for  customers.  In  fiscal  1999, 1998 and 1997, the
Company's  research  and  development expenses were approximately $94.5 million,
$80.5 million and $71.1 million, respectively.  The Company expects that it will
continue  to  spend  substantial funds on research and development.  The Company
believes  that  technical  leadership  is essential to its future success and is
committed  to continuing a significant level of research and development effort.

MARKETING  AND  SALES

Xilinx sells its products through several channels of distribution: direct sales
to  manufacturers  by  independent  sales  representative  firms,  sales through
franchised  domestic  distributors,  and  sales  through  foreign  distributors.
Xilinx  also  utilizes  a  direct  sales  management  organization  and  field
applications  engineers  (FAEs)  as  well  as manufacturer's representatives and
distributors  to  reach  a  broad  base  of  potential customers.  The Company's
independent  representatives generally address larger OEM customers and act as a
direct  sales  force,  while  distributors  serve  the  balance of the Company's
customer  base.  The  Company's sales and customer support personnel support all
channels  and  consult with customers about their plans, ensuring that the right
software  and  devices  are  selected  at the beginning of a customer's project.

In  North  America,  Avnet,  Inc.,  and Insight Electronics, Inc. distribute the
Company's  products  nationwide, and Nu Horizons Electronics provides additional
regional  sales coverage.  The Company also utilized Marshall Industries through
the  third  quarter  of  fiscal  1999.  The  Company  believes that distributors
provide  a  cost-effective  means  of  reaching  certain  customers.  Since  the
Company's  PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory
risks  to  distributors as compared to custom gate arrays, and they simplify the
requirements  for  distributor  technical  support.

The  Company  changed  its  accounting method during fiscal 1999 for recognizing
revenue  on  all  shipments  to  international  distributors.  While the Company
previously  deferred  revenue  on  shipments  to domestic distributors until the
product  was  sold  to  the  end  user,  it  recognized revenue upon shipment to
international  distributors,  net  of  appropriate  reserves  for  returns  and
allowances.  Following  the  accounting change, revenue recognition on shipments
to  distributors  worldwide  is  deferred until the products are sold to the end
customer.  Distributors  have  certain  rights  of  return  and price protection
privileges  on  unsold  product  until  the  distributor  sells  the  product.

BACKLOG  AND  CUSTOMERS

As  of  March  31,  1999, the Company's backlog of purchase orders scheduled for
delivery  within  the  next three months was approximately $122.0 million, after
adjustments  for  estimated discounts.  Because of the previous  slowdown in the
semiconductor  market  and  a widespread perception by customers that product is
readily  available, many of the Company's customers are currently placing orders
for  near-term  delivery  and providing the Company limited visibility to demand
for  products  beyond  three  months.  Backlog  as  of  March  28,  1998  was
approximately $74.0 million, after adjustments for estimated discounts.  Backlog
amounts  for  both years include orders to distributors, which may receive price
adjustments upon sale to end customers.  Also, orders constituting the Company's
current  backlog  are subject to changes in delivery schedule or to cancellation
at  the  option  of  the  purchaser  without  significant penalty.  Accordingly,
although useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may
not  be  a  reliable  measure  of  revenues  for  any  future  period.

No  end customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues in fiscal 1999, 1998 or
1997.  See  Note  11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for
geographic  information.

WAFER  FABRICATION

The  Company  does not manufacture processed wafers used for its products.  Over
the  last  several  years,  the majority of wafers purchased by the Company were
manufactured  by  Seiko  Epson  Corporation  (Seiko  Epson)  and  United
Microelectronics Corporation, (UMC) with fiscal 1999 production also coming from
UMC  affiliated  companies  including  our  joint  venture,  United Silicon Inc.
(USIC).  Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production
and  the  pricing of wafers produced by UMC, Seiko Epson and USIC are determined
by  periodic  negotiations between the Company and these wafer foundry partners.

Xilinx's  strategy is to focus its resources on creating new integrated circuits
and  software  design  tools  and  on  market  development  rather than on wafer
fabrication.  The  Company  continuously  evaluates  opportunities  to  enhance
foundry  relationships  and/or  obtain  additional  capacity  from both its main
suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies.  As a
result,  the  Company  has  entered  into agreements with UMC and Seiko Epson as
discussed  below.

The Company, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and other parties entered
into  a joint venture to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known
as  United  Silicon  Inc. (USIC).  See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements  in  Item  8.  During  fiscal  1999,  the Company invested additional
equity  of  $5.4  million  in  USIC  to bring the total cumulative investment to
$107.1 million.  However, as other parties increased their equity in USIC during
the  most  recent  investment,  the Company's equity ownership decreased to 20%.
The  Company  can  receive up to 31.25% of the wafers produced in this facility.

In fiscal 1997, the Company signed an agreement with Seiko Epson.  See Note 2 of
Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  Item  8.  This agreement was
amended  in  fiscal  1998  and  provides for an advance to Seiko Epson of $150.0
million.  In  conjunction  with  the agreement, $60.0 million was paid in fiscal
1997 and an additional $90.0 million was paid in fiscal 1998.  Repayment of this
advance  is  made in the form of wafer deliveries, which began during the fourth
quarter  of fiscal 1998.  Specific wafer pricing is in U.S. dollars and is based
upon  the  prices  of  similar  wafers  manufactured  by  other,  specifically
identified,  leading-edge foundry suppliers.  The advance payment provision also
provides  for  interest  to  be  paid to the Company in the form of free wafers.

SORT,  ASSEMBLY  AND  TEST

Wafers  purchased  by  the  Company are sorted by the wafer foundry, independent
sort  subcontractors  or  by  the  Company.  Sorted  wafers  are  assembled  by
subcontractors  in  facilities  in  Pacific  Rim countries.  During the assembly
process,  the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled
into  various  package types.  Following assembly, the packaged units are tested
by  independent  test subcontractors or by Xilinx personnel at the Company's San
Jose  or  Dublin,  Ireland  facilities.

PATENTS  AND  LICENSES

Through March 31, 1999, the Company held approximately 300 United States patents
and maintains an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of
software, IC architecture and design.  The Company intends to vigorously protect
its  intellectual  property.  The  Company  believes that failure to enforce its
patents or to effectively protect its trade secrets could have an adverse effect
on  the  Company's  financial  condition  and  results  of operations. See Legal
Proceedings  in Item 3 and Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
in  Item  8.

Xilinx  has  acquired various software licenses that permit the Company to grant
object  code  sublicenses  to  its  customers  for  certain third party software
programs  licensed  with  the  Company's software design tools. In addition, the
Company  has  licensed  certain  software  for  internal  use in product design.

EMPLOYEES

Xilinx's  employee  population grew by 7% during the past year.  As of March 31,
1999, Xilinx had 1,491 employees compared to 1,391 at the end of the prior year.
None  of  the Company's employees are represented by a labor union.  The Company
has  not  experienced any work stoppages and believes it has good relations with
its  employees.

COMPETITION

Our  FPGAs  and  CPLDs  compete  in  the  programmable logic marketplace, with a
substantial  majority  of  our  revenues derived from our FPGA product families.
The  industries  in  which  we  compete  are  intensely  competitive  and  are
characterized by rapid technological change, product obsolescence and continuous
price  erosion.  We expect increased competition, both from existing competitors
and  from  a number of new companies that may enter our market.  We believe that
important  competitive  factors  in  the  programmable  logic  market  include:

- -     product  pricing;
- -     product  performance,  reliability  and  density;
- -     the  adaptability  of  products  to  specific  applications;
- -     ease  of  use  and  functionality  of  software  design  tools;
- -     functionality  of  predefined  cores  of  logic;  and
- -     the  ability  to  provide  timely  customer  service  and  support.

Our  strategy  for expansion in the programmable logic market includes continued
introduction  of  new  product architectures which address high volume, low cost
applications as well as high performance, leading-edge density applications.  In
addition,  we would anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our
ability  to lower the cost of manufacture for established products.  However, we
cannot  assure  that  we  will be successful in achieving these strategies.  Our
major  sources  of  competition  are  comprised  of  several  elements:

- -     the  manufacturers  of  custom  CMOS  gate  arrays;
- -     providers  of  high  density  programmable logic products characterized by
      FPGA-type  architectures;
- -     providers  of  high  speed,  low  density  CPLD  devices;  and
- -     other  providers  of  new  or  emerging  programmable  logic  products.

We  compete  with  custom  gate array manufacturers on the basis of lower design
costs,  shorter  development  schedules,  reduced  inventory  risks  and  field
upgradability.  The  primary  attributes of custom gate arrays are high density,
high  speed  and  low  production costs in high volumes.  We continue to develop
lower  cost architectures intended to narrow the gap between current custom gate
array  production  costs (in high volumes) and PLD production costs.  We compete
with  high density programmable logic suppliers on the basis of performance, the
ability to deliver complete solutions to customers, voltage and customer support
by  taking advantage of the primary characteristics of our PLD product offerings
which  include: flexibility, high speed implementation, quick time-to-market and
system  level  capabilities.  Competition among CPLD suppliers and manufacturers
of  new  or  emerging  programmable  logic products is based primarily on price,
performance,  design,  customer  support,  software  utility  and the ability to
deliver  complete  solutions  to  customers.  Some  of  our current or potential
competitors  have  substantially greater financial, manufacturing, marketing and
technical  resources than we do.  To the extent that such efforts to compete are
not  successful,  our  financial  condition  and  results of operations could be
materially  adversely  affected.

The  benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of companies to this
market.  Competition  is  based  primarily  on  density, speed, design, price or
software  utility.  We  recognize  that different applications require different
programmable  technologies,  and  we are developing architectures, processes and
products  to  meet  these  varying  customer  needs.  Recognizing the increasing
importance  of  standard  software  solutions, we have developed common software
design  tools  that  support  the full range of integrated circuit products.  We
believe  that  automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors
in  the  programmable  logic  market.

Several  companies,  both large and small, have introduced products that compete
with  ours  or have announced their intention to enter this market.  Some of our
competitors may possess innovative technology, which could prove superior to our
technology  in  certain  applications.  In  addition,  we  anticipate  potential
competition from suppliers of logic products based on new technologies.  Some of
our  current  or  potential  competitors  have  substantially greater financial,
manufacturing,  marketing  and  technical resources than we do.  This additional
competition  could  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition  and results of
operations.

We  could  also  face  competition from our licensees.  Under a license from us,
Lucent  Technologies  is  manufacturing and marketing our non-proprietary XC3000
FPGA  products  and  is  employing  that  technology  to provide additional FPGA
products  offering  higher  density.  Seiko  Epson has rights to manufacture our
products  and  market  them  in Japan and Europe, but is not currently doing so.
Advanced  Micro Devices is licensed to use certain of our patents to manufacture
and  market  products  other  than  SRAM-based  FPGAs.

EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

Certain  information  regarding each of Xilinx's executive officers is set forth
below:



There  are  no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company.
On  the  Board  of  Directors,  Mr. Vonderschmitt, Chairman of the Board, is the
brother-in-law  of  Mr.  Sanda,  Director.

Willem  P. "Wim" Roelandts joined the Company in January 1996 as Chief Executive
Officer and a member of the Company's Board of Directors.  In April 1996, he was
appointed  to  the  additional  position  as President of the Company.  Prior to
joining  the  Company,  he  served  at  Hewlett-Packard  Company,  a  computer
manufacturer,  as  Senior Vice President and General Manager of Computer Systems
Organizations  from  August  1992 through January 1996 and as Vice President and
General  Manager  of the Network Systems Group from December 1990 through August
1992.

Kris  Chellam  joined the Company in July 1998 as Senior Vice President, Finance
and  Chief  Financial Officer.  Prior to joining the Company, he served at Atmel
Corporation as Senior Vice President and General Manager of a product group from
March  to July 1998 and as Vice President, Finance and Administration, and Chief
Financial  Officer  from  September  1991  through  March  1998.

Steven  Haynes  joined  the Company in 1987 as the Regional Sales Manager of the
Northeast region, was promoted to Area Sales Director in 1988, and was appointed
Vice President, North American Sales in 1995.  In November 1998, he was promoted
and  now  holds  the  position  of  Vice  President,  Worldwide  Sales.

Dennis  Segers  joined  the  Company  in  January  1994 as Director of Strategic
Products  and  was  promoted  to  Vice President and General Manager in November
1995.  In  April  1998,  he  was  appointed  Senior  Vice President, and General
Manger.

Richard  W. Sevcik joined the Company in April 1997 as Senior Vice President and
General  Manager.  He  was  at  Hewlett-Packard Company for 10 years where, from
1994  through  1996, he served as Group General Manager of the company's Systems
Technology  Group  and  oversaw five divisions involved with product development
for  servers,  workstations,  operating systems, microprocessors, networking and
security.  In 1995 he was named Vice President.  From 1992 to 1994, he served as
Group  General  Manager  of Computer Systems and Servers and was responsible for
four  divisions.

Sandeep  S. Vij joined the Company in April 1996 as Director, FPGA Marketing and
was  promoted to Vice President, Marketing in October 1996.  In October 1997, he
was  appointed  to  the additional position of General Manager.  From 1990 until
April 1996, he served at Altera Corporation, a semiconductor manufacturer, where
he  most  recently  served  as  the  Product  Marketing  Manager.

ITEM  2.     PROPERTIES

Xilinx's  corporate  offices,  which include the administrative, sales, customer
support,  marketing,  research  and  development  and  final  testing groups are
located in San Jose, California.  The site includes adjacent buildings providing
335,000  square  feet  of  available  space, which are leased through 1999.  The
Company  has  entered  into  lease agreements relating to these facilities which
would  allow  the  Company  to  purchase these facilities on or before the lease
expiration  dates  in  December  1999.  The  Company  has  also  entered into an
agreement  whereby  an  180,000  square  foot  facility  is being constructed on
property  adjacent to the Company's corporate facilities.  The Company will have
the  option to purchase the building after an initial lease term.  See Note 6 of
Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in  Item  8.

In  addition, the Company has a 100,000 square foot administrative, research and
development  and  final  testing  facility  in  the metropolitan area of Dublin,
Ireland  and  a  60,000  square  foot  facility in Boulder, Colorado.  The Irish
facility  is  being used to service the Company's customer base outside of North
America,  while  the  Boulder facility is the primary location for the Company's
software  efforts  in  the  areas of research and development, manufacturing and
quality  control.  Additionally,  the Company purchased a 59-acre parcel of land
located  in  Longmont,  Colorado,  near  the Company's current Boulder facility.
Plans for infrastructure and the future development of the new property have not
been  finalized.

The  Company  also maintains North America sales offices in twenty-six locations
which  include  the  metropolitan areas of Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Dallas, Los
Angeles,  Minneapolis,  Philadelphia,  Raleigh  and  San  Jose  as  well  as ten
international sales offices located in the metropolitan areas of London, Munich,
Paris,  Stockholm,  Milan,  Brussels,  Tokyo,  Taipei,  Seoul  and  Hong  Kong.

ITEM  3.     LEGAL  PROCEEDINGS

On  June  7, 1993, the Company filed suit against Altera Corporation (Altera) in
the  United  States  District  Court for the Northern District of California for
infringement  of  certain  of the Company's patents.  Subsequently, Altera filed
suit  against  the  Company,  alleging  that  certain  of the Company's products
infringe  certain Altera patents.  Fact and expert discovery have been completed
in both cases, which have been consolidated.  On April 20, 1995, Altera filed an
additional  suit  against the Company in the Federal District Court in Delaware,
alleging  that  the  Company's  XC5200  family  infringes an Altera patent.  The
Company  answered the Delaware suit denying that the XC5200 family infringes the
patent  in suit, asserting certain affirmative defenses and counterclaiming that
the  Altera  Max  9000  family  infringes certain of the Company's patents.  The
Delaware  suit  was  transferred  to  the  United  States District Court for the
Northern  District of California and is also before the same judge.  Both Altera
and  the  Company  have  filed motions with the Court for summary judgement with
respect  to  certain of the issues pending in the litigation.  Those motions are
still  pending.

On  July  22, 1998, Altera and Joseph Ward, a former Xilinx employee, filed suit
against the Company in Superior Court in Santa Clara County, California, arising
out  of  the  Company's  efforts  to  prevent  disclosure  of  certain  Company
confidential  information.  Altera's suit requests declaratory relief and claims
the  Company  engages  in  unfair  business  practices  and  interference  with
contractual  relations.  On  September  10,  1998 the Company filed cross claims
against  Altera  and  Ward  for unfair competition and breach of contract, among
other  claims,  in  the California action.  On October 20, 1998, Altera and Ward
filed  crossclaims against the Company for malicious prosecution of civil action
and  defamation.

The  ultimate  outcome  of  these  matters  cannot  be  determined at this time.
Management  believes  that  it  has  meritorious  defenses to such claims and is
defending them vigorously.  The foregoing is a forward-looking statement subject
to risks and uncertainties, and the future outcome of these matters could differ
materially  due to the uncertain nature of each legal proceeding and because the
lawsuits  are  still  in  the  pre-discovery  or  pre-trial  stages.

On July 31, 1998, the Lemelson Foundation Partnership (Lemelson) filed a lawsuit
in  the United States District Court in Phoenix, Arizona against the Company and
twenty-five (25) other United States semiconductor companies for infringement of
certain  of  its  patents.  During the third quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company
entered  into  a  license  settlement  with  Lemelson.  In  response,  Lemelson
dismissed  with  prejudice  all  claims  against  the  Company.

There  are  no other pending legal proceedings of a material nature to which the
Company  is a party or of which any of its property is the subject.  The Company
knows  of  no  legal  proceedings  contemplated by any governmental authority or
agency.

ITEM  4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No  matters  were  submitted  to  a  vote  of security holders during the fourth
quarter  of  the  fiscal  year  covered  by  this  report.



                                     PART II
                                     -------


ITEM  5.     MARKET  FOR  THE  REGISTRANT'S  COMMON  EQUITY  AND
                           RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Xilinx's  Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ/AMEX National Market System under
the symbol XLNX. As of March 31, 1999, there were approximately 580 shareholders
of  record.  Since  many holders' shares are listed under their brokerage firms'
names,  the actual number of shareholders is estimated by the Company to be over
30,000.




ITEM  6.     SELECTED  FINANCIAL  DATA









ITEM  7.     MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION  AND  ANALYSIS  OF  FINANCIAL
                       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

CAUTIONARY  STATEMENT

The  statements  in  this  Management's Discussion and Analysis that are forward
looking  involve  numerous  risks  and  uncertainties  and  are based on current
expectations.  Actual results may differ materially.  Certain of these risks and
uncertainties  are discussed under "Factors Affecting Future Operating Results".
Forward looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward looking
words,  such  as  "may,"  "will,"  "could,"  "should,"  "expect,"  "believe,"
"anticipate,"  "estimate,"  "continue,"  "plan,"  "intend,"  "project," or other
similar  words.

NATURE  OF  OPERATIONS

Xilinx,  Inc.  (Xilinx  or  the  Company) designs, develops and markets complete
programmable  logic  solutions,  including  advanced  integrated circuits (ICs),
software  design  tools, predefined system functions delivered as cores of logic
and  field  engineering  support.  The  Company's programmable logic ICs include
field  programmable  gate  arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices
(CPLDs).  These  components are standard ICs programmed by Xilinx's customers to
perform  desired  logic  operations. Xilinx also markets HardWire devices, which
are  mask-programmed  ICs  functionally  equivalent  to  programmed  FPGAs.  The
Company's  products  are  designed  to  provide  high  integration  and  quick
time-to-market  for  electronic  equipment manufacturers in the data processing,
telecommunications,  networking,  industrial  control,  instrumentation,
high-reliability/military  and  consumer  markets.  The  Company  markets  its
products  throughout the world through a direct sales organization, direct sales
to  manufacturers  by  independent  sales  representative  firms,  sales through
franchised  domestic  distributors  and  sales  through  foreign  distributors.
Xilinx's products have provided effective solutions for a wide range of customer
logic  requirements.

RESULTS  OF  OPERATIONS

	NET  REVENUE



Xilinx's  net  revenue  increased  7.9%  during  fiscal  1999.  The increase was
primarily  due  to  the  continued  penetration  in  high-growth  end  markets
attributable  to  the  XC4000EX,  XC4000XL  and  XC9500 product lines, which was
partially  offset  by decreased revenues relating to the Company's mature XC4000
family  as well as the XC3000 family. Despite the revenue growth in fiscal 1999,
revenues  continue  to  be  impacted  by  the Japanese and Asia Pacific economic
conditions.  The  Company believes that this factor, as well as others described
in  "Factors  Affecting  Future  Operating  Results,"  could  continue to impact
revenues  in  the  near  term.  The  8.0%  increase in fiscal 1998 over 1997 was
primarily  due  to  the  revenue growth of the, XC4000EX and XC4000XL devices as
well  as  theXC5200  and  XC9500  product  lines.

The  Company  currently  classifies  its product offerings into four categories.
Base  products  consist  of  the  Company's  mature  product  families  that are
currently  manufactured  on  technologies greater than 0.5 micron; this includes
the  XC2000,  XC3000,  XC3100,  XC4000  and  XC7000  families.  Base  products
represented  22.2%  of  total  revenues  in fiscal 1999, as compared to 42.9% in
fiscal  1998.  Mainstream  products  are  currently  manufactured  on 0.5 micron
technology  and  include the XC4000E, XC4000EX, XC5200 and XC9500 product lines.
Mainstream products represented 41.1% of total revenues in fiscal 1999 and 38.0%
in  fiscal  1998.  Advanced  products  include the Company's newest technologies
manufactured  on  0.35 micron and smaller, which include the XC4000XL, XC4000XV,
XC4000XLA,  XC9500XL,  Virtex,  Spartan  and  SpartanXL product lines.  Advanced
products  represented  25.0% and 6.7% of total revenues in fiscal 1999 and 1998,
respectively, representing an increase of over 300% year over year.  The revenue
increase  in  Advanced  products  was  driven  primarily by the XC4000XL product
family  along  with the Virtex and Spartan product lines.  The Company's Support
products  make  up  the  remainder  of  its product offerings and include serial
proms,  HardWire,  High  Reliability and software.  Support products represented
11.7% and 12.4% of total revenues in fiscal 1999 and 1998, respectively.  No end
customer  accounted  for more than 10% of revenues in fiscal 1999, 1998 or 1997.

During  fiscal  1999,  the  Company's  total  PLD  unit shipments increased 21%,
compared  to  fiscal  1998.  However,  the average selling price for the highest
volume  PLD  products  decreased approximately 30% from fiscal 1998 prices while
individual  products  within  certain  families  experienced  price decreases in
excess  of  50%  during  the year.  In order to expand market share, the Company
passes  on  to customers manufacturing cost reductions by reducing prices to the
extent that the Company can maintain acceptable returns.  Price erosion has been
common  in  the  semiconductor  industry,  as  advances in both architecture and
manufacturing  process  technology  have  permitted continual reductions in unit
cost.  The  Company  has  historically  been  able to offset much of the revenue
declines  of  its  mature  technologies  with  increased  revenues  from  newer
technologies,  although  no assurance can be given that the Company can continue
to  do  so  in  the  future.

International  revenues  represented  approximately  32%,  38%, and 36% of total
revenues  for  fiscal  years  1999,  1998 and 1997, respectively.  International
revenues  are  derived  from customers in Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific/Rest of
World  which represented approximately 21%, 7% and 4% of the Company's worldwide
revenues, respectively, in fiscal 1999 as compared to approximately 23%, 10% and
5%  of  worldwide  revenues,  respectively, in fiscal year 1998.  Japan and Asia
Pacific/Rest of World experienced revenue declines in fiscal 1999 as compared to
a  year  ago primarily as a result of the continued weak economic environment in
those regions.  Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific/Rest of World experienced revenue
growth  in fiscal 1998 as compared to fiscal 1997 although the revenue growth in
Japan  was  adversely  impacted by the weakened yen relative to the U.S. dollar.

During  the  fourth  quarter  of fiscal 1999, the Company changed its accounting
method  for  recognizing revenue on all shipments to international distributors.
The  change  was  made  retroactive  to the beginning of fiscal 1999.  While the
Company  previously deferred revenue on shipments to domestic distributors until
the  products  were sold to the end user, it recognized revenue upon shipment to
international  distributors,  net  of  appropriate  reserves  for  returns  and
allowances.  Following  the  accounting change, revenue recognition on shipments
to  distributors  worldwide  is  deferred until the products are sold to the end
customer.  The  Company  believes  that  deferral  of  revenue  on  shipments to
distributors  until the product is shipped by the distributor to an end customer
is  a more meaningful measurement of results of operations as it better conforms
to  the  substance  of  the  transaction  considering  the  changing  business
environment  in  the  international  marketplace,  is  consistent  with industry
practice,  and  accordingly,  it  will  better focus the Company on end customer
sales; therefore it is a preferable method of accounting.  The cumulative effect
of  the  change  in  accounting  method  for  prior  years was a charge of $26.6
million,  net  of $12.0 million in taxes, or $0.17 net income per diluted share.

	GROSS  MARGIN



During  fiscal  1999,  the  Company's  gross margin percentage declined from the
prior  year  primarily  as  a  result  of  a  non-recurring royalty payment made
pursuant  to a license settlement with Lemelson Foundation Partnership which was
partially  offset  by  lower  wafer  prices  from wafer suppliers, manufacturing
process  technology  improvements, and improved yields that offset selling price
reductions.  See  Note  12  of  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  The
gross  margin percentage remained consistent from fiscal 1997 to 1998, excluding
the  impact  of  a  $5.0  million write-off of a discontinued product family, as
selling  price  reductions  were  offset  by the favorable impact of lower wafer
prices  from wafer suppliers, manufacturing process technology improvements, the
impact  of  the  stronger  U.S. dollar against the yen, and improved yields. The
Company recognizes that ongoing price reductions for its integrated circuits are
a  significant  element  in  expanding  the  market for its products. Management
believes that a gross margin objective in the range of 60% to 62% of revenues is
consistent  with  expanding  market  share  while  realizing acceptable returns,
although  there can be no assurance that future gross margins can remain in this
range.

During  fiscal  1997,  the  Company  discontinued  the XC8100 family of one-time
programmable  antifuse  devices.  As  a  result,  the  Company recorded a pretax
charge  against  earnings of $5.0 million.  This charge primarily related to the
write-off  of  inventory and termination charges related to purchase commitments
to  foundry  partners  for  work-in-process  wafers  which had not completed the
manufacturing  process.

	RESEARCH  AND  DEVELOPMENT



The  company  increased  its  expenditures in research and development as it has
done  each  year  during its fifteen-year history.  The increase in research and
development  expenditures from fiscal 1998 to 1999 was associated with designing
and  developing  new  product  architectures  of  complex,  high density devices
including  wafer purchases, software development, increased labor-related costs,
and  testing  of  new  products  along  with  a  $3.6  million charge to acquire
in-process  technology  in  conjunction  with  certain  assets purchased from MI
Acquisition  LLP.  See  Note  13  of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The  increase  in research and development expenses from fiscal 1997 to 1998 was
primarily  due  to  increased costs associated with designing and developing new
product  architectures  as  well as labor-related expenses.  The Company remains
committed  to a significant level of research and development effort in order to
maintain  its  technology  leadership  in  the  programmable  logic marketplace.
Through  March 31, 1999, the Company has received approximately 300 U.S. patents
and maintains an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of
software,  IC  architecture  and  design.

	SALES,  GENERAL  AND  ADMINISTRATIVE



The  4.4%  increase in sales, general and administrative expenses in fiscal 1999
was  primarily  attributable  to  increased  marketing  expenses for new product
introductions,  increased  sales  commissions  on  higher  revenues  from  U.S.
distributors  along  with  increased  personnel  costs.  Sales,  general  and
administrative  expenses  increased  in  fiscal  1998 over 1997 due to increased
headcount  and related employee expenses and, to a lesser extent, an increase in
legal  expenses.  The  Company  remains  committed to controlling administrative
expenses.  However,  the timing and extent of future legal costs associated with
the  ongoing  enforcement  of the Company's intellectual property rights are not
readily  predictable  and  may  significantly  increase  in  the  future.

	INTEREST  AND  OTHER,  NET



The  Company  earns interest income on its cash, cash equivalents and short-term
and  long-term  investments.  The amount of interest earned is a function of the
balance  of  cash  invested  as  well as prevailing interest rates.  The Company
incurred  interest expense on the $250.0 million 5 1/4% convertible subordinated
notes,  which  were  fully converted in February 1999.  The Company's investment
portfolio  contains tax-advantaged municipal securities, which had pretax yields
that  were  less  than  the interest rate on the convertible subordinated notes.
For  financial  reporting  purposes,  the  Company  effectively  recorded  the
difference  between  the  pretax  and  tax-equivalent  yields  as a reduction in
provision  for  taxes  on  income.

Average  cash  and  investment  balances  decreased slightly from the prior year
while  interest rates increased moderately keeping interest income constant from
fiscal  1998 to fiscal 1999.  The 10.4% increase in interest and other income in
fiscal 1999 was primarily due to the decrease in interest expense related to the
redemption  of  the  convertible  notes  in  fiscal 1999 offset partially by the
increase  in  foreign  currency  exchange  losses  from  $0.7 million in foreign
exchange  gains  in  the  prior  year to $0.4 million foreign exchange losses in
fiscal  1999. In 1998, average cash and investment balances and average interest
rates  remained  fairly  consistent with the prior year, resulting in comparable
net  interest  and  other  income in both years.  The amount of net interest and
other  income  in  the  future  will continue to be impacted by the level of the
Company's  average  cash  and investment balance, prevailing interest rates, the
balance  of  any  debt  outstanding,  and  foreign  currency  exchange  rates.

	PROVISION  FOR  INCOME  TAXES



The  tax rates from fiscal 1997 through  fiscal 1999 were favorably impacted by
legislation reinstating  the  R&D  Tax  Credit.  Furthermore, increased profits
in foreign operations where the tax rate is  lower  than the U.S. rate combined
with lower state taxes favorably impacted the Company's tax rates.

	JOINT  VENTURE  EQUITY  INCOME

The  Company  records  its  proportional  ownership  of the net income (loss) of
United Silicon Inc. (USIC), a wafer fabrication joint venture located in Taiwan,
as joint venture equity income (loss).  The fiscal 1999 net loss was a result of
the  continued ramp up in production of the wafer fabrication facility.  The net
income  in  fiscal  1998 was primarily attributable to foreign exchange gains as
well  as  interest  earned  on  its  investment portfolio.  Many of the expenses
associated with full foundry operations are being incurred although the facility
has  not  reached  full  production.

	INFLATION

To  date, the effects of inflation upon the Company's financial results have not
been  significant.


FINANCIAL  CONDITION,  LIQUIDITY  AND  CAPITAL  RESOURCES

The  Company's  financial  condition as of March 31, 1999 continued to be strong
with  total current assets exceeding total current liabilities by 3.9 times.  At
March  31,  1998, total current assets exceeded total current liabilities by 4.8
times.  The Company has used a combination of equity and debt financing and cash
flow  from  operations  to  support  on-going  business  activities,  secure
acquisitions  and  investments  in complementary technologies, obtain facilities
and  capital  equipment  and  finance  inventory  and  accounts  receivable.

	CASH,  CASH  EQUIVALENTS  AND  SHORT-TERM  INVESTMENTS

Xilinx's  cash,  cash  equivalents and short-term investments increased by $40.3
million  in  1999  as the Company continued to generate positive cash flows from
operations.  Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments represented 37.6%
of  total  assets  at March 31, 1999.  The Company generated cash flow of $243.6
million from operating activities in 1999, offset by $298.6 million of cash used
for  investing  activities  and  $58.3  million  used  in  financing activities.
Investing  activities  during  fiscal  1999  included  the  net  purchase  of
investments,  expenditures  for  property,  plant  and  equipment, an additional
investment  in  the  USIC  joint  venture,  and certain assets purchased from MI
Acquisition  LLP.  Financing  activities  during 1999 included $113.8 million to
acquire  treasury stock offset by $55.5 million in proceeds from sales of common
stock  under  employee  option  and  stock  purchase  plans.

	RECEIVABLES

Receivables  increased  20.5%  from  $60.9  million  at the end of 1998 to $73.4
million  at the end of 1999.  Days sales outstanding at the end of 1999 and 1998
were  both  36  days.  The consistency in days sales outstanding was primarily a
result  of  the  increase  in  domestic  sales  through  distribution where some
distributors  received  discounts  for  prompt  payment.

	INVENTORIES

Inventories  decreased 5.9% from $55.3 million at March 1998 to $52.0 million at
March  1999.  Inventory  levels at March 31, 1999 represent 68 days of inventory
compared to 86 days at March 31, 1998.  Inventory levels decreased during fiscal
1999  due  to higher than expected shipments and increased focus on supply chain
management in addition to both architecture and manufacturing process technology
improvements  that  have permitted continued cost reductions.  The Company seeks
to balance two competing objectives with regard to inventory management.  On the
one  hand, the Company believes that its standard, off-the-shelf products should
be  available  for  prompt  shipment  to customers.  Accordingly, it attempts to
maintain  sufficient  levels  of inventory in various product, package and speed
configurations  to  meet  anticipated  customer  demand.  On the other hand, the
Company  also  wishes to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining
higher  inventory  levels  and  to  realize  fully  the  opportunities  for cost
reductions  associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements.
The  Company  continually  strives  to  balance  these two objectives to provide
excellent  customer  response  at  a  competitive  cost.

	PROPERTY,  PLANT  AND  EQUIPMENT

During  1999,  Xilinx  invested  $40.9  million  in  property  and equipment, as
compared  to $29.7 million in 1998.  Primary investments in fiscal 1999 were for
software  development  tools  and  semiconductor  design, test and manufacturing
equipment  at  each  of  its  manufacturing  locations.

	CURRENT  LIABILITIES

Current  liabilities  increased from $125.7 million at the end of fiscal 1998 to
$167.2  million  at  the  end  of  fiscal  1999.  The  increase  was  primarily
attributable  to  an  increase  in deferred income on shipments to distributors.
This  is  a  result of the accounting change, under which the Company now defers
revenue  from  international  distributors  in addition to domestic distributors
until  the  distributor  ships  the  product  to  an  end  customer.

	LONG-TERM  DEBT  AND  LINES  OF  CREDIT

In  fiscal  1999,  the  Company  converted  in  full  $250.0  million  of 5 1/4%
Convertible  Subordinated  Notes  due  2002  (Notes)  for a total of 9.8 million
shares  of  common stock at a price of $25.50 per share.  The Company has credit
facilities  for  up  to  $46.2 million of which $6.2 million is intended to meet
occasional  working capital requirements for the Company's Ireland manufacturing
facility.  At  March 31, 1999 and 1998, no borrowings were outstanding under the
lines  of  credit.  See  Note  5  of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

	STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

Stockholders'  equity  grew by 59.8% in 1999 to $879.3 million.  The increase of
$329.1 million was primarily attributable to $102.6 million in net income, $90.3
million related to the issuance of common stock from the employee stock plan and
the  tax  benefit from stock options, and $250.3 million related to the issuance
of  common stock from the debt conversion partially offset by the $113.8 million
used  to  acquire  treasury  stock.

	SUMMARY  OF  LIQUIDITY

The  Company  anticipates  that existing sources of liquidity and cash flow from
operations  will  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  the  Company's cash needs for the
foreseeable  future.  However, the risk factors discussed in Item 7 could affect
the  Company's  cash positions adversely.  The Company will continue to evaluate
opportunities  for  investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement
of additional capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and
potential  acquisitions  of  businesses,  products  or  technologies  that would
complement  the Company's businesses and may use available cash or other sources
of  funding  for  such  purposes.

FACTORS  AFFECTING  FUTURE  OPERATING  RESULTS

The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized  by  rapid technological change,
intense  competition and cyclical market patterns.  Cyclical market patterns are
characterized  by  several  factors,  including:

- -     reduced  product  demand;
- -     limited  visibility  of  demand  for products beyond three to nine months;
- -     accelerated  erosion  of  average  selling  prices;  and
- -     volatile  capacity  availability.

Our results of operations are affected by several factors. These factors include
general  economic conditions, conditions specific to technology companies and to
the  semiconductor  industry  in particular, decreases in average selling prices
over the life of particular products and the timing of new product introductions
(by us, our competitors and others.)  In addition, our results of operations are
affected  by the ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product
in a timely manner, the timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies,
the ability to safeguard patents and intellectual property from competitors, the
impact  of  new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for some
products  in  the  face  of equally steep declines in demand for others, and the
inability  to predict the success of our customers' products into their markets.
Market demand for our products, particularly for those most recently introduced,
can  be  difficult  to  predict,  especially  in  light of customers' demands to
shorten  product lead times and minimize inventory levels.  Unpredictable market
demand  could lead to revenue volatility if we were unable to provide sufficient
quantities of specified products in a given quarter. In addition, any difficulty
in  achieving  targeted  wafer  production  yields  could  adversely  affect our
financial condition and results of operations. We attempt to identify changes in
market  conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make
prediction  of  and  timely reaction to such events difficult.  Due to these and
other  factors,  our past results, including those described in this report, are
much  less  reliable predictors of the future than with companies in many older,
more  stable and less dynamic industries.  Based on the factors noted herein, we
may  experience  substantial  period-to-period  fluctuations in future operating
results.

Our  future  success depends in a large part on the continued service of our key
technical,  sales,  marketing  and  management  personnel  and on our ability to
continue  to attract and retain qualified employees.  Particularly important are
those  highly  skilled  design, process, software and test engineers involved in
the  manufacture  of  existing  products and the development of new products and
processes.  The  competition  for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key
employees  could  have  a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results  of  operations.

Sales  and  operations  outside  of  the  United  States subject us to the risks
associated  with  conducting  business  in  foreign  economic  and  regulatory
environments.  Our  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations  could be
adversely  affected  by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we
do  significant  business  and  by  changes  in  foreign currency exchange rates
affecting  those  countries.  Specifically,  we  have  sales  and  operations in
Southeast  Asia  and  Japan.  The  recent economic weakness in these markets has
adversely  affected revenues and may continue to impact those markets in several
ways.  Customers  may  face  reduced  access  to  capital  and  exchange  rate
fluctuations  may  adversely  affect their ability to purchase our products.  In
addition,  our  ability  to  sell at competitive prices may be diminished.  This
instability may increase credit risks as the continued weakness of certain Asian
currencies  may  impair  our  customers'  ability to repay existing obligations.
Depending  on  the  recovery  in  Asia  in  coming quarters, any or all of these
factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations
in  the  near  future.

Our  financial  condition  and  results  of operations are becoming increasingly
dependent  on a global economy.  The increased instability in worldwide economic
environments  could lead to a contraction of capital spending.  Additional risks
to  us include government regulation of exports, imposition of tariffs and other
potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in
some countries and generally longer receivable collection periods.  Our business
is  also  subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and
regulations  relating  specifically  to  the  import  or export of semiconductor
products.  We  cannot  predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or
restrictions  will  be  imposed by the United States or other countries upon the
import  or  export  of  our  products in the future or what effect, if any, such
actions  would  have  on  our  financial  condition  and  results of operations.

Many  of  our  operations  are  centered  in an area of California that has been
seismically  active.  Should  there  be  a  major  earthquake  in this area, our
operations  may  be  disrupted.  This  type  of  disruption  could result in our
inability  to  ship  products  in  a timely manner, thereby materially adversely
affecting  our  financial  condition  and  results  of  operations.

The  securities of many high technology companies have historically been subject
to  extreme price and volume fluctuations, which may adversely affect the market
price  of  our  common  stock.

	DEPENDENCE UPON INDEPENDENT MANUFACTURERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS

We do not manufacture the wafers used for our products.  During the past several
years,  most  of  our  wafers  have  been  manufactured  by  UMC and Seiko Epson
Corporation  (Seiko  Epson),  with  recent wafers also manufactured by USIC.  We
have depended upon these suppliers and others to produce wafers with competitive
performance  and  cost  attributes  which  include  transitioning  to  advanced
manufacturing  process  technologies,  producing wafers at acceptable yields and
delivering  them in a timely manner.  While the timeliness, yield and quality of
wafer  deliveries  have  met our requirements to date, we cannot assure that our
wafer  suppliers  will  not  experience future manufacturing problems, including
delays  in  the  realization  of  advanced  manufacturing  process technologies.
Additionally,  disruption  of  operations  at  these  foundries  for any reason,
including  natural  disasters  such as fires, floods, or earthquakes, as well as
disruptions  to access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water
could  cause  delays  in  shipments  of  our products, and could have a material
adverse  effect  on  our  results  of  operations.  We  are  also  dependent  on
subcontractors  to  provide  semiconductor  assembly  services.  Any  prolonged
inability to obtain wafers or assembly services with competitive performance and
cost  attributes,  adequate yields or timely delivery, or any other circumstance
that  would  require  us  to  seek  alternative  sources  of supply, could delay
shipments  and  have  a  material  adverse effect on our financial condition and
results  of  operations.

Our  growth  will  depend  in  a large part upon our ability to obtain increased
wafer  fabrication  capacity  and assembly services from suppliers that are cost
competitive.  We  consider  various  alternatives  in order to secure additional
wafer  capacity.  These  alternatives  include,  without  limitation,  equity
investments  in,  or  loans,  deposits,  or  other  financial  commitments  to
independent  wafer  manufacturers.  We  also consider the use of contracts which
commit  us to purchase specified quantities of wafers over extended periods.  We
are  currently able to obtain wafers from existing suppliers in a timely manner.
However, at times we have been unable, and may in the future be unable, to fully
satisfy customer demand because of production constraints, including the ability
of  suppliers  and  subcontractors  to provide materials and services to satisfy
customer  delivery  dates,  as  well  as  our  ability  to  process products for
shipment.  In addition, a significant increase in general industry demand or any
interruption of supply could reduce our supply of wafers or increase our cost of
such wafers.  These events could have a material adverse affect on our financial
condition  and  results  of  operations.

	DEPENDENCE  ON  NEW  PRODUCTS

Our  future  success  depends  in  a  large  part  on our ability to develop and
introduce on a timely basis new products which address customer requirements and
compete  effectively  on  the  basis  of  price,  density,  functionality  and
performance.  The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several
factors,  including:

- -     timely  completion  of  new  product  designs;
- -     our  ability  to  utilize  advanced  manufacturing  process  technologies;
- -     achieving  acceptable  yields;
- -     the  availability  of  supporting  software  design  tools;
- -     utilization  of  predefined  cores  of  logic;  and
- -     market  acceptance.

We cannot assure that our product development efforts will be successful or that
our  new  products  will  achieve  market  acceptance.  Revenues relating to our
mature products are expected to continue to decline in the future.  As a result,
we  will be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from newer products along
with  cost reductions on current products.  We rely primarily on obtaining yield
improvements  and  corresponding  cost reductions in the manufacture of existing
products and on introducing new products which incorporate advanced features and
other  price/performance  factors  that  enable  us  to  increase revenues while
maintaining consistent margins.  To the extent that such cost reductions and new
product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our
products  do  not  achieve  market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our
financial  condition  and  results  of  operations could be materially adversely
affected.

	COMPETITION

See  "Competition"  discussion  in  Item  1.

	INTELLECTUAL  PROPERTY

We  rely  upon  patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law to protect our
intellectual  property.  We cannot assure that such intellectual property rights
can  be  successfully  asserted  in  the  future  or  will  not  be invalidated,
circumvented  or  challenged.  From  time  to time, third parties, including our
competitors,  have  asserted  patent,  copyright and other intellectual property
rights  to  technologies  that are important to us.  We cannot assure that third
parties  will  not  assert  infringement  claims  against us in the future, that
assertions  by  third  parties  will  not result in costly litigation or that we
would  prevail  in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed
patents  from  third  parties  on  commercially  reasonable  terms.  Litigation,
regardless  of  its  outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of
our  resources.  Any  infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us
could  materially  adversely  affect  our  financial  condition  and  results of
operations.

	COMPUTER  INFORMATION  SYSTEMS

In  order  to  compete  effectively  in  an  industry  characterized  by  rapid
technological  change,  intense  competition  and  cyclical  market patterns, we
continually  evaluate  our  computer  information systems.  As a result, we have
recently  implemented  new  computer  information systems or system enhancements
relating to our semiconductor manufacturing, software manufacturing, order entry
processing  and  financial  applications.

Like  most  other  companies  using  computer  information  systems  in  their
operations, we are currently working to resolve the potential impact of the Year
2000  on  the  processing  of  date-sensitive  information  by  our computerized
information  systems,  as  well  as  the  vendor  and  customer  date-sensitive
computerized  information electronically transferred to us.  The Year 2000 issue
is  the  result of computer programs being written using two digits, rather than
four,  to  define  the  applicable  Year.  Any  of  our  systems  that  have
time-sensitive  software may recognize a year ending in "00" as 1900 rather than
the  year  2000, which could result in miscalculations, classification errors or
system  failures.

We  have  performed  a thorough review of our internal use software and hardware
applications  and  software products in order to identify those applications and
products that are not Year 2000 compliant. Currently, our Year 2000 efforts have
been  focused  on  final  Year 2000 integrated verification for the software and
hardware  applications  identified  in  the  review  in  addition to those newly
implemented or enhanced.   We are also placing additional emphasis on finalizing
the assessment of our outside suppliers and other critical business partners for
which  initial  assessments  were  incomplete.  We  believe  that  our  internal
computer  system  implementation or enhancement efforts principally conducted to
improve  competitive  and  operating efficiencies, as described above, have also
addressed some of our internal Year 2000 compliance issues.  Additional internal
information  systems  are  also  currently  being  upgraded.   Electronic  data
interchange  modifications  have  been completed that are intended to ensure all
dates  are  handled  properly,  although we cannot assure that all dates will be
handled properly.  With regard to all information technology hardware, including
desktops,  servers,  networking  and  telecom  equipment,  we have completed our
assessments,  are  making  the  necessary  upgrades  and  expect to complete the
upgrades  by mid-calendar 1999, although we cannot assure these upgrades will be
completed  as  scheduled.

We  believe  that  our  latest  software  release,  version  M1.5,  is Year 2000
compliant,  although we cannot assure that it is Year 2000 compliant.   However,
some  of  our  customers  are  running  product  versions that are not Year 2000
compliant.  We  have  been  encouraging such customers to migrate to the current
product  version.

We  plan  to  take  several  steps  to minimize any Year 2000 effects, including
miscalculations,  classification  errors  or  system  failures.  Our  internal
preparedness  includes  specific steps that will be taken in anticipation of the
Year  2000.  In  addition,  we  are relying on a contingency plan which has been
developed  and  is  now  being  implemented  which  includes manual workarounds,
attention  to  inventory  levels,  the  ability to utilize both our San Jose and
Ireland  manufacturing  facilities  for shipment and having multiple vendors who
can  provide  critical  services,  wafer  assembly  as  well  as  test products.

The  costs  directed  solely towards Year 2000 compliance are not incremental to
us, but rather represent a reallocation of existing resources.  To date, we have
incurred  less  than  $1.5  million on efforts directed solely towards Year 2000
compliance  and  expect  to  incur  a  total  of less than $2.0 million when the
process is completed, although we cannot assure that this will be the case.  The
costs  of  addressing  potential  problems  are not currently expected to have a
material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash
flows  in  future periods.  If, however, we, our customers or vendors are unable
to  resolve  such  processing  issues  on  a  timely,  cost-effective basis, our
financial  condition  and  results  of  operations  could be adversely affected.

The  statements  above represent forward-looking statements subject to risks and
uncertainties  and  actual  results  may  differ materially from those described
above  due  to  a  number  of  risk factors.  These factors include, but are not
limited  to:

- -     the  complexity  of  identifying  potential  Year  2000  issues;
- -     our  ability to allocate and/or obtain qualified resources to resolve Year
      2000  issues;
- -     our  ability  to work effectively with vendors and other critical business
      partners;  and
- -     our  effectiveness at encouraging customers to migrate towards our current
      software  product  version.

We  cannot  assure  that  we will be able to successfully modify all systems and
products  to  comply  with  Year  2000 requirements, which could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  If we were
to  discontinue our Year 2000 preparedness at this time, we would not be able to
ensure  all  internal  networks  and desktops were operational, nor ensure third
party  vendors  were  able  to  meet  our  inventory demands or send information
electronically.  In  addition,  disruptions  to  the economy generally resulting
from  the  Year 2000 issues could also materially adversely impact us.  We could
be  subject  to  litigation  for  computer  system  failures  such  as equipment
shutdowns or failure to properly date business records.  At this time, we cannot
reasonably  estimate  the  amount  of  potential  liability  and  lost  revenue.

	EURO  CURRENCY

Beginning  in  1999, 11 member countries of the European Union established fixed
conversion  rates  between  their  existing sovereign currencies and adopted the
Euro as their common legal currency.  During the three year transition, the Euro
will  be  available  for non-cash transactions and legacy currencies will remain
legal  tender.  We  are  continuing to assess the Euro's impact on our business.
We are reviewing the ability of our accounting and information systems to handle
the  conversion,  the ability of foreign banks to report on dual currencies, the
legal  and  contractual  implications  of  agreements,  as well as reviewing our
pricing  strategies.  We  expect  that  any  additional  modifications  to  our
operations  and  systems  will be completed on a timely basis and do not believe
the  conversion will have a material adverse impact on our operations.  However,
we  cannot  assure  that  we will be able to successfully modify all systems and
contracts  to  comply  with  Euro  requirements.

	LITIGATION

We  are  currently  engaged  in several legal matters.  See Legal Proceedings in
Item  3  and  Note  12  of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.


ITEM 7A.  MARKET  RATE  RISKS

Interest  Rate  Risk  -  The  Company's  exposure  to interest rate risk relates
primarily  to  the  Company's  investment  portfolio.  See  Note  5  of Notes to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements.  The  Company's  primary  aim  with  its
investment  portfolio is to invest available cash while preserving principal and
meeting liquidity needs.  The portfolio includes tax-advantaged municipal bonds,
tax-advantaged  auction rate preferred municipal bonds, certificates of deposit,
and  U.S.  Treasury  securities.  In  accordance  with  the Company's investment
policy,  the  Company  places  investments  with high credit quality issuers and
limits  the  amount  of credit exposure to any one issuer.  These securities are
subject  to  interest  rate  risk  and will decrease in value if market interest
rates increase.  A hypothetical 10% increase in interest rates would result in a
$1.5  million  (less  than  0.3%)  decrease  in  the fair value of the Company's
available-for-sale  securities  as  of  the  end  of  fiscal  1999 and 1998.  In
addition,  the  Company  has  historically had the ability and has the intent to
hold  its  securities until maturity and therefore, does not expect to recognize
an adverse impact on income or cash flows, although there can be no assurance of
this.  Until  the conversion of the long-term debt to equity in fiscal 1999, the
Company  also had a liability interest rate exposure which was mitigated through
the  use  of  a  liability  interest  rate  swap  agreement.

Foreign  currency risk - The Company uses forward currency exchange contracts to
reduce  financial  market  risks.  The Company's sales to Japanese customers are
denominated in yen while its purchases of processed silicon wafers from Japanese
foundries  are  primarily  denominated  in  U.S.  dollars.  Gains  and losses on
foreign  currency  forward contracts that are designated and effective as hedges
of  anticipated transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are
deferred  and included  in the basis of the transaction  in the same period that
the underlying transactions are settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not
meeting the above criteria would be recognized in income in the current period.
A 15% adverse change  in  yen  exchange  rates  based on historical average rate
fluctuations  would  have had approximately a 1.0% adverse impact on revenue for
fiscal years 1999 and 1998.  In fiscal 2000, the Company has also begun to share
the  yen  exchange  rate  risk  with some of its Japanese customers through risk
sharing  agreements.  As the Company will continue to have a net yen exposure in
the  near  future, it will continue to mitigate the exposure through yen hedging
contracts.  However,  no forward currency contracts were outstanding as of March
31,  1999.

The  Company has several subsidiaries and an equity investment in the USIC joint
venture  whose  financial  statements  are recorded in currencies other than the
U.S.  dollar.  As  these foreign currency financial statements are translated at
each  month end during consolidation, fluctuations of exchange rates between the
foreign  currency  and  the  U.S. dollar increase or decrease the value of those
investments.  If  permanent  changes occur in exchange rates after an investment
is  made,  the  investment's value will increase or decrease accordingly.  These
fluctuations  are recorded as a component of stockholders' equity as a component
of  accumulated other comprehensive income.  To date, the USIC joint venture has
recorded  $17.5 million in cumulative translation adjustments, as the New Taiwan
dollar  has  decreased in value against the U.S. dollar.  Also, as the Company's
subsidiaries  and  the  USIC  joint  venture maintain investments denominated in
other  than  local  currencies,  exchange  rate  fluctuations  will  occur.


ITEM  8.     FINANCIAL  STATEMENTS  AND  SUPPLEMENTARY  DATA
















                                  XILINX, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

NOTE  1.  NATURE  OF  OPERATIONS

Xilinx  designs,  develops  and  markets  complete programmable logic solutions,
including advanced integrated circuits, software design tools, predefined system
functions delivered as cores of logic and field engineering support.  The wafers
used  to  manufacture the Company's products are obtained from independent wafer
manufacturers,  located  in  Japan  and  Taiwan.  The  Company is dependent upon
these  manufacturers  to  produce  and  deliver  wafers  on a timely basis.  The
Company is also dependent on subcontractors, located in the Asia Pacific region,
to  provide  semiconductor  assembly  services.  Xilinx is a global company with
manufacturing  facilities  in  the  United  States and Ireland and sales offices
throughout  the  world.  The  Company  derives  approximately  one-third  of its
revenues  from  international  sales,  primarily  in  Europe  and  Japan.

NOTE  2.  SUMMARY  OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND CONCENTRATIONS OF RISK

     Basis  of  presentation

The  accompanying  consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company  and its wholly owned subsidiaries after elimination of all intercompany
transactions.  The  Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest March 31.
For  ease of presentation, March 31 has been utilized as the fiscal year-end for
all financial statement captions.  Fiscal 1999 was a 53-week year ended on April
3,  1999  while  fiscal 1998 and 1997 were 52-week years ended on March 28, 1998
and March 29, 1997, respectively.  Certain amounts from the prior year have been
reclassified  to  conform  to  the  current  year  presentation.

     Cash  equivalents  and  investments

Cash  and cash equivalents consist of cash on deposit with banks and investments
in  money  market  instruments  with  minimal  interest  rate  risk and original
maturities  at  date  of acquisition of 90 days or less.  Short-term investments
consist  of  tax-advantaged  municipal  bonds  and  tax-advantaged  auction rate
preferred municipal bonds with maturities greater than 90 days but less than one
year  from  the balance sheet date, unless funds are specifically identified for
current  operations.  Restricted  investments consist of certificates of deposit
held  as collateral relating to leases for the Company's facilities.  See Note 6
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Long-term investments consist of
U.S.  Treasury  notes and tax-advantaged municipal bonds with maturities greater
than  one  year but less than 4 years from the balance sheet date, which are not
required  for  current  operations.  The  Company  invests  its  cash,  cash
equivalents,  short-term  and  long-term  investments  through various banks and
investment  banking  institutions.  This  diversification  of risk is consistent
with  the  Company  policy  to  maintain  liquidity  and  ensure  the  safety of
principal.

Management  classifies  investments as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity at
the  time  of  purchase  and re-evaluates such designation at each balance sheet
date,  although  classification  is  generally  not  changed.  Securities  are
classified  as held-to-maturity when the Company has the positive intent and the
ability  to hold the securities until maturity.  Held-to-maturity securities are
carried at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts
to  maturity.  Such  amortization, as well as any interest on the securities, is
included  in  interest  income.    Available-for-sale  securities are carried at
fair  value  with  the  unrealized  gains  or  losses, net of tax, included as a
component  of  accumulated  other  comprehensive income in stockholders' equity.
Realized  gains  and  losses  and  declines  in  value  judged  to  be
other-than-temporary  on  available-for-sale  securities  are  included in other
income.  The  fair values for marketable debt and equity securities are based on
quoted  market  prices.  The  cost of securities matured or sold is based on the
specific  identification  method.

     Inventories

Inventories  are  stated  at  the  lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market
(estimated net realizable value) and are comprised of the following at March 31,
1999  and  1998:



     Advances  for  wafer  purchases

In  fiscal  1997,  the  Company  signed an agreement with Seiko Epson, a primary
wafer  supplier.  This  agreement  was  amended  in fiscal 1998 providing for an
advance  to  Seiko  Epson of $150.0 million.  In conjunction with the agreement,
$60.0  million  was paid in fiscal 1997 and an additional $90.0 million was paid
in  fiscal  1998.  Repayment  of  this  advance  is  made  in  the form of wafer
deliveries,  which  began during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998.  The advance
payment  provision  also  provides for interest to be paid to the Company in the
form  of  free wafers.  Related interest income has been accrued monthly and the
accrued  balance is offset as free wafers are received.  Through March 31, 1999,
the  Company has received $55.1 million in wafers against this advance, of which
$1.6  million was in the form of free wafers.  Specific wafer pricing is in U.S.
dollars  and  is  based  upon foundries with comparable technology, products and
volume,  and  prices  quoted  by  specific research firms for foundry prices for
similar  wafers.

     Property,  Plant  and  Equipment

Property,  plant  and  equipment are stated at cost.  Depreciation for financial
reporting purposes is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated
useful  lives  of  the  assets  of three to five years for machinery, equipment,
furniture  and  fixtures  and  up  to  thirty  years  for  buildings.

     Revenue  Recognition

The  Company recognizes revenue from product sales upon shipment to OEMs and end
users.  Reserves  for  sales  returns and allowances are recorded at the time of
shipment.  As  further  explained  in  Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements,  commencing in fiscal 1999, revenue on shipments to all distributors
is  deferred until products are sold by the distributors to end users.  Prior to
fiscal  1999,  revenue  on shipments to domestic distributors was deferred until
resale  to  end  users  because  arrangements  with  these distributors included
returns and price protection privileges which could not be reasonably estimated.
Revenue  on  all  shipments  to  international  distributors was recognized upon
shipment  to the distributor, with appropriate provision of reserves for returns
and  allowances.

     Foreign  currency  translation

The  U.S.  dollar  is  the  functional  currency  for  the  Company's  Ireland
manufacturing  facility.  Assets and liabilities that are not denominated in the
functional currency are remeasured into U.S. dollars, and the resulting gains or
losses  are included in "Interest income and other".  The functional currency is
the  local currency for each of the Company's other foreign subsidiaries and the
USIC joint venture.  Assets and liabilities are translated at month-end exchange
rates, and statements of operations are translated at the average exchange rates
during  the  year.  Exchange gains or losses arising from translation of foreign
currency  denominated  assets  and  liabilities  are  included as a component of
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income  in  stockholders'  equity.

     Derivative  financial  instruments

As  part  of  its ongoing asset and liability management activities, the Company
periodically  enters  into  certain  derivative financial arrangements to reduce
financial  market  risks.  These instruments are used to hedge foreign currency,
equity  and interest rate market exposures of underlying assets and liabilities.
The  Company  does  not  enter into derivative financial instruments for trading
purposes.

The  Company uses forward currency exchange contracts to reduce financial market
risks.  The  Company's  sales to Japanese customers are denominated in yen while
its  purchases of processed silicon wafers from Japanese foundries are primarily
denominated  in  U.S.  dollars.  Gains  and  losses  on foreign currency forward
contracts  that  are  designated  and  effective  as  hedges  of  anticipated
transactions,  for  which  a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and
included in the basis of the transaction in the same period  that the underlying
transactions are settled. Gains and losses on any instruments not meeting the
above criteria would be recognized in income in the current period.  No currency
forward contracts  were  outstanding as of March 31, 1999.

In  fiscal  1999, the Company's two and a half year interest rate swap agreement
terminated.  The  interest rate swap agreement was in place in order to mitigate
the interest rate risks whereby the long-term debt fixed interest rate liability
was matched against the Company's short-term variable interest rate assets.  The
liability  interest  rate swap agreement involved the exchange of fixed interest
rate payments for variable interest rate payments over the life of the agreement
without  an  exchange  of  the  notional amount.  The differential to be paid or
received  as  the  variable  interest rate changes was accrued and recognized as
interest  expense.  The  related  amounts  payable  or receivable from the third
party  was included in other liabilities or assets.   For the period of time the
swap  was  outstanding,  the fair value of the swap agreement and changes in the
fair  value  as  a result of changes in market interest rates were not material.
See  Note  5  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.

     Employee  stock  plans

The  Company  accounts for its stock option and employee stock purchase plans in
accordance  with  provisions of the Accounting Principles Board's Opinion No. 25
(APB  25),  "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees."  In addition the Company
discloses  pro  forma  information  related  to  its  stock  plans  according to
Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board's  Statement  No.  123,  "Accounting for
Stock-Based  Compensation"  (FASB  123).  See  Note  9  of Notes to Consolidated
Financial  Statements.

     Use  of  estimates

The  preparation  of  financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect  the  reported  amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities  and  disclosure of
contingent  liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts  of  net  revenues  and  expenses  during  the  reporting  period.  Such
estimates  relate  to  the  useful  lives of fixed assets and intangible assets,
allowances  for  doubtful  accounts,  pricing  adjustments,  customer  returns,
inventory  reserves,  international distributor sell-through, potential reserves
relating  to  litigation  matters as well as other accruals or reserves.  Actual
results may differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to
the  financial  statements.

     New  Accounting  Pronouncement

In  June  1998,  the  Financial  Accounting  Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 133, (FASB 133), "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments  and  Hedging  Activities",  which requires adoption in fiscal years
beginning  after  June  15,  2000  while  earlier  adoption  is permitted at the
beginning  of  any  fiscal  quarter.  The Company is required to adopt by fiscal
2002.  The  effect  of adopting the Standard is currently being evaluated but is
not  expected to have a material effect on the Company's consolidated results of
operations  or  financial  position.  FASB  133  will  require  the  Company  to
recognize  all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value.  Derivatives that
are  not hedges must be adjusted to fair value through income. If the derivative
is  a  hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of
derivatives will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged
assets,  liabilities,  or  firm  commitments  through  earnings or recognized in
accumulated  other  comprehensive  income until the hedged item is recognized in
earnings.  The  ineffective  portion,  if  any, of a derivative's change in fair
value  will  be  immediately  recognized  in  earnings.

     Concentrations  of  credit  risk

The  Company  attempts to mitigate the concentration of credit risk in its trade
receivables  with  respect  to  the  high-technology industry with the Company's
credit  evaluation  process,  relatively  short  collection  terms,  distributor
agreements,  sales  among  various  end-user  applications  throughout  the
high-technology  market  and  the geographical dispersion of sales.  The Company
generally  does  not  require  collateral.  Bad  debt  write-offs  have  been
insignificant  for  all  years  presented.

     Concentration  of  other  risks

The  semiconductor  industry  is  characterized  by  rapid technological change,
intense  competitive  pressure  and  cyclical  market  patterns.  The  Company's
results  of  operations  are  affected  by  a wide variety of factors, including
general  economic  conditions,  conditions  specifically  relating to technology
companies  and  the  semiconductor industry, decreases in average selling prices
over the life of any particular product, the timing of new product introductions
(by  the  Company,  its  competitors  and  others),  the  ability to manufacture
sufficient  quantities  of  a  given  product  in  a  timely  manner, the timely
implementation  of  new  manufacturing  process  technologies,  the  ability  to
safeguard  patents and intellectual property from competitors, and the impact of
new  technologies  resulting  in rapid escalation of demand for some products in
the  face  of  equally steep decline in demand for others.  Based on the factors
noted  herein,  the  Company  may  experience  substantial  period-to-period
fluctuations  in  future  operating  results.

NOTE  3.  ACCOUNTING  CHANGE  -  DEFERRED  REVENUE  RECOGNITION  ON  SALES  TO
INTERNATIONAL  DISTRIBUTORS

During  the  fourth  quarter  of fiscal 1999, the Company changed its accounting
method  for  recognizing revenue on all shipments to international distributors.
The  change  was  made  retroactive  to the beginning of fiscal 1999.  While the
Company  previously deferred revenue on shipments to domestic distributors until
the  products  were sold to the end user, it recognized revenue upon shipment to
international  distributors,  net  of  appropriate  reserves  for  returns  and
allowances.  Following  the  accounting change, revenue recognition on shipments
to  distributors  worldwide  is  deferred until the products are sold to the end
customer.  The  Company  believes  that  deferral  of  revenue  on  shipments to
distributors  until the product is shipped by the distributor to an end customer
is  a more meaningful measurement of results of operations as it better conforms
to  the  substance  of  the  transaction  considering  the  changing  business
environment  in  the  international  marketplace,  is  consistent  with industry
practice,  and  accordingly,  it  will  better focus the Company on end customer
sales; therefore it is a preferable method of accounting.  The cumulative effect
of  the  change  in  accounting  method  for  prior  years was a charge of $26.6
million,  net  of $12.0 million in taxes, or $0.17 net income per diluted share.

NOTE  4.  JOINT  VENTURE

The Company, United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC) and other parties entered
into  the  United  Silicon  Inc.  (USIC)  joint  venture  to  construct  a wafer
fabrication facility in Taiwan.  The Company invested an additional $5.4 million
in  USIC  during  fiscal 1999 to bring the total cumulative investment to $107.2
million.  However,  as  other  parties increased their equity in USIC during the
most  recent  investment, the Company decreased its equity ownership from 25% to
20%.  The  Company  has  the right to receive up to 31.25% of the wafer capacity
from this facility.  In fiscal 1999, the Company purchased wafers totaling $18.9
million  from  USIC.  UMC  has  committed  to  and is supplying the Company with
wafers  manufactured in an existing facility until full capacity is available in
the  USIC  facility.  The  Company  is  accounting for this investment using the
equity  method  of  accounting  with  a one-month lag in recording the Company's
share  of results for the entity.  The USIC fiscal 1999 net loss was a result of
the  continued  ramp  up  in  production of the wafer fabrication facility.  The
fiscal  1998  net  income  resulted  primarily  from  favorable foreign currency
exchange  gains  as well as interest earned on its investment portfolio. Through
the  second  quarter  of  fiscal 1998, equity income was immaterial and remained
classified  in  "Interest income and other."  Undistributed earnings of the USIC
joint  venture  totaled  $0.2  million  since  its  inception.

NOTE  5.  FINANCIAL  INSTRUMENTS

     Cash  and  Investments

The  following  is  a  summary  of  available-for-sale  securities:



Realized  gains  or  losses  from  sale  of  available-for-sale  securities were
immaterial  for  all  periods  presented.  Short-term  investments  consist  of
tax-advantaged  municipal  bonds  and  tax-advantaged  auction  rate  preferred
municipal bonds with maturities greater than 90 days but less than one year from
the  balance  sheet  date,  unless funds are specifically identified for current
operations.  Restricted  investments  consist of certificates of deposit held as
collateral  relating  to  leases  for  the  Company's  facilities.  Long-term
investments  consist  of  U.S. Treasury notes and tax-advantaged municipal bonds
with  maturities  greater  than  one year but less than 4 years from the balance
sheet  date,  which  are  not  required  for  current  operations.

In  fiscal  1999,  the Company sold its held-to-maturity, restricted investment,
which  had an amortized cost and fair value of $36.8 million upon sale resulting
in  no  gain  or  loss.  The restricted investment relates to certain collateral
requirements  for  lease  agreements  associated  with  the  Company's corporate
facilities.  The agreement was modified during fiscal 1999 requiring a change in
the  collateral requirements, which resulted in the sale of the security.  Until
its sale in fiscal 1999, the restricted investment was a U.S. Treasury Security,
which  was  classified  as  held-to-maturity  and was $36.3 million at March 31,
1998.  Amortized  cost  approximated estimated fair value.  At the end of fiscal
1999,  the  restricted investment is in the form of a certificate of deposit and
is  classified as available-for-sale with a maturity of less than one year.  See
Note  6  of  Notes  to  Consolidated  Financial  Statements.

     Derivatives

In  fiscal  1999,  the  Company  utilized  currency forward contracts to protect
against  the  net yen exposure created when the Company began purchasing most of
its  wafers  from  Japanese  suppliers  in U.S. dollars yet continued to invoice
Japanese  customers  in  yen.  Realized  losses  of  $2.3  million  were  offset
against  revenue  when there was a firm commitment, otherwise they were included
in  "Interest  income  and  other".  At  March 31, 1999 and 1998, no commitments
under  foreign  currency  forward  or  option  contracts  were  outstanding.

In  fiscal 1997, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a
third  party  in  order  to  reduce risk related to movements in interest rates.
Under  the  agreement, the Company effectively converted the fixed rate interest
payments  related  to $125.0 million of the Company's convertible long-term debt
to  variable  rate  interest  payments  without  the  exchange of the underlying
principal  amounts.  The Company received fixed interest rate payments (equal to
5.935%)  from  the  third party and was obligated to make variable rate payments
(equal  to the three month Libor rate) to the third party during the term of the
agreement.  In fiscal 1999, the interest rate swap agreement terminated, and the
gain  was immaterial.  For the period of time the swap was outstanding, the fair
value of the swap agreement and changes in the fair value as a result of changes
in  market  interest  rates  were  not  material.

In  fiscal  1997, the Company entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to
minimize  the  impact of future exchange fluctuations on the U.S. dollar cost of
investing  in  the  USIC  joint  venture.  The contracts required the Company to
exchange  U.S.  dollars for New Taiwan dollars and matured within one year.  The
contracts  were  accounted  for  as  a hedge of an identifiable foreign currency
commitment.  Realized  losses,  which  were  immaterial,  were  recognized  upon
maturity  of the contracts in fiscal 1998 and included in the USIC joint venture
investment.

     Long-Term  Debt  and  Lines  of  Credit

In  February  1999,  the  Company  converted  in  full  $250.0 million of 5 1/4%
Convertible  Subordinated  Notes  due  2002  (Notes) into a total of 9.8 million
shares  of common stock at a price of $25.50 per share. Interest expense accrued
but  not  paid  prior  to  conversion  of $3.6  million were added to additional
paid-in-capital.  Debt  issuance  costs of $0.7 million were recorded during the
year.  The  unamortized  debt  issuance  costs  as  of  the  redemption  date of
approximately  $3.3  million  were  recorded  as  a  reduction  to  additional
paid-in-capital.

The  Company  has $40 million available under a syndicated bank revolving credit
line  agreement,  which expires in March 2001.  Under this agreement, borrowings
bear  interest  at  the prime rate or 0.625% over the Libor rate.  Additionally,
the  Company's  Ireland  manufacturing  facility  has an additional $6.2 million
available  under  a  multicurrency  credit line, which expires in November 1999.
Under  this  agreement,  borrowings  bear interest at the bank's prime rate.  At
March  31,  1999,  no  borrowings  were outstanding under any credit lines.  The
Company  is  in  full  compliance  with  the  agreement's required covenants and
financial ratios.  The agreements prohibit the payment of cash dividends without
prior  bank  approval.

NOTE  6.  COMMITMENTS

The  Company  leases  most  of  its  manufacturing  and  office facilities under
operating  leases  that  expire  at  various dates through December 2014.  Lease
agreements  for  certain  corporate facilities contain payment provisions, which
allow  for  changes  in  rental  amounts  based upon interest rate changes.  The
approximate future minimum lease payments under operating leases are as follows:

  Years ended March 31,   (In thousands)
                          --------------
          2000                 $   3,723
          2001                     1,681
          2002                     1,508
          2003                     1,235
          2004                       958
          Thereafter                 765
                             -----------
                               $   9,870
                             ===========

Rent  expense  was  approximately $4.5 million for each of the years ended March
31,  1999,  1998  and  1997.

The  Company  has  entered  into  lease agreements relating to certain corporate
facilities which would allow the Company to purchase the facilities on or before
the end of the lease term in December 1999.  If at the end of the lease term the
Company  does  not  purchase  the  property under lease or arrange a third party
purchase,  then  the  Company  would  be obligated to the lessor for a guarantee
payment  equal to a specified percentage of the Company's purchase price for the
property.  The  Company  would  also  be obligated to the lessor for all or some
portion of this amount if the price paid by the third party is below a specified
percentage  of  the  Company's  purchase price.  The Company is also required to
comply  with  certain  covenants  and  maintain certain financial ratios.  As of
March  31, 1999, the total amount related to the leased facilities for which the
Company  is  contingently  liable  is  $39.8  million.  Under  the  terms of the
agreements,  the  Company  is  required  to  maintain  collateral  (restricted
investments)  of  approximately  $34.4 million during the remainder of the lease
term.

During  fiscal  1998, the Company entered into an agreement for a facility to be
built  on  property  adjacent  to  the Company's corporate facilities.  Building
construction  will  be  completed  in  fiscal  2000.  Upon  signing  the  lease
agreement,  the  Company  paid  the lessor $31.3 million for prepaid rent and an
option  to  purchase  the facility.  The rent prepayment covers one year and was
discounted  to  its  present  value.  Additionally, the Company can exercise the
lease  agreement's purchase option between the sixth and twelfth month following
the  commencement date of the lease term.  If the Company elects to exercise the
option,  the  prepaid  purchase  option  will  be  considered  payment  in full.
However, if the Company decides not to exercise the purchase option, the prepaid
option  will  be  returned  without interest at the end of the first year of the
lease.

NOTE  7.  NET  INCOME  PER  SHARE

Basic  net  income  per  share  is  computed by dividing net income available to
common  stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the period.  In computing diluted net income per share, the average stock
price  for  the period is used in determining the number of shares assumed to be
purchased  from  the  exercise  of stock options.  Diluted earnings per share is
computed using the weighted average common and dilutive common equivalent shares
outstanding,  plus other dilutive shares which are not common equivalent shares.

The computation of basic net income per share for all years presented is derived
from  the  information  on  the  face  of the income statement, and there are no
reconciling  items  in either the numerator or denominator.  Additionally, there
are no reconciling items in the numerator used to compute diluted net income per
share.  The  total  shares used in the denominator of the diluted net income per
share  calculation  includes  7.9  million,  12.5  million  and  13.7  million
incremental  common  shares attributable to outstanding options for fiscal years
1999,  1998  and  1997,  respectively.

Before  the  shares  were converted from long-term debt to equity, approximately
9.8  million  shares,  they  were not included in the calculation of diluted net
income  per  share as their inclusion would have had an anti-dilutive effect for
all  periods  presented.  In  addition,  outstanding  options  to  purchase
approximately  4.8  million,  3.7 million and 2.0 million shares, for the fiscal
years  1999,  1998 and 1997, respectively, under the Company's Stock Option Plan
were not included in the treasury stock calculation to derive diluted income per
share  as  their  inclusion  would  have  had  an  anti-dilutive  effect.

NOTE  8.  COMPREHENSIVE  INCOME

The  Company  adopted  the  Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130
(FASB  130),  "Reporting  Comprehensive  Income"  in the first quarter of fiscal
1999.  FASB  130  established  standards  for  the  reporting  and disclosure of
comprehensive  income  and its components; however, the disclosure has no impact
on  the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
flows.  Comprehensive  income  is  defined  as the change in equity of a company
during  a  period  resulting  from  certain  transactions  and  other events and
circumstances,  excluding  transactions resulting from investments by owners and
distributions  to  owners.  The  difference between net income and comprehensive
income  for  Xilinx  is  from  foreign  currency  translation  adjustments  and
unrealized  gains  or  losses  on  the  Company's available-for-sale securities.

The  components  of  accumulated  other  comprehensive income net of related tax
effects  for  the  fiscal  years  1999,  1998  and  1997  are  as  follows:




Cumulative  translation  adjustments  are  not  tax  affected.

NOTE  9.  STOCKHOLDERS'  EQUITY

The  Company's  Certificate  of Incorporation provides for 300 million shares of
common  stock  and  2  million  shares  of  undesignated  preferred  stock.

     Treasury  Stock

The  Company authorized a stock buyback program in December 1997 whereby up to 4
million  shares  of  the  Company's  common stock could be purchased in the open
market  from  time  to  time  as market and business conditions warranted.  This
program was completed in November 1998.  In April and September 1998, additional
stock repurchase programs were authorized to each buyback up to 6 million shares
of  its  common  stock.  The Company has reissued treasury shares repurchased in
response  to  Employee  Stock  Option  exercises  and  Employee  Qualified Stock
Purchase  Plan  requirements  as  well  as in conjunction with its redemption of
convertible  debt.  During fiscal 1999 and 1998, the Company repurchased a total
of  5,616,000  and 4,660,000 shares of common stock for $113.8 million and $93.8
million,  respectively.  In fiscal 1999 and 1998, 8,378,000 and 1,842,000 shares
were reissued, respectively.  As a result, the Company was holding approximately
138,000  treasury  stock  shares  at  March  31,  1999.

     Stock  split

On  January  18, 1999, the Company's Board of Directors approved a 2 for 1 split
of  the  Company's  Common Stock, which was effected in the form of a 100% stock
dividend.  On  March  11,  1999  shareholders  of record as of February 18, 1999
received  one  additional  share of Common Stock for every share currently held.
Shares,  per  share  amounts,  common stock, and additional paid-in capital have
been  restated  to  reflect  the  stock  split  for  all  periods  presented.

     Stockholder  Rights  Plan

In  October  1991,  the Company adopted a stockholder rights plan and declared a
dividend distribution of one preferred stock purchase right for each outstanding
share  of common stock.  The rights become exercisable based upon the occurrence
of  certain  conditions  including  acquisitions  of  Company  stock,  tender or
exchange  offers  and  certain business combination transactions of the Company.
In  the  event  one  of  the  conditions  is  triggered, each right entitles the
registered  holder  to  purchase  a  number  of shares of preferred stock of the
Company  or,  under  limited  circumstances,  of  the  acquirer.  The rights are
redeemable at the Company's option, under certain conditions, for $.01 per right
and  expire  on  October  4,  2001.

     Employee  Stock  Option  Plans

Under  existing  stock  option plans (Option Plans), options reserved for future
issuance  to  employees  and  directors  of the Company total 34,391,000 shares.
Options  to purchase shares of the Company's common stock under the Option Plans
are  granted at 100% of the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant.
Options  granted to date expire ten years from date of grant and vest at varying
rates  over  four  or  five  years.

A  summary  of  the  Company's  Option  Plans activity, and related information,
follows:



The  following  information relates to options outstanding and exercisable under
the  Option  Plan  at  March  31,  1999:



At  March  31,  1998,  14.2  million  options  were  exercisable.

     Employee  Qualified  Stock  Purchase  Plan

Under  the Company's 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Stock Purchase
Plan),  qualified  employees  can elect to have up to 15 percent of their annual
earnings  withheld, up to a maximum of $21,250, to purchase the Company's common
stock  at  the  end  of six-month enrollment periods.  The purchase price of the
stock  is  85%  of  the  lower  of the fair market value at the beginning of the
twenty-four  month  offering  period  or  at  the end of each six-month purchase
period.  Almost  all  employees  are  eligible to participate.  Under this plan,
807,000  and  722,000 shares were issued during 1999 and 1998, respectively, and
4,823,000  shares  were  available  for  issuance  at  March  31,  1999.

     Stock-Based  Compensation

As  permitted  under  FASB  Statement  No.  123,  "Accounting  for  Stock-Based
Compensation"  (FASB  123),  the  Company  has  elected  to  continue  to follow
Accounting  Principles  Board  Opinion  No.  25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees"  (APB  25)  and  related  Interpretations  in  accounting  for  its
stock-based awards to employees.  Under APB 25, the Company generally recognizes
no  compensation  expense  with  respect  to  such  awards.

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
FASB  123  and has been determined as if the Company had accounted for awards to
employees  under  the  fair  value  method of FASB 123.  The fair value of stock
options  and stock purchase plan rights under the Option Plan and Stock Purchase
Plan  was  estimated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model.  The  Black-Scholes  model was originally developed for use in estimating
the  fair  value  of  traded options and requires the input of highly subjective
assumptions  including  expected  stock  price  volatility.  The Company's stock
options  and  stock  purchase  plan  rights  have  characteristics significantly
different  from  those  of  traded  options, and changes in the subjective input
assumptions  can  materially  affect the fair value estimate.  The fair value of
stock options and stock purchase plan rights granted in fiscal years 1999, 1998,
and  1997 were estimated at the date of grant assuming no expected dividends and
the  following  weighted  average  assumptions.



For  purposes  of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of stock-based
awards  is  amortized  against pro forma net income over the stock-based awards'
vesting  period.  Because  FASB  123  is applicable only to the Company's awards
granted  subsequent  to  March  31, 1995, its pro forma effect will not be fully
reflected  until  approximately  fiscal  2000.  Had  the  Company  accounted for
stock-based  awards  to employees under FASB 123, the Company's net income would
have been $65.2 million, $95.6 million and $87.4 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.  Basic net income per share would have been $0.45, $0.65 and $0.60
in  1999,  1998 and 1997, respectively, while diluted net income per share would
have  been  $0.42,  $0.63  and  $0.56,  respectively.

Calculated  under FASB 123, the weighted-average fair value of the stock options
granted  during  1999,  1998  and  1997  was $13.80, $10.69 and $7.96 per share,
respectively.  The  weighted-average fair value of stock purchase rights granted
under  the  Stock Purchase Plan during 1999, 1998 and 1997 were $9.96, $7.25 and
$7.24  per  share,  respectively.

NOTE  10.  INCOME  TAXES



The tax benefits associated with the disqualifying dispositions of stock options
or  employee  stock purchase plan shares reduce taxes currently payable by $34.9
million,  $16.1  million,  and  $16.7  million  for  1999,  1998,  and  1997,
respectively.  Such  benefits  are  credited  to additional paid-in capital when
realized.  Pretax  income  from  foreign  operations  was  $61.2  million, $55.5
million,  and $36.1 million for fiscal years 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.
Unremitted  foreign  earnings  that  are  considered  to be permanently invested
outside  the  United  States  and on which no deferred taxes have been provided,
accumulated  to  approximately $50.8 million as of March 31, 1999.  The residual
U.S.  tax liability, if such amounts were remitted, would be approximately $12.7
million.

The provision for income taxes reconciles to the amount obtained by applying the
Federal  statutory  income  tax  rate  to  income  before provision for taxes as
follows:




The  major  components  of  deferred  tax  assets and liabilities consist of the
following:




NOTE  11.  SEGMENT  INFORMATION

The Company adopted the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement No. 131
(FASB  131),  "Disclosures  about  Segments  of  an  Enterprise  and  Related
Information".  The new standard revises the way operating segments are reported.
The  Company  operates  and  tracks  its  results in one operating segment.  The
Company  designs,  develops and markets programmable logic semiconductor devices
and  the  related  software  design  tools.

Enterprise wide information is provided in accordance with FASB 131.  Geographic
revenue  information  for  the  fiscal years 1999, 1998 and 1997 is based on the
shipment  location.  Long-lived  assets include property, plant and equipment as
well  as  intangible assets including, developed technology, assembled workforce
and  goodwill.  Property,  plant  and  equipment  information  is  based  on the
physical  location  of  the  asset  at  the  end  of  each fiscal year while the
intangibles  are  based  on  the  location  of  the  owning  entity.

Net  Revenues  from unaffiliated customers by geographic region were as follows:




Net  long-lived  assets  by  country  was  as  follows:




No  end  customer  accounted for more than 10% of revenues in 1999,1998 or 1997.
Approximately  20%,  14% and 15% of net revenues were made through the Company's
largest  domestic  distributor  in  1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.  A second
domestic  distributor accounted for approximately 17% and 11% of net revenues in
fiscal  1999  and  1998,  respectively.

NOTE  12.  LITIGATION

On  June  7, 1993, the Company filed suit against Altera Corporation (Altera) in
the  United  States  District  Court for the Northern District of California for
infringement  of  certain  of the Company's patents.  Subsequently, Altera filed
suit  against  the  Company,  alleging  that  certain  of the Company's products
infringe  certain Altera patents.  Fact and expert discovery have been completed
in both cases, which have been consolidated.  On April 20, 1995, Altera filed an
additional  suit  against the Company in the Federal District Court in Delaware,
alleging  that  the  Company's  XC5200  family  infringes an Altera patent.  The
Company  answered the Delaware suit denying that the XC5200 family infringes the
patent  in suit, asserting certain affirmative defenses and counterclaiming that
the  Altera  Max  9000  family  infringes certain of the Company's patents.  The
Delaware  suit  was  transferred  to  the  United  States District Court for the
Northern  District of California and is also before the same judge.  Both Altera
and  the  Company  have  filed motions with the Court for summary judgement with
respect  to  certain of the issues pending in the litigation.  Those motions are
still  pending.

On  July  22, 1998, Altera and Joseph Ward, a former Xilinx employee, filed suit
against the Company in Superior Court in Santa Clara County, California, arising
out  of  the  Company's  efforts  to  prevent  disclosure  of  certain  Company
confidential  information.  Altera's suit requests declaratory relief and claims
the  Company  engages  in  unfair  business  practices  and  interference  with
contractual  relations.  On  September  10,  1998 the Company filed cross claims
against  Altera  and  Ward  for unfair competition and breach of contract, among
other  claims,  in  the California action.  On October 20, 1998, Altera and Ward
filed  crossclaims against the Company for malicious prosecution of civil action
and  defamation.

The  ultimate  outcome  of  these  matters  cannot  be  determined at this time.
Management  believes  that  it  has  meritorious  defenses to such claims and is
defending them vigorously.  The foregoing is a forward-looking statement subject
to risks and uncertainties, and the future outcome of these matters could differ
materially  due to the uncertain nature of each legal proceeding and because the
lawsuits  are  still  in  the  pre-discovery  or  pre-trial  stages.

On July 31, 1998, the Lemelson Foundation Partnership (Lemelson) filed a lawsuit
in  the United States District Court in Phoenix, Arizona against the Company and
twenty-five (25) other United States semiconductor companies for infringement of
certain  of  its  patents.  During the third quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company
entered  into  a  license  settlement  with  Lemelson.  In  response,  Lemelson
dismissed  with  prejudice  all  claims  against  the  Company.

In  addition,  in  the normal course of business, the Company receives and makes
inquiries  with regard to possible patent infringement.  Where deemed advisable,
the  Company  may seek or extend licenses or negotiate settlements.  Outcomes of
such  negotiations  may  not  be  determinable  at  any  point in time; however,
management does not believe that such licenses or settlements will, individually
or  in  the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position  or  results  of  operations.

NOTE  13.  WRITE-OFF  OF  IN-PROCESS  TECHNOLOGY AND DISCONTINUED PRODUCT FAMILY

In  January 1999, the Company acquired certain assets of MI Acquisition LLP, for
a  total purchase price of $6.8 million.  The purchase price allocation based on
an  independent  appraisal  resulted  in  a  $3.6 million charge to research and
development  in  the  fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  1999  for acquired in-process
technology.  The  acquired  in-process technology represents the appraised value
of  technology  in  the development stage that had not yet reached technological
feasibility  and  does  not  have  alternative  future  uses.

During  fiscal  1997,  the  Company  discontinued  the XC8100 family of one-time
programmable  antifuse  devices.  As  a  result,  the  Company recorded a pretax
charge  against  earnings of $5.0 million.  This charge primarily related to the
write-off  of  inventory  and  for  termination  charges  related  to  purchase
commitments  to  foundry  partners  for  work-in-process  wafers  which  had not
completed  the  manufacturing  process.



REPORT  OF  ERNST  &  YOUNG  LLP,  INDEPENDENT  AUDITORS

The  Board  of  Directors  and  Stockholders
Xilinx,  Inc.

We  have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Xilinx, Inc. as
of  March  31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated statements of income,
stockholders'  equity  and  cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended March 31, 1999.  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed  in the Index at Item 14(a).  These financial statements and schedule are
the  responsibility  of  the  Company's  management.  Our  responsibility  is to
express  an  opinion  on  these  financial  statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant estimates made by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a  reasonable  basis  for  our opinion.

In  our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Xilinx,
Inc.  at March 31, 1999 and 1998, and the consolidated results of its operations
and  its  cash  flows  for each of the three years in the period ended March 31,
1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in our
opinion,  the  related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation
to  the  basic  financial  statements  taken  as a whole, presents fairly in all
material  respects  the  information  set  forth  therein.

As  discussed  in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements, in the
fiscal  year ended March 31, 1999, the Company changed its method of recognizing
revenue  on  certain  shipments  to  its  distributors.



                                                          /s/  Ernst & Young LLP


San  Jose,  California
April  21,  1999






SUPPLEMENTARY  FINANCIAL  DATA

QUARTERLY  DATA  (UNAUDITED)





QUARTERLY  DATA  (UNAUDITED)




ITEM  9.        CHANGES  IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL  DISCLOSURE

None.



                                    PART III
                                    --------


Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Report in that the
Registrant  will  file  a  definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A
(the  Proxy  Statement) not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Report, and certain information included therein is incorporated
herein  by  reference.  Only  those  sections  of  the  Proxy  Statement  which
specifically  address  the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference.
Such  incorporation  does  not  include the Compensation Committee Report or the
Performance  Graph  included  in  the  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  10.       DIRECTORS  AND  EXECUTIVE  OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGISTRANT

The  information  concerning  the  Company's  directors required by this Item is
incorporated  by  reference  to  the  Company's  Proxy  Statement.

The  information  concerning  the  Company's executive officers required by this
Item  is  incorporated  by  reference  to  the section in Item 1 hereof entitled
"Executive  Officers  of  the  Registrant".

ITEM  11.       EXECUTIVE  COMPENSATION

The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  12.       SECURITY  OWNERSHIP  OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.

ITEM  13.       CERTAIN  RELATIONSHIPS  AND  RELATED  TRANSACTIONS

The  information  required  by  this  Item  is  incorporated by reference to the
Company's  Proxy  Statement.


                                     PART IV
                                     -------


ITEM  14.       EXHIBITS,  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    (1)  The Financial Statements required by Item 14 (a) are filed as Item 8
of  this  annual  report.

       (2)  The Financial Statement Schedule reqquired by Item 14 (a) is file as
Item  8  of  this  annual  report.

Schedules  not  filed have been omitted because they are not applicable, are not
required  or the information required to be set forth therein is included in the
financial  statements  or  notes  thereto.

       (3)  The  exhibits  listed  below  in  (c) are filed or incorporated by
reference  as  part  of  this  annual  report.

(b)    Reports  on  Form  8-K.   No  reports  on  Form 8-K were filed during the
       ----------------------
fourth  quarter  of  fiscal  1999.

(c)    Exhibits.
       --------








                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant  to  the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act  of 1934, the Registrant, has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on
its  behalf  by  the  undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of San
Jose,  State  of  California,  on  the  16th  day  of  June,  1999.

                                         XILINX,  INC.



                                         By:   /s/  Willem  P.  Roelandts
                                         --------------------------------
                                         Willem  P.  Roelandts,
                                         Chief Executive Officer and President




