ITEM 1.Business



Overview



We are a leading developer, manufacturer, and marketer of life
    science tools and integrated systems for the analysis of genetic
    variation and function. We were incorporated in California in
    April 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000. Our
    principal executive offices are located at 9885 Towne Centre
    Drive, San Diego, California 92121. Our telephone number is(858) 202-4500.



Using our proprietary technologies, we provide a comprehensive
    line of genetic analysis solutions, with products and services
    that serve a broad range of highly interconnected markets,
    including sequencing, genotyping, gene expression, and molecular
    diagnostics. Our customers include leading genomic research
    centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and
    clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical,
    biotechnology, agrigenomics, and consumer genomics companies.





Our operating structure is divided into two business segments,
    the Life Sciences Business Unit and the Diagnostics Business
    Unit. During 2010, our Diagnostics Business Unit had limited
    business activity and, accordingly, operating results for both
    units are reported on an aggregate basis as one operating
    segment. At each reporting period end, we will reassess our
    reportable operating segments, particularly as we continue to
    develop our molecular diagnostics business.



Industry
    Background



Genetics
    Primer



The instruction set for all living cells is encoded in
    deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, with the complete set of DNA for
    any organism referred to as its genome. DNA contains small
    regions called genes, which comprise a string of nucleotide
    bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine, cytosine,
    guanine, and thymine, respectively. These nucleotide bases are
    present in a precise order known as the DNA sequence. When a
    gene is “expressed,” a partial copy of its DNA
    sequence — called messenger RNA (mRNA) — is
    used as a template





to direct the synthesis of a protein. Proteins in turn, direct
    all cellular function. The illustration below is a simplified
    gene expression schematic.







Variations among organisms are due in large part to differences
    in their DNA sequences. Changes caused by insertions, deletions,
    inversions, or duplications of nucleotide bases may result in
    certain genes becoming over-expressed (excessive protein
    production), under-expressed (reduced protein production), or
    silenced altogether, sometimes triggering changes in cellular
    function. These changes can be the result of heredity, but most
    often occur at random. The most common form of variation in
    humans is called a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), which
    is a variation in a single position of a nucleotide base in a
    DNA sequence. Copy number variations (CNVs) occur when there are
    fewer or more copies of certain genes.



In humans, genetic variation accounts for many of the physical
    differences we see (height, hair, eye color, etc.). More
    importantly, these genetic variations can have medical
    consequences affecting disease susceptibility, including
    predisposition to complex genetic diseases such as cancer,
    diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer’s disease.
    They can also impact an individual’s response to certain
    drug treatments, causing them to respond well, not respond at
    all, or experience adverse side effects — an area of
    study known as pharmacogenomics.



Scientists are studying these variations and their consequences
    in humans, as well as a broad range of animals, plants, and
    microorganisms. Researchers investigating human, viral, and
    bacterial genetic variation are helping us to better understand
    the mechanisms of disease and develop more effective
    therapeutics and diagnostics. Greater insight into genetic
    variation in plants (e.g., food and biofuel crops) and animals
    (e.g., livestock and domestic animals) is enabling scientists to
    improve crop yields and animal breeding programs.



The methods for studying genetic variation and biological
    function include sequencing, SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene
    expression profiling, and gene regulation analysis, each of
    which is addressed by our breadth of products and services.



Life
    Sciences Research Primer



Life science research encompasses the study of all living
    things, from humans, animals, and plants, to viruses and
    bacteria. It is being performed in government, university,
    pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and agrigenomics laboratories
    around the world, where scientists are seeking to expand our
    knowledge of the biological functions essential for life.
    Beginning at the genetic level, where our tools are used to
    elucidate the correlation between gene sequence and biological
    processes, life science research expands to include the study of
    the cells, tissues, organs, systems, and other components that
    make up living organisms. This research





supports development of new, more effective clinical diagnostics
    and medicines to improve human health, as well as advances in
    agriculture and animal husbandry to meet the world’s
    growing needs for food and energy.



Molecular
    Diagnostics Primer



Molecular diagnostic assays (or tests) are designed to identify
    the biological indicators linked with disease and drug
    metabolism, providing physicians with information to more
    effectively diagnose, treat, and monitor both acute and chronic
    disease conditions. They are an integral part of personalized
    healthcare, where the unique makeup of each individual will be
    taken into account in diagnosing disease and managing treatment
    through the use of more tailored therapies. Biological
    indicators that can be measured by these assays include protein
    or gene expression, methylation levels, copy number variations,
    and the presence or absence of a specific gene or group of genes.



There are molecular diagnostic assays on the market for
    infectious disease, cancer, and heart disease, as well as
    molecular-based drug metabolism assays to help physicians select
    the most effective therapy with the fewest side effects. Our
    innovative technologies and products are contributing to the
    development of a wide-range of potential molecular diagnostic
    assays. Our own efforts in this area are currently focused on
    the identification of certain genetic markers with potential
    diagnostic and therapeutic utility.



Growing news coverage about the clinical relevance of newly
    discovered genetic markers has prompted consumers’ interest
    in having their personal genomes analyzed, sparking the
    development of the consumer genomics market. We believe there
    are distinct medical benefits, especially for people with family
    histories of certain diseases, of knowing your disease
    predisposition. Several companies, including Illumina, now offer
    personal sequencing or genotyping services, working with
    physician groups and genetic counselors to interpret the results
    for consumers.



We believe the growth in consumer genomics and the use of
    molecular diagnostic assays will trigger a fundamental shift in
    the practice of medicine and the economics of the pharmaceutical
    industry by facilitating an increased emphasis on preventative
    and predictive molecular medicine, ushering in the era of
    personalized medicine.



Our
    Principal Markets



From the company’s inception, we have believed that the
    analysis of genetic variation and function will play an
    increasingly important role in molecular biology, and that by
    empowering genetic analysis, our tools will advance disease
    research, drug development, and the creation of molecular tests.
    In addition to developing sequencing- and array-based solutions
    for life science, applied, and consumer genomics markets, we are
    making inroads into the emerging market of molecular diagnostics.



Life
    Sciences Research Market



The life sciences research market consists of laboratories
    generally associated with universities, medical research
    centers, government institutions, as well as biotechnology and
    pharmaceutical companies. Researchers at these institutions are
    using our products and services in a broad spectrum of
    scientific activities, such as: next-generation sequencing,mid-to-high-complexitygenotyping and gene expression (for whole-genome discovery and
    profiling), and low complexity genotyping and gene expression
    (for high-throughput targeted screening). DNA sequencing is
    growing the most rapidly among these three areas due to the
    creation of next-generation sequencing technologies, such as
    SBS. It is fueled by private and public funding, new global
    initiatives to broadly characterize genetic variation, and the
    migration of legacy genetic applications to sequencing-based
    technologies.



Applied
    Markets



We provide products and services for various other markets,
    which we refer to as “applied markets.” The largest
    among these is the “Agbio” market, where government
    and corporate researchers use our sequencing- and array-based
    tools to accelerate and enhance agricultural research. For
    example, we currently offer





microarrays that contain SNPs for custom and focused genotyping
    of seeds and crops (such as maize) and livestock (such as
    cattle, horses, pigs, and sheep). Customers use them to perform
    selective breeding, accelerating and enhancing the process over
    traditional methods such as cross-breeding.



Molecular
    Diagnostics Market





Consumer
    Genomics Markets



New sequencing and genotyping technologies, such as those
    developed by Illumina, are driving down the cost of performing
    analyses which are increasingly valuable in diagnosing disease
    and evaluating disease risk. Consumer genomics is a nascent
    market, but one we believe has the potential for high growth as
    the cost per analysis continues to drop. In June 2009, we
    launched our Individual Genome Sequencing Service, the first
    physician-intermediated personal genome sequencing service for
    consumers. Built around physician-patient consultation, the
    service requires a physician’s order to initiate the
    process, with genome sequencing performed using our
    CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory. We have established
    collaborations with partners to perform the secondary data
    analysis of a personal genome (such as calculation of disease
    risk, ancestry, and information on traits of interest). Some of
    our partners, as well as other companies in thedirect-to-consumermarket, use our genotyping technology and products to perform
    personal genotyping services.



Our
    Principal Technologies



Our unique technology platforms enable the scale of
    experimentation necessary for genome-wide discovery, target
    selection, and validation studies (see Figure 1 below). More
    than 2,500 customer-authored scientific publications have been
    published to date using these technologies, representing the
    efforts of a large and dynamic Illumina user community. Through
    rapid innovation, we believe we are changing the economics of
    genetic research, enabling projects once considered
    unapproachable to now be within reach of more investigators.





Figure 1: Illumina Platform Overview:







Sequencing
    Technology



DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of
    nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample. Our HiSeq
    2000, HiSeq 1000, Genome Analyzer IIx, and HiScanSQ systems
    represent a family of systems that we believe are setting the
    standard for productivity, cost-effectiveness, and accuracy
    among next-generation sequencing technologies. They are used by
    customers to perform whole-genome, de novo, and targeted
    re-sequencing of genomes, and to analyze specific gene regions
    and genes. In January 2011, we announced the MiSeq Personal
    Sequencing System, which will expand our family of sequencing
    systems to include a low-cost personal sequencing system that
    will provide individual researchers a sequencing platform that
    can go from purified DNA to analyzed data in as few as eight
    hours or can generate in excess of 1 gigabase (Gb) per run in
    slightly over a day.



Whole-genome sequencing determines an organism’s complete
    DNA sequence. In de novo sequencing, the goal is to sequence a
    representative sample from a species never before sequenced. In
    targeted re-sequencing, a sequence of nucleotide bases is
    compared to a standard or reference sequence from a previously
    sequenced species to identify changes that reflect genetic
    variation. Understanding the similarities and differences in DNA
    sequence between and within species furthers our understanding
    of the function of the structures encoded in the DNA.



Our DNA sequencing technology is based on our proprietary
    reversible terminator-based sequencing chemistry, referred to as
    sequencing by synthesis (SBS) biochemistry. In SBS, single
    stranded DNA is extended from a priming site, one base at a
    time, using reversible terminator nucleotides. These are DNA
    bases that can be added to a growing second strand, but which
    initially cannot be further extended. This means that at each
    cycle of the chemistry, only one base can be added. Each base
    that is added includes a fluorescent label that is specific to
    the particular base (A, C, G, or T). Following incorporation,
    the emitted light can be imaged to determine its color and thus
    determine the base. Once this is done, an additional step
    removes both the fluorescence and the blocking group that had
    prevented further extension of the second





strand. This allows another base to be added, and the cycle can
    then be repeated. Our technology is capable of generating over
    600 billion bases of DNA sequence from a single experiment
    with a single sample preparation. Key aspects of the SBS
    chemistry are the subject of significant intellectual property
    owned by us.



In our DNA sequencing systems, we apply the SBS biochemistry on
    microscopic clusters of DNA. Each cluster starts as a single DNA
    molecule fragment, typically a few hundred bases long, attached
    to the inside surface of a flow cell. We then use a proprietary
    amplification biochemistry to create copies of each starting
    molecule. As the copies are made, they are covalently linked to
    the surface, so they cannot diffuse away. After a number of
    cycles of amplification, each cluster might have approximately
    1,000 copies of the original starting molecule, but still be
    only about a micron (one-millionth of a meter) in diameter. By
    making so many copies, the fluorescent signal from each cluster
    is significantly increased. Because the clusters are so small,
    hundreds of millions of clusters can be independently formed
    inside a single flow cell. This large number of clusters can
    then be sequenced simultaneously by alternate cycles of SBS
    biochemistry and fluorescent imaging. Sequence reads are
    analyzed using specially developed data analysis software.



With the ability to generate over 600 Gb of DNA sequence per
    run, our SBS sequencing technology provides researchers with the
    broadest range of applications and the opportunity to sequence
    even large mammalian genomes in days rather than weeks or years.
    Since the launch of our first Genome Analyzer in 2007, our
    systems have reduced the cost of sequencing by more than a
    factor of 100.



BeadArray
    Technology



Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a
    substrate in a proprietary manufacturing process to produce
    arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously, enabling
    large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological
    function in a unique high-throughput, cost effective, and
    flexible manner. The arrays manufactured using BeadArray
    technology are imaged by our iScan and HiScanSQ systems for a
    broad range of DNA and RNA analysis applications including SNP
    discovery, SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression
    analysis, and methylation analysis.



Our proprietary BeadArray technology consists of microscopic
    silica beads, each bead covered with hundreds of thousands of
    copies of oligonucleotides, or oligos, that act as the capture
    sequences in one of our assays. We deploy our BeadArray
    technology on BeadChips; silicon wafers the size of a microscope
    slide, with varying numbers of sample sites per slide. BeadChips
    are chemically etched to create tens of millions of wells for
    each sample site.



We create unique bead pools, or sensors, for different DNA and
    RNA analysis applications by affixing thousands to millions of
    copies of a specific type of oligonucleotide molecule to each of
    the billions of microscopic beads in a batch. We make different
    batches of beads, with the beads in a given batch coated with
    one particular type of molecule. The particular molecules on a
    bead define that bead’s function as a sensor. To form an
    array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact with the
    array surface where they are randomly drawn into the wells, one
    bead per well. Because the beads assemble randomly into the
    wells, we perform a final procedure called “decoding”
    to determine which bead type occupies which well in the array.
    We employ several proprietary methods for decoding, which is a
    process that requires only a few steps to identify all the beads
    in the array. One beneficial by-product of the decoding process
    is a functional validation of each bead in the array. This
    quality control test characterizes the performance of each bead
    and can identify and eliminate use of any empty wells. We ensure
    that each bead type on the array is sufficiently represented by
    including multiple copies of each bead type. Multiple bead type
    copies improve the reliability and accuracy of the resulting
    data by allowing statistical processing of the results of
    identical beads.



An experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as DNA,
    and introducing it to the array. The molecules in the sample
    bind to their matching molecules on the coated beads. The
    molecules in either the sample or on the bead are labeled with
    fluorescent dye either before or after the binding, which can be
    detected by shining a laser on the BeadChip. This allows the
    detection of the molecules resulting in a quantitative analysis
    of the sample.





Using our BeadArray technology, we achieve high-throughput
    analysis with a high density of test sites per array, and are
    able to format arrays in various configurations. We seek to
    maximize cost effectiveness by reducing consumption of expensive
    consumables and valuable samples and through the low
    manufacturing costs associated with our technologies. Our
    ability to vary the size, shape, and format of the well patterns
    and to create specific bead pools for different applications
    provides the flexibility to address multiple markets and market
    segments. These features enable our BeadArray technology to be
    applied to high-growth markets of SNP genotyping and CNV
    analysis, and have allowed us to be a key player in the gene
    expression market.



VeraCode
    Technology



Our proprietary VeraCode technology is a detection method for
    multiplex assays that require high precision, accuracy, and
    speed. When deployed on our BeadXpress Reader System, VeraCode
    technology provides a high-throughput solution for biomarker
    research and validation, pharmaceutical development, industrial
    and agriculture testing, clinical research, forensics, and
    molecular diagnostic assay development.



The VeraCode technology platform leverages the power of digital
    holographic codes to provide a detection method for multiplex
    assays. VeraCode enables low-cost multiplexing from 1 to
    384-plex in a single well. The VeraCode technology consists of
    cylindrical glass beads (measuring 240 microns in length by 28
    microns in diameter) inscribed with a unique digital holographic
    code to designate and track the specific analyte or genotype of
    interest throughout the multiplex reaction. When excited by a
    laser, each VeraCode bead emits a unique code image, allowing
    for quick and specific detection by the BeadXpress Reader System.



Depending on the desired multiplex levels, assays are created by
    pooling microbeads with code diversities from one to several
    hundred. Unlike traditional microarrays, the VeraCode microbeads
    are used in solution, which takes advantage of solution-phase
    kinetics for more rapid hybridization times, dramatically
    reducing the time to achieve results.



In December 2009, we began offering VeraCode Universal Capture
    and Carboxyl Beads as General Purpose Reagents (GPRs). These
    royalty-free VeraCode GPR Beads provide customers with a
    flexible, high-quality, cost-effective multiplexing platform to
    develop their own custom multiplex assays for genotyping, CNV,
    gene expression, methylation, and protein analysis studies.



Eco
    Real-Time PCR Technology



In April 2010, we purchased Helixis, Inc. and its novel
    real-time PCR technology, and in July 2010 introduced the Eco
    Real-Time PCR System to the market. Real-Time PCR (also known as
    quantitative PCR or qPCR) is used to amplify and simultaneously
    quantify a targeted DNA molecule, with applications in gene
    expression, viral quantification, array data validation,
    pathogen detection, and genotyping. The procedure follows the
    same steps as PCR, whereby thermal cycling (alternately heating
    and cooling the DNA sample from 20 to 40 times) causes the DNA
    to self-replicate, resulting in the doubling of DNA product with
    each cycle. Real-time PCR uses various fluorescent detection
    chemistries to enable the monitoring of the PCR reaction as it
    progresses. Data are collected at each cycle rather than at the
    end of the reaction, providing higher precision, increased
    sensitivity, increased dynamic range, and higher resolution.



The Eco System combines a proprietary thermal system, four-color
    multiplex capabilities, and a fine-tuned optical system to
    deliver accurate qPCR results. Its unique design provides
    superior thermal uniformity, supporting high-quality PCR
    performance for demanding applications such as high resolution
    melt (HRM) curve analysis used for SNP genotyping, DNA
    fingerprinting, species identification, HLA compatibility
    typing, allelic prevalence, and DNA methylation analysis.
    Measuring just over one cubic foot in size, we believe the Eco
    System’s overall performance rivals larger, more expensive
    systems and provides us with a highly differentiated entry into
    this market.





Our
    Products



Using our proprietary technologies, our products give our
    customers the ability to analyze the genome at any level of
    complexity, from whole-genome sequencing to low-multiplex
    assays, and enable us to serve a number of markets, including
    research, agriculture, forensics, pharmaceuticals, and molecular
    diagnostics.



The majority of our product sales consist of instruments and
    consumables (which include reagents, flow cells, and BeadChips)
    based on our proprietary technologies (see Figure 2 below). For
    the fiscal years ended January 2, 2011, January 3,
    2010, and December 28, 2008, instrument sales comprised
    36%, 34%, and 32%, respectively, of total revenues, and
    consumable sales represented 56%, 59%, and 58%, respectively, of
    total revenues.



Figure 2: Illumina Product Introduction Timeline:







Based on our proprietary SBS technology, our next-generation
    sequencing platforms are designed to meet the workflow, output,
    and accuracy demands of a full range of sequencing applications.
    Designed for high-throughput (up to 600 Gb per run and up to 80
    Gb per day) sequencing, the HiSeq 2000 is fast, easy-to-use, and
    cost-effective, generating the sequence of two human genomes per
    run at 30× coverage for less than $5,000 (USD) in
    consumable cost per genome. Offering the same cost per data
    output and user experience, the HiSeq 1000 accommodates lower
    throughput needs, with an easy upgrade path to the HiSeq 2000.
    The Genome Analyzer IIx offers the simplest and fastest workflow
    for medium to high-throughput applications, generating up to 95
    Gb per run. Introduced in January 2011, with first customer
    shipments expected mid-2011, our MiSeq Personal Sequencing
    System delivers the fastest time to an answer (as little as
    eight hours) and offers a breadth of sequencing applications in
    a compact and economical instrument to meet the needs of
    individual researchers.



Sequencing/Array
    Combination Platforms



The HiScanSQ combines our SBS sequencing technology and iScan
    microarray analysis instrumentation into one system, with a
    modular design that can evolve with changing research needs.
    This flexible system allows researchers to use our sequencing
    and array technologies interactively to bring increased power to
    their experiments.



Array
    Platforms



The iScan System is our dedicated array scanner that supports
    the rapid, sensitive, and accurate imaging of our array-based
    genetic analysis products. It incorporates high-performance
    lasers, optics, and detection systems, deliveringsub-micronresolution and unmatched throughput rates. The iScan supports
    our Infinium, GoldenGate, DASL, gene expression, and methylation
    assays. Our BeadXpress Reader is designed for both small and
    high-throughput laboratories conducting molecular testing with
    multiplexed-based assays deployed on our VeraCode bead
    technology. It supports a wide range of applications, including
    DNA, RNA, and protein-based assays, and is FDA cleared for
    in vitro diagnostics with specific VeraCode FDA-cleared
    tests.





Consumables



Our InfiniumHD Whole-Genome BeadChips represent our most
    technologically advanced multi-sample DNA analysis microarrays,
    enabling the interrogation of up to 2.5 million markers per
    sample, depending on the BeadChip. The most recent additions to
    the Omni family, the HumanOmni2.5 and HumanOmni1S BeadChips,
    provide comprehensive coverage of common and rare variants
    identified by the 1000 Genomes Project for performing rich GWAS
    projects. This product line also includes agriculturally
    relevant genome panels such as the BovineHD and MaizeSNP50
    BeadChips.



For researchers who want to study focused genomic regions of
    interest, or are interested in organisms for which there are no
    standard products, we offer iSelect Custom Genotyping BeadChips.
    Easily developed to fit any experimental design, these SNP
    genotyping arrays can be used to investigate from 3,000 to
    1,000,000 markers targeting any species.



Our GoldenGate Universal-32 Sample BeadChip provides a flexible
    customized solution for mid-plex genotyping assays performed on
    the iScan System or HiScan, while the VeraCode GoldenGate
    genotyping arrays are well-suited for low-plex genotyping on the
    BeadXpress Reader.



We have developed a variety of sample preparation and sequencing
    kits to simplify workflows and accelerate analysis. Some provide
    all the necessary consumables needed for analyses, such as our
    Standard Sequencing Kit (SBS chemistry on our sequencing
    platforms) and Infinium Assay Kit (array-based genotyping on the
    iScan System). Others support more discrete analyses, such as
    our Paired-End Genomic DNA Sample Prep Kit for streamlining
    library preparation for the generation of 200 — 500 kb
    insert paired-end reads for sequencing, gene expression, and
    epigenetic analysis. Our new TruSeq SBS Sequencing Kit enhances
    sequencing studies with our HiSeq 2000, HiSeq 1000, Genome
    Analyzer IIx and MiSeq systems, by enabling researchers to
    extend the read lengths, achieve higher Gb of mappable data, and
    deliver the highest yield of perfect reads to maximize the
    ability to accurately characterize the genome. Through our
    recent acquisition of Epicentre Technologies Corporation, we
    acquired the proprietary Nextera technology for next-generation
    sequencing library preparation. This technology will enable us
    to offer sequencing library preparation kits with lower sample
    input requirements that greatly simplify genetic analysis
    workflows (from 12 hours and 9 steps, to 2 hours and 4
    steps) and significantly reduce the time from sample preparation
    to answer.



Real-time
    PCR Platforms



The Eco Real-Time PCR System provides fast, accurate qPCR
    results. Its icon-driven user interface simplifies experimental
    design and setup, while a straightforward workflow streamlines
    operation, enabling the system to perform qPCR on 48 samples in
    less than 40 minutes. As our first entry into the qPCR market,
    we believe the smaller, lower-cost, full-featured Eco System
    will enable more scientists to use real-time PCR technology in
    their research.



Our
    Services



In addition to the products we supply to customers, we also
    provide sequencing and genotyping services through our
    CLIA-certified, CAP accredited laboratory.



FastTrack
    Services



One of the ways in which we compete and extend the reach of our
    systems in the genetic analysis market is to deliver FastTrack
    Services that leverage our proprietary technologies and the
    expertise of our scientists to perform genotyping and sequencing
    services for our customers. We began offering genotyping
    services to academic institutions, biotechnology, and
    pharmaceutical customers in 2002. The in-house molecular
    geneticists that make up our FastTrack Genotyping team help
    customers perform GWAS projects, linkage analysis, and fine
    mapping studies to meet their deadlines, employing a range of
    our products, including standard and custom GoldenGate, standard
    Infinium and Infinium HD, and iSelect Infinium assays. These
    projects range in size from a few hundred to over 10,000 samples.





After five years of building an infrastructure to support
    genotyping services, we expanded to deliver sequencing services
    in 2007. We continue to combine the power of our proprietary SBS
    technology with the consultative and analytical capabilities of
    our FastTrack Sequencing team to execute high-value projects
    such as whole-genome sequencing, targeted resequencing, digital
    expression profiling, and small RNA discovery. Projects range
    from small sample sets requiring as little as one run, to
    large-scale projects such as de novo whole-genome sequencing
    that demand multiple instruments running in parallel for
    extended periods of time.



Service
    Partnership Programs



To complement our own service capabilities, we have developed
    partnered programs such as our Certified Service Providers
    (CSPro) and Illumina Genome Network (IGN) to create a world-wide
    network of Illumina technology-enabled service offerings that
    broaden our market reach. Illumina CSPro is a collaborative
    service partnership established between Illumina and leading
    genome centers and research laboratories to ensure the delivery
    of high-quality genetic analysis services. It provides a
    competitive advantage for service providers, while also ensuring
    that customers will receive Illumina data quality and service.
    To become a CSPro provider, participating laboratories must
    complete an Illumina certification process and undergo
    recertification on an annual basis. There are over 50 Illumina
    CSPro-certified organizations worldwide providing sequencing,
    genotyping, and gene expression services using our technologies
    and products.



Introduced in July 2010, the IGN links researchers interested in
    conducting large whole genome sequencing projects with leading
    institutes worldwide that possess our next-generation sequencing
    technology. IGN provides a cost-effective and dependable way to
    complete large sequencing projects. The genome sequencing
    service network comprises CSPro-certified academic and
    commercial organizations possessing 10 or more HiSeq 2000 or
    Genome Analyzer systems and committed to providing
    industry-leading turnaround times of as few as 12 weeks for
    50 samples. Current members include the National Center for
    Genome Resources (NCGR) in Santa Fe, New Mexico and the
    Macrogen Genomic Medicine Institute in Seoul, Korea.



Individual
    Genome Sequencing



Introduced in June 2009, Illumina’s Individual Genome
    Sequencing Service provides personal genome sequencing for
    consumers. It is performed in our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited
    laboratory using our next-generation sequencing technology. The
    service is built around physician-patient consultation, with a
    physician’s order required to initiate the process. The
    offering includes sequencing of an individual’s DNA to
    30-times depth, providing information on SNP variation and other
    structural characteristics of the genome such as insertions,
    deletions, and rearrangements. We are collaborating with a
    number of partners to provide secondary data analysis such as
    calculation of disease risk, ancestry, and information on traits
    of interest. The service requires individuals to follow our
    physician-mediated process, which involves pre-service
    consultation, patient consent, and aseven-day“cooling off” period during which the patient may
    withdraw consent. The final genome data is returned to the
    physician, who in turn delivers it to the consumer.



Intellectual
    Property



We have an extensive intellectual property portfolio, including,
    as of February 1, 2011, ownership of, or exclusive licenses
    to, 214 issued U.S. patents and 197 pending
    U.S. patent applications, including seven allowed
    applications that have not yet issued as patents. Our issued
    patents include those directed to various aspects of our arrays,
    assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, and
    chemical detection technologies, and have terms that expire
    between 2011 and 2029. We continue to file new patent
    applications to protect the full range of our technologies. We
    have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these
    patents and applications in foreign countries.



We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright, and
    trademark protection, as well as continuing technological
    innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain
    our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our
    ability to obtain patent protection for our products and
    processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our
    patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without
    infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and to
    acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products.





We are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license
    agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant
    us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing
    technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent
    kits, and scanning equipment. We have exclusive licenses from
    Tufts University to patents that are directed to our BeadArray
    technology. These patents were filed by Dr. David Walt, who
    is a member of our board of directors, the Chairman of our
    Scientific Advisory Board, and one of our founders. Our
    exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying
    patents, which will occur between 2011 and 2020. We have
    additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third
    parties for other components of our products. In most cases, the
    agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying
    patents, may be terminated at our request without further
    obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties while
    the agreement is in effect.



Research
    and Development



We have made substantial investments in research and development
    since our inception. We have assembled a team of skilled
    scientists and engineers who are specialists in biology,
    chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems,
    software, manufacturing, and other related areas required to
    complete the development of our products. Our research and
    development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required
    to optimize our sequencing, BeadArray, VeraCode, and oligo
    synthesis technologies and to support commercialization of the
    products and services derived from these technologies.



Our research and development expenses for 2010, 2009, and 2008
    (inclusive of charges relating to share-based compensation of
    $25.4 million, $20.0 million, and $14.1 million,
    respectively) were $177.9 million, $140.6 million, and
    $100.0 million, respectively. We expect research and
    development expense to increase during 2011 as we continue to
    expand our research and product development efforts.



Marketing
    and Distribution



Our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the
    life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving
    sequencing, SNP genotyping, and gene expression profiling. These
    experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research,
    including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug
    discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics, and
    animal and agricultural research. Our potential customers
    include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions,
    government laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as
    well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, and
    consumer genomics companies. The genetic analysis market is
    relatively new and emerging and its size and speed of
    development will ultimately be driven by, among other items:



•the ability of the research community to extract medically
    valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge
    to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment;•the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput
    research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation
    required to study genetic variation and biological
    function; and•the availability of government and private industry funding to
    perform the research required to extract medically relevant
    information from genomic analysis.



We market and distribute our products directly to customers in
    North America, Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific
    region. In each of these areas, we have dedicated sales,
    service, and application support personnel responsible for
    expanding and managing their respective customer bases. In
    addition, in certain markets within Europe, the Asia-Pacific
    region, Latin America, the Middle East, and South Africa we sell
    our products and provide services to customers through
    distributors that specialize in life science products. We expect
    to continue to increase our sales and distribution resources
    during 2011 and beyond as we launch a number of new products and
    expand the number of customers that can use our products.



Manufacturing



We manufacture sequencing and array platforms, reagent kits,
    scanning equipment, and oligos. Our manufacturing capacity for
    consumables and instruments has grown during 2010 to support our
    increased





customer demand. We are also focused on continuing to enhance
    the quality and manufacturing yield of our BeadChips and flow
    cells, in particular. To continue to increase throughput and
    improve the quality and manufacturing yield as we increase the
    complexity of our products, we are exploring ways to continue
    increasing the level of automation in the manufacturing process.
    We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal,
    state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the
    use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances.



Raw
    Materials



Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw
    materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and
    biochemical materials, and other supplies. We have multiple
    commercial sources for many of our components and supplies;
    however, there are some raw materials and components that we
    obtain from single source suppliers. To mitigate potential risks
    arising from single source suppliers, we believe that we can
    redesign our products for alternative components or use
    alternative reagents if required. In addition, while we
    generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we
    purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to
    protect our supply chain.



Competition



Although we believe that our products and services provide
    significant advantages over products and services currently
    available from other sources, we expect to continue to encounter
    intense competition from other companies that offer products and
    services for sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression, and
    molecular diagnostics markets. These include companies such as
    Affymetrix, Inc.; Agilent Technologies, Inc.; Beckman Coulter,
    Inc.; Complete Genomics, Inc.; Helicos BioSciences Corporation;
    General Electric Company; Life Technologies Corporation; Luminex
    Corporation; Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc.; QIAGEN
    N.V.; Roche Diagnostics Corp.; and Sequenom, Inc., among others.
    Some of these companies have or will have substantially greater
    financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger,
    more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service
    organizations than we do. In addition, they may have greater
    name recognition than we do in the markets we address and in
    some cases a larger installed base of systems. Each of these
    markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to
    emerge and the intensity of competition to increase. In order to
    effectively compete with these companies, we will need to
    demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost,
    and accuracy advantages over competing products.



Segment
    and Geographic Information



We are organized in two business segments, Life Sciences and
    Diagnostics. Our Life Sciences Business Unit includes all
    products and services related to the research market, namely the
    product lines based on our sequencing, BeadArray, VeraCode, and
    real-time PCR technologies. Our Diagnostics Business Unit
    focuses on the emerging opportunity in molecular diagnostics.
    During all periods presented, our Diagnostics Business Unit had
    limited activity. Accordingly, our operating results for both
    units are reported on an aggregate basis as one operating
    segment. We will begin reporting in two segments once revenues,
    operating profit or loss, or assets of the Diagnostics Business
    Unit exceed 10% of the consolidated amounts.



We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside
    the United States, including customers in other areas of North
    America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. Shipments to
    customers outside the United States totaled
    $403.8 million, or 45% of our total revenue, during 2010,
    compared to $319.1 million, or 48%, and
    $293.2 million, or 51%, in 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    Sales to customers outside of the United States were
    generally denominated in U.S. dollars. In 2008, we
    reorganized our international structure to establish more
    efficient channels among product development, product
    manufacturing, and sales. The reorganization increased our
    foreign subsidiaries’ anticipated dependence on the
    U.S. entity for management decisions, financial support,
    production assets, and inventory thereby making the foreign
    subsidiaries more of a direct and integral component of the
    U.S. entity’s operations. As a result, we reassessed
    the primary economic environment of our foreign subsidiaries and
    determined the subsidiaries are more U.S. dollar based,
    resulting in a U.S. dollar functional currency
    determination. We expect that sales to international customers
    will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue.
    See note “13. Segment Information,





Geographic Data, and Significant Customers” in
    Part II, Item 8, of thisForm 10-Kfor further information concerning our foreign and domestic
    operations.



Backlog



Our backlog was $299.0 million and $227.6 million at
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, respectively.
    Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as
    of the balance sheet date; however, we may allow customers to
    make product substitutions as we launch new products. The timing
    of shipments depends on several factors, including agreed upon
    shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and
    whether the product is catalog or custom. We expect an estimated
    90% of the backlog as of January 2, 2011 to be shipped
    within the fiscal year ending January 1, 2012. Although we
    generally recognize revenue upon the transfer of title to a
    customer, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue
    even after title transfer depending on the specific arrangement
    with a customer and the applicable accounting treatment. A
    material portion of our backlog at January 2, 2011 is
    associated with a large order we received from one customer at
    the end of 2009 for which we are using operating lease
    accounting that requires us to recognize revenue over a period
    of three years with the majority of that revenue recognized in
    2011 and 2012.



Seasonality



Historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown
    significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products
    is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and
    highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as a result,
    in part, of U.S. academic customers spending unused budget
    allocations before the end of the U.S. government’s
    fiscal year on September 30 of each year.



Environmental
    Matters



We are committed to the protection of our employees and the
    environment. Our operations require the use of hazardous
    materials that subject us to a variety of federal, state, and
    local environmental and safety laws and regulations. We believe
    we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and
    regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and
    fines should contamination of the environment or individual
    exposures to hazardous substances occur. In addition, we cannot
    predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the
    development of new laws and regulations, will affect our
    business operations or the cost of compliance.



Government
    Regulation



Our products are not currently subject to FDA clearance or
    approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis
    of disease. However, as we expand our product line to encompass
    products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of
    disease, such as molecular diagnostic products, regulation by
    governmental authorities in the United States and other
    countries will be a significant factor in the development,
    testing, production, and marketing of such products. Products
    that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending
    on their intended use, will be regulated as medical devices by
    the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries and may
    require either receiving clearance following a pre-market
    notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or
    premarket approval (PMA), from the FDA prior to marketing.
    Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive
    and may involve considerable delay.



The shorter 510(k) clearance process, which generally takes from
    three to six months after submission, but can take significantly
    longer, may be utilized if it is demonstrated that the new
    product is “substantially equivalent” to a similar
    product that has already been cleared by the FDA. The longer PMA
    process is much more costly, uncertain, and generally takes from
    nine months to two years after filing. Because we cannot ensure
    that any molecular diagnostic products that we develop will be
    subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, or will
    ultimately be approved at all, the regulatory approval process
    for such products may be significantly delayed and may be
    significantly more expensive than anticipated. If we fail to
    obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining,
    regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we





develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully
    commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all.



Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the
    imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any
    time during the development or marketing of our products, which
    may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or
    comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.



In addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process
    required to manufacture, market, and sell our existing and
    future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled
    as, “Research Use Only,” or RUO, is uncertain if such
    products are used or could be used, even without our consent,
    for the diagnosis of disease. If the FDA or other regulatory
    authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to
    regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial
    condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.



Employees



As of January 2, 2011, we had approximately
    2,100 employees. None of our employees is represented by a
    labor union. We consider our employee relations to be positive.
    Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to
    attract and retain employees. In addition, we employ a number of
    temporary and contract employees. We face competition in this
    regard from other companies, research and academic institutions,
    government entities, and other organizations.



