ITEM 1.Business

Overview

We are a leading developer, manufacturer, and marketer of life science tools and integrated systems for the analysis of genetic variation and function.  We were incorporated in California in April 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000.  Our principal executive offices are located at 5200 Illumina Way, San Diego, California 92122.  Our telephone number is (858) 202-4500.



Using our proprietary technologies, we provide a comprehensive line of genetic analysis solutions, with products and services that serve a broad range of highly interconnected markets, including sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression.  Our customers include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, and consumer genomics companies, and in vitro fertilization clinics.



Our broad portfolio of systems, consumables, and analysis tools are designed to simplify genetic analysis.  This portfolio addresses a range of genomic complexity, price points, and throughputs, enabling researchers to select the best solution for their scientific challenge.  Our leading edge sequencing instruments can be used to efficiently perform a range of nucleic acid (DNA, RNA) analyses on large numbers of samples.  For more focused studies, our array-based solutions provide ideal tools to perform genome-wide association studies (GWAS) involving single-nucleotide polymorphism genotyping and copy number variation analyses, as well as gene expression profiling, and other DNA, RNA, and protein studies.



In 2012 and early 2013, we took significant steps to support our goal of becoming the leader in genomic-based diagnostics by acquiring BlueGnome Ltd. (BlueGnome) in September 2012 and signing a definitive agreement to acquire Verinata Health, Inc. (Verinata) in January 2013.  Our acquisition of BlueGnome, a leading provider of solutions for the screening of genetic abnormalities associated with developmental delay, cancer, and infertility, enhances our ability to establish integrated solutions in reproductive health and cancer.  Upon completion of the Verinata acquisition, our focus on reproductive health will be further strengthened by having access to Verinata’s verifi® prenatal test, the broadest non-invasive prenatal test (NIPT) available today for high-risk pregnancies, and what we believe to be the most comprehensive intellectual property portfolio in the NIPT industry.  To further enhance our genetic analysis workflows, in 2011 we acquired Epicentre Technologies Corporation, a leading provider of nucleic acid sample preparation reagents and specialty enzymes for sequencing and microarray applications.  In 2010, through our acquisition of Helixis, Inc. (Helixis), we expanded our portfolio to include real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR), one of the most widely used technologies in life sciences.  Our Eco Real-Time PCR System provides researchers with an affordable, full-featured system to perform targeted validation studies.



Industry Background



Genetics Primer



The instruction set for all living cells is encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, with the complete set of DNA for any organism referred to as its genome.  DNA contains small regions called genes, which comprise a string of nucleotide bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine, respectively.  These nucleotide bases are present in a precise order known as the DNA sequence.  When a gene is “expressed,” a partial copy of its DNA sequence - called messenger RNA (mRNA) - is used as a template to direct the synthesis of a particular protein.  Proteins, in turn, direct all cellular function.  The illustration below is a simplified gene expression schematic.











Variations among organisms are due, in large part, to differences in their DNA sequences.  Changes caused by insertions, deletions, inversions, or duplications of nucleotide bases may result in certain genes becoming over-expressed (excessive protein production), under-expressed (reduced protein production), or silenced altogether, sometimes triggering changes in cellular function.  These changes can be the result of heredity, but most often they occur at random.  The most common form of variation in humans is called a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), which is a variation in a single position of a nucleotide base in a DNA sequence.  Copy number variations (CNVs) occur when there are fewer or more copies of certain genes, segments of a gene, or stretches of DNA.



In humans, genetic variation accounts for many of the physical differences we see (e.g., height, hair, eye color, etc.).  More importantly, these genetic variations can have medical consequences affecting disease susceptibility, including predisposition to complex genetic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer’s disease.  They can also impact an individual’s response to certain drug treatments, causing them to respond well, not respond at all, or experience adverse side effects - an area of study known as pharmacogenomics.



Scientists are studying these variations and their consequences in humans, as well as a broad range of animals, plants, and microorganisms.  Researchers investigating human, viral, and bacterial genetic variation are helping us to better understand the mechanisms of disease, and thereby develop more effective therapeutics and diagnostics.  Greater insight into genetic variation in plants (e.g., food and biofuel crops) and animals (e.g., livestock and domestic animals) is enabling scientists to improve crop yields and animal breeding programs.



The methods for studying genetic variation and biological function include sequencing, SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression profiling, and gene regulation and epigenetic analysis, each of which is addressed by our breadth of products and services.



Life Sciences Research Primer



Life science research encompasses the study of all living things, from humans, animals, and plants, to viruses and bacteria.  It is being performed in government, university, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and agrigenomics laboratories around the world, where scientists are seeking to expand our knowledge of the biological functions essential for life.  Beginning at the genetic level, where our tools are used to elucidate the correlation between gene sequence and biological processes, life science research expands to include the study of the cells, tissues, organs, systems, and other components that make up living organisms.  This research supports development of new, more effective clinical diagnostics and medicines to improve human health, as well as advances in agriculture and animal husbandry to meet the world’s growing needs for food and energy.



Molecular Diagnostics Primer



Molecular diagnostic assays (or tests) are designed to identify the biological indicators linked with disease and drug response, providing physicians with information to more effectively diagnose, treat, and monitor both acute and chronic disease conditions.  They are an integral part of personalized healthcare, where the unique makeup of each individual can be taken into account in diagnosing disease and managing treatment through the use of more tailored therapies.  Biological indicators that can be measured by these assays include protein or gene expression, methylation levels, copy number variations, and the presence or absence of a specific gene or group of genes.











There are molecular diagnostics assays on the market, including assays for infectious disease, cancer, and heart disease, as well as molecular-based drug metabolism and response assays to help physicians select the most effective therapy with the fewest side effects.  Our innovative technologies and products are contributing to the development of a wide range of potential genomic-based molecular diagnostics assays.



Growing news coverage about the clinical relevance of newly discovered genetic markers has prompted consumer interest in having personal genomes analyzed, sparking the development of the consumer genomics market.  We believe there are distinct medical benefits, especially for people with family histories of certain diseases, of knowing potential disease predispositions.  Several companies, including Illumina, now offer personal sequencing or genotyping services, working with physician groups and genetic counselors to interpret the results for consumers.



We believe the growth in consumer genomics and the use of genomic-based diagnostic assays will trigger a fundamental shift in the practice of medicine and the economics of the pharmaceutical industry and health care by facilitating an increased emphasis on preventative and predictive molecular medicine, ushering in the era of personalized medicine.



Our Principal Markets



From the company’s inception, we have believed that the analysis of genetic variation and function will play an increasingly important role in molecular biology, and that by empowering genetic analysis, our tools will advance disease research, drug development, and the creation of molecular diagnostic tests.  In addition to developing sequencing- and array-based solutions for life science, applied, and consumer genomics markets, we are facilitating the transition of sequencing to the clinic, by supporting and carrying out clinical trials to gather data for regulatory submissions in the US and globally, and establishing infrastructure to offer products designed and manufactured in compliance with global quality standards for medical devices.



Life Sciences Research Market



Our core business is in the life sciences research market, which consists of laboratories generally associated with universities, medical research centers, and government institutions, as well as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies.  Researchers at these institutions are using our products and services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities, such as: next-generation sequencing, mid-to-high-complexity genotyping and gene expression (for whole-genome discovery and profiling), and low complexity genotyping and gene expression (for high-throughput targeted screening).  DNA sequencing is growing the most rapidly among these three areas due to the creation of next generation sequencing technologies.  It is fueled by private and public funding, new global initiatives to broadly characterize genetic variation, and the migration of legacy genetic applications to sequencing-based technologies.



Applied Markets



We provide products and services for various other markets, which we refer to as “applied markets.”  The largest among these is the agricultural market, where government and corporate researchers use our sequencing and array-based tools to accelerate and enhance agricultural research.  For example, we currently offer microarrays that contain SNPs for custom and focused genotyping of seeds and crops (such as maize, tomatoes, apples, and potatoes), livestock (such as cattle, horses, pigs, goats, and sheep), and companion animals (such as dogs).  Customers use these tools to perform selective breeding through high-value trait screening methods, thereby accelerating and enhancing the process as compared to traditional methods such as cross-breeding. We have developed a high-growth recurring revenue business in both the livestock and agricultural segments, and emerging opportunities in the applied markets include forensics and pet genomics.



Molecular Diagnostics Market



Molecular diagnostics is the fastest growing segment of the diagnostics market.  At present, this growth is largely driven by infectious disease testing, but molecular diagnostics is rapidly expanding into new areas such as reproductive health (including non-invasive prenatal testing) and cancer management - both are areas of focus for our diagnostics business.  The increasing efficacy of molecular diagnostics is driven by the continued discovery of genetic markers with proven clinical utility, the increasing adoption of genetic-based diagnostic tests, and the expansion of reimbursement programs to include a greater number of approved molecular diagnostic tests.  We believe our sequencing and array instrument platforms are foundational to continued growth in this market.



In September 2012 we acquired BlueGnome, a leading provider of solutions for screening genetic abnormalities associated with developmental delay, cancer, and infertility.  The combination of BlueGnome’s solutions with our microarray









and sequencing platforms will enable the development of next-generation tools for these markets.  In January 2013, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire Verinata Health, Inc.  Upon completion of the Verinata acquisition, our focus on reproductive health will be further strengthened by having access to Verinata’s verifi® prenatal test, the broadest non-invasive prenatal test (NIPT) available today for high-risk pregnancies, and what we believe to be the most comprehensive intellectual property portfolio in the NIPT industry.





As the molecular diagnostics market continues to evolve and emerge, we believe the translational market will prove to be another growth opportunity for us. In September 2012, Illumina introduced TruSight content sets for use by laboratories with next-generation sequencing systems such as the MiSeq. Comprised of oligonucleotide probes targeting genes and gene regions thought to be relevant for specific genetic diseases or conditions, TruSeq content sets are designed for use by laboratories in the development of their own unique targeted sequencing tests.



Consumer Genomics Markets



New sequencing and genotyping technologies, such as those developed by Illumina, are driving down the cost of performing comprehensive sequencing and genotyping analyses, rapidly paving the way to improving diagnosing of diseases and evaluation of disease risk.  Consumer genomics is a nascent market, but one we believe has the potential for high growth as the cost per analysis continues to drop.  In 2009, we launched our Individual Genome Sequencing Service, the first physician-intermediated personal genome sequencing service for consumers.  Built around physician-patient consultation, the service requires a physician’s order to initiate the process, with genome sequencing performed using our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory.



Our Principal Technologies



Our unique technology platforms enable the scale of experimentation necessary for genome-wide discovery, target selection, and validation studies (see Figure 1 below).  More than 8,000 customer-authored scientific papers have been published to date using these technologies, representing the efforts of a large and dynamic Illumina user community.  Through rapid innovation, we are changing the economics of genetic research, enabling projects that were previously considered unapproachable.











Figure 1: Illumina Platform Overview:





Sequencing Technology



DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample.  Our HiSeq 2500/2000, HiSeq 1500/1000, Genome Analyzer IIx, MiSeq, and HiScanSQ systems represent a family of systems that we believe are setting the standard for productivity, cost-effectiveness, and accuracy among next-generation sequencing technologies.  They are used by customers to perform whole-genome, de novo, and targeted re-sequencing of genomes, and to analyze specific gene regions and genes.



Whole-genome sequencing determines an organism’s complete DNA sequence.  In de novo sequencing, the goal is to sequence a representative sample from a species never before sequenced.  In targeted re-sequencing, a sequence of nucleotide bases is compared to a standard or reference sequence from a previously sequenced species to identify changes that reflect genetic variation.  Understanding the similarities and differences in DNA sequence between and within species furthers our understanding of the function of the structures encoded in the DNA.



Our DNA sequencing technology is based on our proprietary reversible terminator-based sequencing chemistry, referred to as sequencing by synthesis (SBS) biochemistry.  Our SBS sequencing technology provides researchers with a broad range of applications and the ability to sequence even large mammalian genomes in days rather than weeks or years. Our highest throughput sequencing instrument, the HiSeq 2500, has the ability to generate up to 600 gigabases (Gb) (five human genomes) of DNA sequence in ten days, or up to 120 Gb in approximately one day in rapid run mode. Since the launch of our first sequencing system in 2007, our systems have reduced the cost of sequencing by more than a factor of 100.



BeadArray Technology



Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously, enabling large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function in a unique high-throughput, cost effective, and flexible manner.  The arrays manufactured using BeadArray technology are imaged by our iScan, HiScan, and HiScanSQ systems for a broad range of DNA and RNA analysis applications including SNP discovery, SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression analysis, and methylation analysis.



Our proprietary BeadArray technology consists of microscopic silica beads, with each bead covered with hundreds of thousands of copies of oligonucleotides, or oligos, that act as the capture sequences in one of our assays.  We deploy our BeadArray technology on BeadChips - silicon wafers the size of a microscope slide, with varying numbers of sample sites per slide.  BeadChips are chemically etched to create tens of millions of wells for each sample site.











Using our BeadArray technology, we achieve high-throughput analysis with a high density of test sites per array, and are able to format arrays in various configurations.  We seek to maximize cost effectiveness by reducing consumption of expensive consumables and valuable samples, and through the low manufacturing costs associated with our technologies.  Our ability to vary the size, shape, and format of the well patterns and to create specific bead pools for different applications provides the flexibility to address multiple markets and market segments.  These features enable our BeadArray technology to be applied to high-growth markets of SNP genotyping and CNV analysis and have allowed us to be a key player in the gene expression market.



Eco Real-Time PCR Technology



In 2010, we purchased Helixis and its novel real-time PCR technology and introduced the Eco Real-Time PCR System to the market.  Real-Time PCR (also known as quantitative PCR or qPCR) is used to amplify and simultaneously quantify a targeted DNA molecule, with applications in gene expression, viral quantification, array data validation, pathogen detection, and genotyping.  The procedure follows the same steps as PCR, whereby thermal cycling (alternately heating and cooling the DNA sample from 20 to 40 times) causes the DNA to self-replicate, resulting in the doubling of DNA product with each cycle.  Real-time PCR uses various fluorescent detection chemistries to enable the monitoring of the PCR reaction as it progresses.  Data are collected at each cycle rather than at the end of the reaction, providing higher precision, increased sensitivity, increased dynamic range, and higher resolution.



The Eco System combines a proprietary thermal system, four-color multiplex capabilities, and a fine-tuned optical system to deliver accurate qPCR results.  Its unique design provides superior thermal uniformity, supporting high-quality PCR performance for demanding applications such as high resolution melt (HRM) curve analysis used for SNP genotyping, DNA fingerprinting, species identification, HLA compatibility typing, allelic prevalence, and DNA methylation analysis.  Measuring just over one cubic foot in size, we believe the Eco System’s overall performance rivals larger, more expensive systems.



Our Products



Using our proprietary technologies, our products give our customers the ability to analyze the genome at any level of complexity, from whole-genome sequencing to low-multiplex assays, and enable us to serve a number of markets, including research, agriculture, forensics, pharmaceuticals, and genomic-based molecular diagnostics.



The majority of our product sales consist of instruments and consumables (which include reagents, flow cells, and BeadChips) based on our proprietary technologies.  For the fiscal years endedDecember 30, 2012,January 1, 2012, andJanuary 2, 2011, instrument sales comprised27%,35%, and36%, respectively, of total revenues, and consumable sales represented64%,56%, and56%, respectively, of total revenues.



Sequencing Platforms



Based on our proprietary SBS technology, our next-generation sequencing platforms are designed to meet the workflow, output, and accuracy demands of a full range of sequencing applications.  Designed for high-throughput sequencing, the HiSeq 2500 is a fast, easy-to-use instrument that can generate either up to 600 Gb of data in high-output mode or up to 120 Gb in rapid run mode.  In the high-output mode, the HiSeq 2500 processes either up to five human genomes (120 Gb per genome) in ten days or a single human genome at 30x coverage in approximately one day.  Offering the same flexibility, the HiSeq 1500 accommodates lower throughput needs, with an easy upgrade path to the HiSeq 2500.  Launched in 2011, our MiSeq Personal Sequencing System delivers the fastest time to an answer (as little as 2-3 hours) and offers a breadth of sequencing applications in a compact and economical instrument to meet the needs of individual researchers.



Sequencing/Array Combination Platforms



The HiScanSQ combines our SBS sequencing technology and HiScan microarray analysis instrumentation into one system, with a modular design that can evolve with changing research needs.  This flexible system allows researchers to use our sequencing and array technologies interactively to bring increased power to their experiments.



Array Platforms



The HiScan and iScan Systems are dedicated array scanners that support the rapid, sensitive, and accurate imaging of our array-based genetic analysis products.  They incorporate high-performance lasers, optics, and detection systems, delivering sub-micron resolution and unmatched throughput rates.  The HiScan and iScan support our Infinium, GoldenGate, DASL, gene expression, and methylation assays.











Consumables



We have developed a variety of sample preparation and sequencing kits to simplify workflows and accelerate analysis.  Some provide all the necessary consumables needed for analyses, such as our Standard Sequencing Kit (SBS chemistry on our sequencing platforms) and Infinium Assay Kit (array-based genotyping on our array platforms).  Others support more discrete analyses, such as our Paired-End Genomic DNA Sample Prep Kit for streamlining library preparation for the generation of 200-500 kb insert paired-end reads for sequencing, gene expression, and epigenetic analysis.  Our TruSeq SBS Sequencing Kit enhances sequencing studies with our HiSeq, Genome Analyzer IIx, and MiSeq systems, by enabling researchers to extend the read lengths, achieve higher Gb of mappable data, and deliver the highest yield of perfect reads to maximize the ability to accurately characterize the genome.  Through our acquisition of Epicentre Technologies Corporation in 2011, we acquired the proprietary Nextera technology for next-generation sequencing library preparation.  This technology has enabled us to offer sequencing library preparation kits with lower sample input requirements that greatly simplify genetic analysis workflows and significantly reduce the time from sample preparation to answer.



Our InfiniumHD Whole-Genome BeadChips represent our most technologically advanced multi-sample DNA analysis microarrays, enabling the interrogation of up to approximately 5 million markers per sample, depending on the BeadChip.  The most recent additions to the Omni family, the HumanOmni5-Quad, the HumanOmni2.5, and the HumanOmni1S BeadChips, provide comprehensive coverage of common and rare variants identified by the 1000 Genomes Project for performing rich GWAS projects.  This product line also includes agriculturally relevant genome panels such as the BovineHD and MaizeSNP50 BeadChips.



For researchers who want to study focused genomic regions of interest, or are interested in organisms for which there are no standard products, we offer iSelect Custom Genotyping BeadChips.  Easily developed to fit any experimental design, these SNP genotyping arrays can be used to investigate from 3,000 to 1,000,000 markers targeting any species.



Through our acquisition of BlueGnome in 2012, we are a leading provider of solutions for the screening of genetic abnormalities associated with developmental delay, cancer, and infertility.  BlueGnome supplies to some of the world’s leading in vitro fertilization (IVF) centers a preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) test for counting the chromosomes in a single human cell.  Studies have shown that PGS improves IVF success, increasing pregnancy rates for women and reducing miscarriages and multiple births.



Our reproductive health offerings also include CytoChip, a test for the investigation of genetic abnormalities mainly associated with developmental delay or with complex leukemias.  CytoChip is used by more than 200 labs across 40 countries worldwide as a first-line cytogenetic test, replacing traditional G-band karyotyping.



Real-time PCR Platforms



The Eco Real-Time PCR System provides fast, accurate qPCR results.  Its icon-driven user interface simplifies experimental design and setup, while a straightforward workflow streamlines operation, enabling the system to perform qPCR on 48 samples in less than 40 minutes.  As our first entry into the qPCR market, we believe the smaller, lower-cost, full-featured Eco System will enable more scientists to use real-time PCR technology in their research.



Our Services



In addition to the products we supply to customers, we also provide sequencing and genotyping services through our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory.



FastTrack Services



One of the ways in which we compete and extend the reach of our systems in the genetic analysis market is to deliver services that leverage our proprietary technologies and the expertise of our scientists to perform genotyping and sequencing services for our customers.  We began offering genotyping services to academic institutions, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical customers in 2002.  The in-house molecular geneticists that make up our FastTrack Genotyping team help customers perform GWAS projects, linkage analysis, and fine mapping studies to meet their deadlines, employing a range of our products, including standard and custom GoldenGate, standard Infinium and Infinium HD, and iSelect Infinium assays.  These projects range in size from a few hundred to over 10,000 samples.











After five years of building an infrastructure to support genotyping services, we expanded to deliver sequencing services in 2007.  We continue to combine the power of our proprietary SBS technology, with the consultative and analytical capabilities of our FastTrack Sequencing team to execute high-value projects such as whole-genome sequencing, targeted resequencing, digital expression profiling, and small RNA discovery.  Projects range from small sample sets requiring as little as one run, to large-scale projects such as de novo whole-genome sequencing that demand multiple instruments running in parallel for extended periods of time.



Service Partnership Programs



To complement our own service capabilities, we have developed partnered programs such as our Certified Service Providers (CSPro) and Illumina Genome Network (IGN), to create a world-wide network of Illumina technology-enabled service offerings that broaden our market reach.  Illumina CSPro is a collaborative service partnership established between Illumina and leading genome centers and research laboratories to ensure the delivery of high-quality genetic analysis services.  It provides a competitive advantage for service providers, while also ensuring that customers will receive Illumina data quality and service.  To become a CSPro provider, participating laboratories must complete a three-phased Illumina certification process.  There are over 65 Illumina CSPro-certified organizations worldwide providing sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression services using our technologies and products.



Introduced in 2010, the IGN links researchers interested in conducting large whole genome sequencing projects with leading institutes worldwide that possess our next-generation sequencing technology.  The IGN provides a cost-effective and dependable way to complete large sequencing projects.  All IGN partners are experienced and well-published using Illumina technology, and each has completed Illumina’s Certified Service Provider (CSPro) certification.  Each IGN partner possesses ten or more high-throughput Illumina sequencing systems, providing the scalability to handle even the largest sequencing projects with rapid completion times.  Current members include: the Broad Institute, British Columbia Cancer Agency’s Genome Science Centre, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, University of Washington Department of Genome Sciences, National Center for Genome Resources, Macrogen/Genomic Medicine Institute, and Illumina’s own FastTrack Services.



Individual Genome Sequencing



Since June 2009, Illumina's Clinical Services Laboratory has been offering the Individual Genome Sequencing Service providing personal genome sequencing from our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory using Illumina next-generation sequencing technology.  We offer a variety of reporting options.  The Individual Genome Sequencing Service requires individuals to follow our physician-mediated process, which involves pre-service consultation and informed consent that includes review of the information potentially to be learned in the report.  The final genome data is returned to the physician who then meets with the patient and discusses implications and possible actions based on the results.  If the physician and patient agree, the information can also be downloaded to the individual's personal iPad® for additional exploration.  We are collaborating with a number of partners to provide additional evaluations, such as ancestry, and information on traits of interest.



Intellectual Property



We have an extensive intellectual property portfolio, including, as of February 1, 2013, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to, 270 issued U.S. patents and 172 pending U.S. patent applications, including 11 allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents.  Our issued patents include those directed to various aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, and chemical detection technologies, and have terms that expire between 2013 and 2030.  We continue to file new patent applications to protect the full range of our technologies.  We have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these patents and applications in foreign countries.



We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright, and trademark protection, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position.  Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and to acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products.



We are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits, and scanning equipment.  We have exclusive licenses from Tufts University to patents that are directed to our BeadArray technology.  These patents were filed by Dr. David Walt, who is a member of our board of directors, the Chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board, and one of our founders.  Our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2013 and 2020.  We have additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third









parties for other components of our products.  In most cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties while the agreement is in effect.



Research and Development



We have made substantial investments in research and development since our inception.  We have assembled a team of skilled scientists and engineers who are specialists in biology, chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems, software, manufacturing, and other related areas required to complete the development of our products.  Our research and development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required to optimize and support commercialization of the products and services derived from our technologies.



Our research and development expenses for fiscal2012,2011, and2010were$231.0 million,$196.9 million, and$177.9 million, respectively.  We expect research and development expense to increase during2013as a result of the growth of our business and as we continue to expand our research and product development efforts.



Marketing and Distribution



Our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving sequencing, SNP genotyping, and gene expression profiling.  These experiments may be involved in many areas of biologic research, including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics, and animal and agricultural research.  Our potential customers include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agri-genomics, and consumer genomics companies.  The genetic analysis market is relatively new and emerging and its size and speed of development will ultimately be driven by, among other items:

•the ability of the research community to extract medically valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment;

•the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput research and analysis tools to enable the large amount of experimentation and analysis required to study genetic variation and biological function; and

•the availability of government and private industry funding to perform the research required to extract medically relevant information from genomic analysis.



We market and distribute our products directly to customers in North America, Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific region.  In each of these areas, we have dedicated sales, service, and application support personnel responsible for expanding and managing their respective customer bases.  In addition, in certain markets within Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America, the Middle East, and South Africa we sell our products and provide services to customers through distributors that specialize in life science products.  Likewise, in the United States we sell our qPCR portfolio (including the Eco Real-Time PCR System and associated reagents) through a distributor. We expect to continue to increase our sales and distribution resources during2013and beyond as we launch a number of new products and expand the number of customers that can use our products.



Manufacturing



We manufacture sequencing and array platforms, reagent kits, scanning equipment, and oligos.  Our manufacturing capacity for consumables and instruments has grown during 2012 to support increased customer demand.  To continue to increase throughput and improve the quality and manufacturing yield as we increase the complexity of our products, we are exploring ways to continue increasing the level of automation in the manufacturing process.  We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances.



Raw Materials



Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and biochemical materials, and other supplies.  We have multiple commercial sources for many of our components and supplies; however, there are some raw materials and components that we obtain from single source suppliers.  To mitigate potential risks arising from single source suppliers, we believe that we can redesign our products for alternative components or









use alternative reagents, if required.  In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain.



Competition



Although we believe that our products and services provide significant advantages over products and services currently available from other sources, we expect to continue to encounter intense competition from other companies that offer products and services for sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression, and molecular diagnostics markets.  These include companies such as Affymetrix, Inc.; Agilent Technologies, Inc.; Complete Genomics, Inc.; General Electric Company; Life Technologies Corporation; Luminex Corporation; Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc.; QIAGEN N.V.; and Roche Diagnostics Corp., among others.  Some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service organizations than we do.  In addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we address and in some cases a larger installed base of systems.  Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase.  In order to effectively compete with these companies, we will need to demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost, and accuracy advantages over competing products.



Segment and Geographic Information



In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for segment reporting, we have determined that we have two operating segments for purposes of recording and reporting our financial results: Life Sciences and Diagnostics.  Our Life Sciences operating segment includes all products and services related to the research market, namely the product lines based on our sequencing, array, and real-time PCR technologies.  Our Diagnostics operating segment focuses on the emerging opportunity in molecular diagnostics.  During all periods presented, our Diagnostics operating segment had limited activity.  Accordingly, our financial results for both operating segments are reported on an aggregate basis as one reportable segment.  We will begin reporting in two operating segments once revenues, operating profit or loss, or assets of the Diagnostics operating segment exceed 10% of the consolidated amounts.



We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside the United States, including customers in other areas of North America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region.  Shipments to customers outside the United States totaled$580.1 million, or51%of our total revenue, during fiscal2012, compared to$526.8 million, or50%, and$403.8 million, or45%, in fiscal2011and2010, respectively.  The U.S. dollar has been determined to be the functional currency of the Company’s international operations due to the primary economic environment of our foreign subsidiaries.  We expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue.  See note “15. Segment Information, Geographic Data, and Significant Customers” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information concerning our foreign and domestic operations.



Backlog



Our backlog was approximately$260 millionand$251 millionatDecember 30, 2012andJanuary 1, 2012, respectively.  Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance sheet date; however, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products.  The timing of shipments depends on several factors, including agreed upon shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and whether the product is catalog or custom.  We expect the majority of the backlog as ofDecember 30, 2012to be shipped within the fiscal year endingDecember 29, 2013.  Although we generally recognize revenue upon the transfer of title to a customer, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue even after title transfer depending on the specific arrangement with a customer and the applicable accounting treatment.



Seasonality



Historically, demand for our products is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as a result, in part, of U.S. academic customers spending unused budget allocations before the end of the U.S. government’s fiscal year on September 30 of each year. However, this historical pattern has decreased during the past two years as a result, in part, of uncertainty concerning government and academic research funding and reduced usage of our consumable products during the summer vacation season.











Environmental Matters



We are committed to the protection of our employees and the environment.  Our operations require the use of hazardous materials that subject us to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations.  We believe we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur.  In addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance.



Government Regulation



As we continue to expand our product lines to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, such as molecular diagnostic products, regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries will be a significant factor in the development, testing, production, and marketing of such products.  Products that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending on their intended use, will be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries and may require either receiving clearance following a pre-market notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or premarket approval (PMA), from the FDA prior to marketing.  Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay.



The shorter 510(k) clearance process, which generally takes from three to six months after submission, but can take significantly longer, may be utilized if it is demonstrated that the new product is “substantially equivalent” to a similar product that has already been cleared by the FDA.  The longer PMA process is much more costly, uncertain, and generally takes from nine months to two years after filing.  Because we cannot be certain that any molecular diagnostic products that we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, or will ultimately be approved at all, the regulatory approval process for such products may be significantly delayed and may be significantly more expensive than anticipated.  If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all.



Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.



In addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process required to design, manufacture, market, sell, and support our existing and future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled as, “Research Use Only,” or RUO, is uncertain if such products are used or could be used, even without our consent, for the diagnosis of disease.  If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.



Employees



As ofDecember 30, 2012, we had a total of approximately2,400employees.  We consider our employee relations to be positive.  Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees.  In addition, we employ a number of temporary and contract employees.  We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations.





