ITEM 1.Business



Overview



We are a leading developer, manufacturer, and marketer of
    integrated systems for the analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function. We were incorporated in California in April
    1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000. Our principal
    executive offices are located at 9885 Towne Centre Drive,
    San Diego, California 92121. Our telephone number is(858) 202-4500.



Using our proprietary technologies, we provide a comprehensive
    line of products and services that currently serve the
    sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression markets, and we
    expect to enter the market for molecular diagnostics. Our
    customers include leading genomic research centers,
    pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, clinical
    research organizations, and biotechnology companies.



We develop and commercialize sequencing technologies used to
    perform a range of analyses, including de novo sequencing, whole
    genome re-sequencing, gene expression analysis, and small RNA
    analysis. Our product and service offerings also include
    leading-edge solutions for single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)
    genotyping, copy number variation (CNV), DNA methylation
    studies, gene expression profiling, and low-multiplex analysis
    of DNA, RNA, and protein. We believe we are the only company
    with genome-scale technology for sequencing, genotyping, and
    gene expression — the three cornerstones of modern
    genetic analysis.



Our tools provide researchers around the world with the
    performance, throughput, cost effectiveness, and flexibility
    necessary to determine and analyze the billions of bits of
    genetic information needed to extract valuable medical
    information from advances in genomics and proteomics. We believe
    this information will enable researchers to correlate genetic
    variation and biological function, which will enhance drug
    discovery and clinical research, allow diseases to be detected
    earlier, and permit better choices of drugs for individual
    patients.



In 2007 we acquired Solexa, Inc. As a result of that
    transaction, we acquired the sequencing technology utilized in
    our HiSeq 2000 and Genome Analyzer instrument platforms. These
    products perform DNA sequencing based on a proprietary
    reversible terminatorsequencing-by-synthesis(SBS) chemistry.



During the first quarter of 2008, we reorganized our operating
    structure into two newly-created business segments, the Life
    Sciences Business Unit and the Diagnostics Business Unit. During
    2009, the Diagnostics Business Unit had limited business
    activity and, accordingly, operating results are reported on an
    aggregate basis as one operating segment. In the future, at each
    reporting period end, we will reassess our reportable operating
    segments, particularly as we enter the market for molecular
    diagnostics.



Industry
    Background



DNA,
    RNA, and Protein



The genetic content that controls an organism’s living
    cells is encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA. The human
    body, for instance, is composed of billions of cells, each
    containing DNA, which encodes the basic instructions for
    cellular function. The complete set of an organism’s DNA is
    called its genome. The human genome is organized into 23 pairs
    of chromosomes that are further divided into over 30,000 smaller
    regions called genes. Each gene is comprised of a string of
    nucleotide bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine,
    cytosine, guanine, and thymine, respectively. Human DNA has
    approximately 3 billion nucleotide bases and their precise
    order is known as the DNA sequence. When a gene is
    “expressed,” a partial copy of its DNA
    sequence — called messenger RNA or mRNA — is
    used as a template to direct the synthesis of a protein.
    Proteins, in turn, direct all cellular function.





Genetic
    Variation and Biological Function



Every person inherits two copies of each gene — one
    from each parent. The two copies of each gene may be identical,
    or they may be different. These differences are referred to as
    genetic variation. Examples of the physical consequences of
    genetic variation include differences in eye and hair color.
    Genetic variation can also have important medical consequences.
    Genetic variation affects disease susceptibility, including
    predisposition to cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and
    Alzheimer’s disease. In addition, genetic variation may
    cause people to respond differently to the same drug treatment.
    Some people may respond well, others may not respond at all, and
    still others may experience adverse side effects. A common form
    of genetic variation is a SNP. A SNP is a variation in a single
    position of a nucleotide base in a DNA sequence. It is estimated
    that the human genome contains over 30 million SNPs.



While in some cases a single SNP will be responsible for
    medically important effects, it is now believed that
    combinations of SNPs may contribute to the development of most
    common diseases. Since there are millions of SNPs, it is
    important to investigate many representative, well-chosen SNPs
    simultaneously in order to discover medically valuable
    information.



Another contributor to disease is the over- or under-expression
    of genes within an organism’s cells. A very complex network
    of genes interacts to maintain health in complex organisms. The
    challenge for scientists is to delineate the associated
    genes’ expression patterns and their relationship to
    disease. Historically, this problem was addressed by
    investigating effects on agene-by-genebasis. This is time consuming, and difficulties exist when
    several pathways cannot be observed or “controlled” at
    the same time. With the advent of microarray technology,
    thousands of genes can now be tested at the same time.



There are multiple methods of studying genetic variation and
    biological function, including sequencing, SNP genotyping, and
    gene expression profiling, each of which is uniquely addressed
    in our breadth of products and services. Our broad portfolio of
    current products and services supports a range of applications,
    from highest multiplexing (for whole-genome discovery and
    profiling) to mid-and low-multiplexing options (for
    high-throughput targeted screening). Furthermore, our products
    and services support both the upstream discovery process and the
    downstream test development process in order to understand
    genetic variation at the DNA, RNA, and protein levels.



Sequencing



DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of
    nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample, which can
    be further divided into de novo sequencing, re-sequencing, and
    tag sequencing. In de novo sequencing, the goal is to determine
    the sequence of a representative sample from a species never
    before sequenced. Understanding the similarities and differences
    in DNA sequence between many species can help our understanding
    of the function of the protein structures encoded in the DNA.



In re-sequencing, the sequence of nucleotide bases is compared
    to a standard or reference sequence from a given species to
    identify changes that reflect genetic variation. Re-sequencing
    studies can be performed on a genome-wide basis, which is
    referred to as whole-genome re-sequencing, or on targeted areas
    of the genome (for example, regions identified by genome-wide
    association studies), which is known as targeted re-sequencing.
    This is an extremely comprehensive form of genetic analysis, in
    which every base is characterized for possible mutations. We
    believe that these underlying discoveries will likely feed the
    development of new array products for broader testing and
    biomarker validation.



In tag sequencing, short sequences, often representative of a
    larger molecule or genomic location, are detected and counted.
    In these applications, the number of times that each tag is seen
    provides quantification of an underlying biological process. As
    an example, in digital gene expression, one or more tag
    sequences may be analyzed for each expressed gene, and the
    number of copies of these tags that are detected in an
    experiment is a measure of how actively that gene is being
    expressed in the tissue sample being analyzed. Similarly, a tag
    sequencing approach known as ChIP sequencing is used to
    determine the locations and extent of protein and DNA
    interactions throughout the genome.





SNP
    Genotyping



SNP genotyping is the process of determining which nucleotide
    base (A, C, G, or T) is present at a particular site in the
    genome within any organism. The most common use of SNP
    genotyping is for genome-wide association studies (GWAS) to look
    for an association between DNA sequence variants and a specific
    phenotype of interest. This is commonly done by studying the DNA
    of individuals that are affected by a common disease or that
    exhibit a specific trait against the DNA of control individuals
    who do not have this disease or trait. The use of SNP genotyping
    to obtain meaningful statistics on the effect of an individual
    SNP or a collection of SNPs requires the analysis of millions of
    SNP genotypes and the testing of large populations for each
    disease. For example, a single large study could involve
    genotyping more than 1,000,000 SNPs per sample in more than
    1,000 samples, thus requiring one billion assays. Using
    previously available technologies, this scale of SNP genotyping
    was both impractical and prohibitively expensive.



Large-scale SNP genotyping can be used in a variety of ways,
    including studies designed to understand the genetic
    contributions to disease (disease association studies), genomics
    based drug development, clinical trial analysis (responders and
    non-responders, and adverse event profiles), disease
    predisposition testing, and disease diagnosis. SNP genotyping
    can also be used outside of healthcare, for example in the
    development of plants and animals with commercially desirable
    characteristics. These markets will require billions of SNP
    genotyping assays annually.



Gene
    Expression Profiling



Gene expression profiling is the process of determining which
    genes are active in a specific cell or group of cells and is
    accomplished by measuring mRNA, the intermediary messenger
    between genes and proteins. Variation in gene expression can
    cause disease, or act as an important indicator of disease or
    predisposition to disease. By comparing gene expression patterns
    between cells from different environments, such as normal tissue
    compared to diseased tissue or in the presence or absence of a
    drug, specific genes or groups of genes that play a role in
    these processes can be identified. Studies of this type, often
    used in drug discovery, require monitoring thousands, and
    preferably tens of thousands, of mRNAs in large numbers of
    samples. Once a smaller set of genes of interest has been
    identified, researchers can then examine how these genes are
    expressed or suppressed across numerous samples, for example,
    within a clinical trial.



As gene expression patterns are correlated to specific diseases,
    gene expression profiling is becoming an increasingly important
    diagnostic tool. Diagnostic use of expression profiling tools is
    anticipated to grow rapidly with the combination of the
    sequencing of various genomes and the availability of more
    cost-effective technologies.



Molecular
    Diagnostics



Molecular diagnostics is the process of examining nucleic acids,
    including DNA and RNA, and protein biomarkers to detect or
    identify infectious diseases, genetic diseases and disorders,
    human cancers, and to help understandsubject-to-subject,gene-based variation in the efficacy or safety of drug
    substances (pharmacogenics). As knowledge of the genome and its
    function continues to expand, new medical and diagnostic
    applications are being developed. Molecular diagnostic tests can
    be used as diagnostic tools as well as in genetic disease
    susceptibility testing. Molecular diagnostic tests can also be
    used to identify a disease, monitor its progression and response
    to treatment, or predict individual predisposition to a disease
    and individual response to treatment. By identifying small,
    individual genetic differences — or
    variants — that lie at the root of differing drug
    responses, molecular diagnostic tests can be used to select
    appropriate medication and dosage.



Our
    Principal Markets



From our inception, we have believed that the analysis of
    genetic variation and function will play an increasingly
    important role in molecular biology and that by empowering
    genetic analysis, our tools will further disease research, drug
    development, and the development of molecular tests. Our
    customers include leading genomic research centers, academic
    institutions, clinical research organizations, and
    pharmaceutical





and biotechnology companies. In addition, fundamental
    developments in recent years have created significant new
    opportunities for us in the emerging market of molecular
    diagnostics.



Life
    Sciences Research Market



The life sciences research market consists of laboratories
    generally associated with universities, medical research
    centers, government institutions such as the United States
    National Institutes of Health, and other research institutions
    as well as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies.
    Researchers at these institutions are using our products and
    services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities, such as:
    next-generation sequencing,mid-to-high-complexitygenotyping and gene expression (for whole-genome discovery and
    profiling), and low complexity genotyping and gene expression
    (for high-throughput targeted screening). Next-generation
    sequencing is the most rapidly growing of these three areas. It
    is fueled by private and public funding, new global initiatives
    to broadly characterize genetic variation, and the migration of
    legacy genetic applications to sequencing based technologies.



Applied
    Markets



We provide products and services to enable or improve activities
    in particular markets, which we refer to as applied markets. A
    current focus of our products for these markets is in the area
    of agricultural research, including microarrays that contain
    SNPs for custom and focused genotyping of seeds and crops (such
    as maize) and livestock (such as cattle, horses, pigs, and
    sheep). The applied markets may also include opportunities for
    our products and services in the fields of forensic analysis,
    veterinary diagnostics, cytogenics, retail pet genomics, and
    consumer genotyping and sequencing. In July 2009, we launched a
    service program to provide high-quality personal genome
    sequencing for consumers. In connection with our personal
    sequencing service, we collaborate with a number of partners,
    including 23andMe, Inc.; deCODE genetics ehf; Knome, Inc.;
    National Center for Genome Resources; Navigenics, Inc.; and
    Pathway Genomics, to encourage secondary data analysis of a
    personal genome, such as calculation of disease risk, ancestry,
    and information on traits of interest. Although we do not
    perform personal genotyping directly as a service, several
    companies use our technology and products to provide personal
    genotyping services.



Molecular
    Diagnostics Market







Our
    Principal Technologies



Sequencing
    Technology



Our DNA sequencing technology is based on the use of our
    proprietary SBS biochemistry. In SBS, single stranded DNA is
    extended from a priming site, one base at a time, using
    reversible terminator nucleotides. These are DNA bases that can
    be added to a growing second strand, but which initially cannot
    be further extended. This means that at each cycle of the
    chemistry, only one base can be added. Each base that is added
    includes a fluorescent label that is specific to the particular
    base (A, C, G, or T). Thus, following incorporation, the
    fluorescence can be imaged, its color determined, and the base
    itself can be inferred. Once this is done, an additional step
    removes both the fluorescence and the blocking group that had
    prevented further extension of the second strand. This allows
    another base to be added, and the cycle can then be repeated.
    Our technology is capable of generating over 100 billion
    bases of DNA sequence from a single experiment with a single
    sample preparation. The reversible terminator bases that we use
    are novel synthetic molecules that we manufacture. They are not
    well incorporated by naturally occurring polymerases, so we have
    also developed proprietary polymerase enzymes for this purpose.
    Both the nucleotides and enzymes are the subject of significant
    intellectual property owned by us.



In our DNA sequencing systems, we apply the SBS biochemistry on
    microscopic islands of DNA, referred to as DNA clusters. Each
    cluster starts as a single DNA molecule fragment, typically a
    few hundred bases long, attached to the inside surface of a flow
    cell. We then use a proprietary amplification biochemistry to
    create copies of each starting molecule. As the copies are made,
    they are covalently linked to the surface, so they cannot
    diffuse away. After a number of cycles of amplification, each
    cluster might have approximately 1,000 copies of the original
    starting molecule, but still be only about a micron
    (one-millionth of a meter) in diameter. By making so many
    copies, the fluorescent signal from each cluster is
    significantly increased. Because the clusters are so small,
    hundreds of millions of clusters can be independently formed
    inside a single flow cell. This large number of clusters can
    then be sequenced simultaneously by alternate cycles of SBS
    biochemistry and fluorescent imaging. Sequence reads are aligned
    against a reference genome and genetic differences are called
    using specially developed data analysis software.



BeadArray
    Technology



Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a
    substrate in a simple, proprietary manufacturing process to
    produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously,
    enabling large-scale analysis of genetic variation and
    biological function in a unique high-throughput, cost effective,
    and flexible manner. We achieve high-throughput with a high
    density of test sites per array, and we are able to format
    arrays in various configurations in the format of standard
    microscope slides. We seek to maximize cost effectiveness by
    reducing consumption of expensive reagents and valuable samples
    and through the low manufacturing costs associated with our
    technologies. Our ability to vary the size, shape, and format of
    the well patterns and to create specific bead pools, or sensors,
    for different applications provides the flexibility to address
    multiple markets and market segments. We believe that these
    features have enabled our BeadArray technology to become a
    leading platform for the high-growth market of SNP genotyping
    and have allowed us to be a key player in the gene expression
    market.



Our proprietary BeadArray technology consists of 2-micron silica
    beads that self-assemble into microwells etched into an array
    substrate. We have deployed our BeadArray technology in two
    different array formats, the Array Matrix and the BeadChip. Our
    first bead based product was the Array Matrix, which
    incorporates fiber optic bundles comprised of approximately
    50,000 individual fibers, with 96 of these bundles placed into
    an aluminum plate to form an Array Matrix. In late 2009, we
    announced that during 2010 we would no longer sell Array Matrix
    products and would instead deploy our BeadArray technology only
    on BeadChips. BeadChips are microscope slide-size silicon wafers
    with varying numbers of sample sites per slide. BeadChips are
    chemically etched to create tens of millions of wells for each
    sample site.



In a separate process, we create sensors by affixing hundreds of
    thousands of copies of a specific type of oligonucleotide
    molecule to each of the billions of microscopic beads in a
    batch. We make different batches of





beads, with the beads in a given batch coated with one
    particular type of molecule. The particular molecules on a bead
    define that bead’s function as a sensor.



To form an array, a pool of coated beads is brought into contact
    with the array surface where they are randomly drawn into the
    wells, one bead per well. The beads in the wells comprise our
    individual arrays. Because the beads assemble randomly into the
    wells, we perform a final procedure called “decoding”
    in order to determine which bead type occupies which well in the
    array. We employ several proprietary methods for decoding, which
    is a process that requires only a few steps to identify all the
    beads in the array. One beneficial by-product of the decoding
    process is a functional validation of each bead in the array.
    This quality control test characterizes the performance of each
    bead and can identify and eliminate use of any empty wells. We
    ensure that each bead type on the array is sufficiently
    represented by including multiple copies of each bead type.
    Multiple bead type copies improve the reliability and accuracy
    of the resulting data by allowing statistical processing of the
    results of identical beads.



An experiment is performed by preparing a sample, such as DNA,
    and introducing it to the array. The molecules in the sample
    bind to their matching molecules on the coated beads. The
    molecules in either the sample or on the bead are labeled with
    fluorescent dye either before or after the binding, which can be
    detected by shining a laser on the BeadChip. This allows the
    detection of the molecules resulting in a quantitative analysis
    of the sample.



VeraCode
    Technology



Our proprietary VeraCode technology platform leverages the power
    of digital holographic codes to provide a robust detection
    method for multiplex assays requiring high precision, accuracy,
    and speed. VeraCode enables low-cost multiplexing from 1 to
    384-plex in a single well. At the heart of the VeraCode
    technology are cylindrical glass beads measuring 240 microns in
    length by 28 microns in diameter. Each VeraCode bead type is
    inscribed with a unique digital holographic code to designate
    and track the specific analyte or genotype of interest
    throughout the multiplex reaction. When excited by a laser, each
    VeraCode bead emits a unique code image, allowing for quick and
    specific detection by Illumina’s BeadXpress Reader System.
    Depending on desired multiplex levels, assays are created by
    pooling microbeads with code diversities from one to several
    hundred. Unlike traditional microarrays, the VeraCode microbeads
    are used in solution, which takes advantage of solution-phase
    kinetics for more rapid hybridization times, dramatically
    reducing the time to achieve results. This technology enables us
    to serve a number of markets including research, agriculture,
    forensics, pharmaceuticals, and molecular diagnostics.



Our
    Products



Using our proprietary technologies, our products give our
    customers the ability to analyze the genome at any level of
    complexity from whole genome sequencing to low multiplex assays.
    This enables us to serve a number of markets, including
    research, agriculture, forensics, pharmaceuticals, and molecular
    diagnostics. The majority of our product sales consist of
    instruments and consumables based on these various technologies.
    For the fiscal years ended January 3, 2010,
    December 28, 2008, and December 30, 2007, instrument
    sales comprised 34%, 32%, and 33%, respectively, of total
    revenues, and consumable sales represented 59%, 58%, and 53%,
    respectively, of total revenues.





Our major products, which we expect to be available for shipment
    during the first quarter of 2010, include the following:



Instrumentation
    Platforms





ProductProduct DescriptionApplicationsLaunch Date

HiSeq 2000Instrument for high-throughput (up to 200 Gb per run and up to
    25 GB per day) sequencing using our SBS sequencing technologyDNA sequencing, gene regulation analysis, sequencing-based
    transcriptome analysis, SNP discovery and structural variation
    analysis, cytogenetic analysis, DNA-protein interaction analysis
    (ChIP-seq), sequencing-based methylation analysis, and small RNA
    discovery and analysisQ1 2010

Genome Analyzer IIxInstrument for medium to high-throughput (up to 95 Gb per run)
    sequencing using our SBS sequencing technologyDNA sequencing, gene regulation analysis, sequencing-based
    transcriptome analysis, SNP discovery and structural variation
    analysis, cytogenetic analysis, DNA-protein interaction analysis
    (ChIP-seq), sequencing-based methylation analysis, and small RNA
    discovery and analysisQ2 2009

Genome Analyzer IIeInstrument for low to medium throughput (up to 40 Gb per run)
    sequencing using our SBS sequencing technologyDNA sequencing, gene regulation analysis, sequencing-based
    transcriptome analysis, SNP discovery and structural variation
    analysis, cytogenetic analysis, DNA-protein interaction analysis
    (ChIP-seq), sequencing-based methylation analysis, and small RNA
    discovery and analysisQ1 2010

iScan SystemHigh-resolution imaging instrument to rapidly scan our BeadArray
    based assaysSNP genotyping and CNV analysis, custom genotyping, cytogenetic
    analysis, focused genotyping, linkage analysis, whole-genome
    genotyping and copy number analysis, gene regulation and
    epigenetic analysis, array-based methylation analysis, gene
    expression analysis, array-based transcriptome analysis, FFPE
    sample analysis, and whole-genome gene expression analysisQ1 2008

BeadXpress ReaderLow- to mid-multiplex, high-throughput instrument for readout of
    assays (e.g., biomarker validation and development of molecular
    diagnostics) deployed on VeraCode bead technologyCustom low- to mid-plex genotyping, custom low- to mid-plex
    methylation analysis, SNP screening, and protein screeningQ1 2007









Consumables





ProductProduct DescriptionApplicationsLaunch Date

InfiniumHD Whole-Genome BeadChipsMulti-sample DNA Analysis microarrays that interrogate up to 1.2
    million markers per sample, depending on the BeadChip. Product
    line includes the following BeadChips with human and
    agriculturally relevant genome panels: HumanOmniExpress,
    HumanOmni1-Quad, Human1M-Duo, and BovineHDArray based whole-genome genotypingQ1 2008 through Q1 2010

iSelect Custom Genotyping BeadChipsCustomer designable SNP genotyping arrays for 3,000 to 200,000
    markers for use with any speciesArray based custom genotypingQ2 2006 through Q1 2010

GoldenGate Assay MethodHigh throughput assay and genotyping systemHigh throughput, array based genotypingQ3 2009

GoldenGate Universal-32 Sample BeadChip32 sample GoldenGate genotyping arraysArray based genotypingQ4 2008

Paired-End Genomic DNA Sample Prep KitStreamlined library preparation kit to generate 200 —
    500 kb insert paired-end readsWhole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression
    discovery and profiling, and epigenomics analysisQ2 2008

VeraCode GoldenGateFlexible low plex GoldenGate genotyping arrays compatible with
    the BeadXpress SystemHigh throughput, array based genotypingFY 2007

Standard Sequencing KitReagents used for SBS chemistry on our sequencing platformsWhole-genome sequencing, targeted sequencing, gene expression
    discovery and profiling, and epigenomics analysisQ1 2007

Infinium Assay KitReagents used to perform Infinium assays on the iScan platformArray-based genotypingQ1 2008 through Q1 2010







Our
    Services



Sequencing



We have been offering sequencing services since 2007. Our
    services range from small sets of samples requiring as little as
    one run to finish, to large-scale projects, like whole-genome
    sequencing, necessitating multiple instruments running in
    parallel for extended periods of time. The breadth of
    applications offered





includes novel custom products as well as all released products.
    These applications include but are not limited to human whole
    exome and custom targeted re-sequencing, de novo sequencing,
    small RNA discovery and profiling, gene expression using random
    primed RNA sampling technology, ChIP SEQ, and methylome
    interrogation.



Genotyping



We have been offering genotyping services since 2002. Our
    genotyping services offer all of our genotyping products,
    including standard and custom GoldenGate, standard Infinium and
    Infinium HD, as well as iSelect Infinium. Our projects range in
    size from a few hundred samples to over 10,000 samples. Our
    customer base includes academic institutions, and biotech and
    pharmaceutical companies.



Intellectual
    Property



We have an extensive intellectual property portfolio, including,
    as of February 1, 2010, ownership of, or exclusive licenses
    to, 159 issued U.S. patents and 171 pending
    U.S. patent applications, including eight allowed
    applications that have not yet issued as patents. Our issued
    patents include those directed to various aspects of our arrays,
    assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, and
    chemical detection technologies, and have terms that expire
    between 2010 and 2027. We continue to file new patent
    applications to protect the full range of our technologies. We
    have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these
    patents and applications in foreign countries.



We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright, and
    trademark protection, as well as continuing technological
    innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain
    our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our
    ability to obtain patent protection for our products and
    processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our
    patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without
    infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and to
    acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products.



We are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license
    agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant
    us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing
    technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent
    kits, and scanning equipment. We have exclusive licenses from
    Tufts University to patents that are directed to our BeadArray
    technology. These patents were filed by Dr. David Walt, who
    is a member of our board of directors, the Chairman of our
    Scientific Advisory Board, and one of our founders. Our
    exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying
    patents, which will occur between 2010 and 2020. We have
    additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third
    parties for other components of our products. In most cases, the
    agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying
    patents, may be terminated at our request without further
    obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties while
    the agreement is in effect.



Research
    and Development



We have made substantial investments in research and development
    since our inception. We have assembled a team of skilled
    engineers and scientists who are specialists in biology,
    chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems,
    software, manufacturing, and other related areas required to
    complete the development of our products. Our research and
    development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required
    to optimize our sequencing, BeadArray, VeraCode, and oligo
    synthesis technologies and to support commercialization of the
    products and services derived from these technologies.



Our research and development expenses for 2009, 2008, and 2007
    were $140.6 million, $100.0 million, and
    $73.9 million, respectively. We expect research and
    development expense to increase during 2010 as we continue to
    expand our research and product development efforts.



Marketing
    and Distribution



Our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the
    life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving
    sequencing, SNP genotyping, and gene expression profiling. These
    experiments may be





involved in many areas of biologic research, including basic
    human disease research, pharmaceutical drug discovery and
    development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics, and agricultural
    research. Our potential customers include pharmaceutical,
    biotechnology, agrichemical, diagnostics, and consumer products
    companies, as well as academic or private research centers. The
    genetic analysis market is relatively new and emerging and its
    size and speed of development will ultimately be driven by,
    among other items:



•the ability of the research community to extract medically
    valuable information from genomics and to apply that knowledge
    to multiple areas of disease-related research and treatment;•the availability of sufficiently low cost, high-throughput
    research tools to enable the large amount of experimentation
    required to study genetic variation and biological
    function; and•the availability of government and private industry funding to
    perform the research required to extract medically relevant
    information from genomic analysis.



We market and distribute our products directly to customers in
    North America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. In each of
    these areas, we have dedicated sales, service, and application
    support personnel responsible for expanding and managing their
    respective customer bases. In addition, in certain markets
    within Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, the Middle East, and
    South Africa we sell our products and provide services to
    customers through distributors that specialize in life science
    products. We expect to continue to increase our sales and
    distribution resources during 2010 and beyond as we launch a
    number of new products and expand the number of customers that
    can use our products.



Manufacturing



We manufacture sequencing and array instrument platforms,
    reagent kits, scanning equipment, and oligos. Our manufacturing
    capacity for consumables and instruments has grown during 2009
    to support our increased customer demand. We are also focused on
    continuing to enhance the quality and manufacturing yield of our
    BeadChips and flow cells. To continue to increase throughput and
    improve the quality and manufacturing yield as we increase the
    complexity of our products, we are exploring ways to continue
    increasing the level of automation in the manufacturing process.
    We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal,
    state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the
    use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances.



Raw
    Materials



Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw
    materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and
    biochemical materials, and other supplies. We have multiple
    commercial sources for many of our components and supplies;
    however, there are some raw materials we obtain from single
    source suppliers. To mitigate potential risks arising from
    single source suppliers, we believe that we can redesign our
    products for alternative components or use alternative reagents.
    In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at
    minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as
    circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain.



Competition



Although we expect that our products and services will provide
    significant advantages over products and services currently
    available from other sources, we expect to encounter intense
    competition from other companies that offer products and
    services for the sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression,
    and molecular diagnostics markets. These include companies such
    as Affymetrix, Inc.; Agilent Technologies, Inc.; Beckman
    Coulter, Inc.; Complete Genomics, Inc.; General Electric
    Company; Helicos BioSciences Corporation; Life Technologies
    Corporation; Luminex Corporation; Pacific Biosciences, Inc.;
    Roche Diagnostics Corp.; Sequenom, Inc.; and Qiagen N.V. Some of
    these companies have or will have substantially greater
    financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger,
    more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service
    organizations than we do. In addition, they may have greater
    name recognition than we do in the markets we address and in
    some cases a larger installed base of systems. Each of these
    markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to
    emerge and the intensity of competition to increase. In





order to effectively compete with these companies, we will need
    to demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost,
    and accuracy advantages over competing products.



Segment
    and Geographic Information



During the first quarter of 2008, we reorganized our operating
    structure into two newly created business segments, Life
    Sciences and Diagnostics. Our Life Sciences Business Unit
    includes all products and services that are primarily related to
    the research market, namely the product lines based on our
    sequencing, BeadArray, and VeraCode technologies, and our
    Diagnostics Business Unit focuses on the emerging opportunity in
    molecular diagnostics. During 2009, we had limited activity
    related to the Diagnostics Business Unit and operating results
    were reported on an aggregate basis to our chief operating
    decision maker, the chief executive officer. Accordingly, we
    operated in one reportable segment during 2009.



We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside
    the United States, including customers in other areas of North
    America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. Shipments to
    customers outside the United States totaled $319.1 million,
    or 48% of our total revenue, during 2009, compared to
    $293.2 million, or 51%, and $159.1 million, or 43%, in
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Sales to customers outside of the
    United States were generally denominated in U.S. dollars.
    In 2008, we reorganized our international structure to establish
    more efficient channels among product development, product
    manufacturing, and sales. The reorganization increased our
    foreign subsidiaries’ anticipated dependence on the
    U.S. entity for management decisions, financial support,
    production assets, and inventory thereby making the foreign
    subsidiaries more of a direct and integral component of the
    U.S. entity’s operations. As a result, we reassessed
    the primary economic environment of our foreign subsidiaries and
    determined the subsidiaries are more U.S. dollar based,
    resulting in a U.S. dollar functional currency
    determination. We expect that sales to international customers
    will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue.
    See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further information concerning our foreign and
    domestic operations.



Backlog



Our backlog was $227.6 million and $113.0 million at
    January 3, 2010 and December 28, 2008, respectively.
    Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as
    of the balance sheet date; however, we may allow customers to
    make product substitutions as we launch new products. The timing
    of shipments depends on several factors including, agreed upon
    shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and
    whether the product is catalog or custom. We reasonably expect
    an estimated 90% of the backlog as of January 3, 2010 to be
    shipped within the fiscal year ending January 2, 2011.
    Although we generally recognize revenue at the time of shipment
    and transfer of title to a customer, we may be required to defer
    the recognition of revenue even after shipment depending on the
    specific arrangement with a customer and the applicable
    accounting treatment. A material portion of our backlog at
    January 3, 2010 is associated with a large order we
    received from one customer for which we anticipate using
    operating lease accounting that will require us to recognize
    revenue over a period of three years with the majority of that
    revenue recognized in 2011 and 2012.



Seasonality



Historically, customer purchasing patterns have not shown
    significant seasonal variation, although demand for our products
    is usually lowest in the first quarter of the calendar year and
    highest in the third quarter of the calendar year as a result,
    in part, of U.S. academic customers spending unused budget
    allocations before the end of the U.S. government’s
    fiscal year.



Environmental
    Matters



We are committed to the protection of our employees and the
    environment. Our operations require the use of hazardous
    materials that subject us to a variety of federal, state, and
    local environmental and safety laws and regulations. We believe
    we are in material compliance, in all material respects, with
    current applicable laws and regulations; however, we could be
    held liable for damages and fines should contamination





of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous
    substances occur. In addition, we cannot predict how changes in
    these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and
    regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of
    compliance.



Government
    Regulation



Our products are not currently subject to FDA clearance or
    approval if they are not intended to be used for the diagnosis
    of disease. However, as we expand our product line to encompass
    products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of
    disease, such as molecular diagnostic products, regulation by
    governmental authorities in the United States and other
    countries will be a significant factor in the development,
    testing, production, and marketing of such products. Products
    that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending
    on their intended use, will be regulated as medical devices by
    the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries and may
    require either receiving clearance following a pre-market
    notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or
    premarket approval (PMA), from the FDA prior to marketing.
    Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive
    and may involve considerable delay.



The shorter 510(k) clearance process, which generally takes from
    three to six months after submission, but can take significantly
    longer, may be utilized if it is demonstrated that the new
    product is “substantially equivalent” to a similar
    product that has already been cleared by the FDA. The longer PMA
    process is much more costly, uncertain, and generally takes from
    nine months to two years after filing. Because we cannot assure
    you that any molecular diagnostic products that we develop will
    be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, or will
    ultimately be approved at all, the regulatory approval process
    for such products may be significantly delayed and may be
    significantly more expensive than anticipated. If we fail to
    obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining,
    regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we
    develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully
    commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all.



Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the
    imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any
    time during the development or marketing of our products, which
    may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or
    comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.



In addition, the regulatory approval or clearance process
    required to manufacture, market, and sell our existing and
    future products that are intended for, and marketed and labeled
    as, “Research Use Only,” or RUO, is uncertain if such
    products are used or could be used, even without our consent,
    for the diagnosis of disease. If the FDA or other regulatory
    authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to
    regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial
    condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.



Employees



As of January 3, 2010, we had a total of
    1,781 employees. None of our employees are represented by a
    labor union. We consider our employee relations to be positive.
    Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to
    attract and retain employees. In addition, we employ a number of
    temporary and contract employees. We face competition in this
    regard from other companies, research and academic institutions,
    government entities, and other organizations.



