ITEM 1.Business.



Overview



We are the global leader in sequencing-and array-based solutions for genetic analysis.  Our solutions serve customers in a wide range of markets, enabling the broad adoption of genomics solutions in research and clinical settings.  We were incorporated in California in April 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000.  Our principal executive offices are located at 5200 Illumina Way, San Diego, California 92122.  Our telephone number is (858) 202-4500.



Our customers include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, hospitals, and reference laboratories as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, commercial molecular diagnostic, and consumer genomics companies.



Our portfolio of integrated systems, consumables, and analysis tools is designed to accelerate and simplify genetic analysis.  This portfolio addresses a range of genomic complexity, price points, and throughput, enabling customers to select the best solution for their research or clinical challenge.  Our leading-edge sequencing instruments can efficiently perform a broad range of nucleic-acid (DNA, RNA) analyses across a wide range of sample sizes.



To provide our customers with more comprehensive sample-to-answer solutions, we acquired several companies: NextBio, a leader in clinical and genomic informatics, in November 2013, Advanced Liquid Logic Inc., a leader in digital microfluidics and liquid handling solutions, in July 2013, and Epicentre Technologies Corporation, a leading provider of nucleic-acid sample preparation reagents and specialty enzymes for sequencing and array applications, in January 2011.



Over the last few years, we have made key acquisitions to enable our goal of becoming a leader in the clinical market.  These include Myraqa, Inc. in July 2014, Verinata Health, Inc. in February 2013, and BlueGnome Ltd. in September 2012.  Our acquisition of Myraqa bolstered our regulatory and quality capabilities and enhanced our leadership team in molecular and companion diagnostics.  The acquisition of Verinata strengthened our reproductive health portfolio by adding the Verinata verifi prenatal test, a comprehensive noninvasive prenatal test (NIPT) for high-risk pregnancies.  Our acquisition of BlueGnome, a leading provider of genetic solutions for screening chromosomal abnormalities and genetic variations associated with developmental delay and infertility, expanded our ability to offer integrated solutions in reproductive health and cancer.



Genetics Primer



The instruction set for all living cells is encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA.  The complete set of DNA for any organism is referred to as its genome.  DNA contains small regions called genes, which comprise a string of nucleotide bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine, respectively.  These nucleotide bases occur in a precise order known as the DNA sequence.  When a gene is “expressed,” a partial copy of its DNA sequence called messenger RNA (mRNA) is used as a template to direct the synthesis of a particular protein.  Proteins, in turn, direct all cellular function.  The illustration below is a simplified gene expression schematic.











Variations among organisms are due, in large part, to differences in their DNA sequences.  Changes can result from insertions, deletions, inversions, translocations, or duplications of nucleotide bases.  These changes may result in certain genes becoming over-expressed (excessive protein production), under-expressed (reduced protein production), or silenced altogether, sometimes triggering changes in cellular function.  These changes can be the result of heredity, but most often they occur at random.  The most common form of variation in humans is called a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), which is a base change in a single position in a DNA sequence.  Another type of variation, copy number variations (CNVs), occur when there are fewer or more copies of certain genes, segments of a gene, or stretches of DNA.



In humans, genetic variation accounts for many of the physical differences we see (e.g., height, hair, eye color, etc.).  Genetic variations also can have medical consequences affecting disease susceptibility, including predisposition to complex genetic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer’s disease.  They can affect individual response to certain drug treatments, causing patients to experience adverse side effects, or to respond well or not at all.



Scientists are studying these variations and their consequences in humans, as well as in a broad range of animals, plants, and microorganisms.Such research takes place in government, university, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and agrigenomics laboratories around the world, where scientists expand our knowledge of the biological functions essential for life.  Beginning at the genetic level, Illumina tools are used to elucidate the correlation between gene sequence and biological processes.  Life-science research includes the study of the cells, tissues, organs, systems, and other components of living organisms.  This research supports the development of new treatments to improve human health.  Examples include more tailored clinical treatments, often referred to as precision medicine, as well as advances in agriculture and animal husbandry to meet growing needs for food and energy.  Researchers who investigate human, viral, and bacterial genetic variation to understand the mechanisms of disease are enabling the development of more effective diagnostics and therapeutics.  They also provide greater insight into genetic variation in plants (e.g., food and biofuel crops) and animals (e.g., livestock and domestic), enabling improvements in crop yields and animal breeding programs.



By empowering genetic analysis and facilitating a deeper understanding of genetic variation and function, our tools advance disease research, drug development, and the creation of molecular diagnostic tests.  We believe that this will trigger a fundamental shift in the practice of medicine and health care.  The increased emphasis on preventive and predictive molecular medicine will usher in the era of precision health care.



Our Principal Markets



Our business units are aligned to target the markets and customers outlined below.



Life Sciences



Historically, our core business has been in the life sciences research market, which includes laboratories associated with universities, medical research centers, and government institutions, along with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies.  Researchers at these institutions use our products and services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities for basic analysis and research, includingde novosequencing, genetic variation analysis, gene expression analysis, epigenetics, genome wide association studies, and targeted screening.  Increasingly, these techniques are migrating to next-generation sequencing (NGS) due to the improved performance, reduced complexity, and declining costs of NGS technologies.  Both private and public funding drive this research, along with global initiatives to characterize genetic variation and the migration of legacy genetic applications to sequencing-based technologies.



We also provide products and services for other life sciences applied markets such as agrigenomics.  Government and corporate researchers use our sequencing and array-based tools to accelerate and enhance agricultural research.  Identifying desirable traits in plants and animals leads to healthier and more productive crops and livestock.



Reproductive and Genetic Health



Illumina technologies and products provide reproductive-health solutions, including preimplantation genetic screening (PGS), preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD), noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT), and neonatal and genetic health testing.  Our PGS solutions are used with in-vitro fertilization (IVF) to determine, before implantation, whether an embryo has an abnormal number of chromosomes, which is a major cause of IVF failure and miscarriages.  Our PGD solutions identify, before implantation, which embryos are free from gene variants associated with genetic diseases.  Our NIPT solutions provide noninvasive tests for early identification of fetal chromosomal abnormalities by analyzing cell-free DNA in maternal blood.











Oncology



Cancer is a disease of the genome, and the goal of cancer genomics is to identify genomic changes that transform a normal cell into a cancerous one.  Understanding these genomic changes allow for a more accurate diagnosis, a better understanding of the prognosis, and the ability to target therapies to individuals.  Researchers and clinicians in the research, translational, and clinical oncology markets use Illumina sequencing and array-based solutions to identify the molecular changes in a tumor during all stages of tumor progression.  Our solutions help transform discoveries into new treatments or therapies and create tests to predict patient response.



To advance genomic-based precision health care, we are working with leading pharmaceutical companies to develop a universal NGS-based oncology test system for clinical trials of targeted cancer therapies.  The goal is to develop and commercialize a multi-gene panel for “companion therapeutic” selection.  We are also working with key thought leaders to set standards for NGS-based assays in routine clinical oncology practice and to define regulatory frameworks for this new testing paradigm.



Enterprise Informatics



Enterprise informatics solutions increase the utility of genomic data by allowing customers to aggregate, analyze, archive, and share genomic data.  Integrating our instruments with data-analysis software solutions allows customers to go from their biological sample, through the raw genomic data, to meaningful results.  Our BaseSpace platform, which can be hosted onsite or in the cloud, integrates directly with our sequencing instruments.  It facilitates data sharing, provides data storage solutions, and streamlines sequencing-data analysis through a growing number of data-analysis applications from Illumina and the bioinformatics community.



In 2013, we acquired NextBio, which provides a platform for aggregating and analyzing large quantities of genomic and phenotypic data.  Translational research uses this approach to optimize drug therapies and identify trends in overall patient outcomes.  We believe that large-scale genomic databases containing genomic and phenotypic information will enhance the value of human genome sequencing and accelerate the pace of discovery.



New and Emerging Opportunities



Our markets change rapidly in response to genomic innovations.  New applications and opportunities develop and evolve quickly.  We assess these against our corporate strategies and consider whether there is a compelling unmet need together with a strong opportunity to transform the market.  Some of the markets that provide immediate and near-term opportunities to expand the use of next-generation sequencing include:



•Transplant diagnostics, where sequencing is used to evaluate donor and patient compatibility;

•Forensic genomics, where sequencing is used to investigate criminal cases; and

•Consumer genomics, where genotyping is used primarily to reveal ancestry and genealogical linkage information.

Our Principal Products and Technologies



Our unique technology platforms support the scale of experimentation necessary for population-scale studies, genome-wide discovery, target selection, and validation studies (see Figure 1 below).  Customers use our products to analyze the genome at all levels of complexity, from whole-genome sequencing to targeted panels.  A large and dynamic Illumina user community has published more than 10,000 customer-authored scientific papers using our technologies.  Through rapid innovation, we are changing the economics of genetic research, enabling projects that were previously considered impossible, and supporting clinical advances towards precision medicine.



Most of our product sales consist of instruments and consumables (which include reagents, flow cells, and microarrays) based on our proprietary technologies.  For the fiscal years endedDecember 28, 2014,December 29, 2013, andDecember 30, 2012, instrument sales comprised30%,26%, and27%, respectively, of total revenues, and consumable sales represented56%,62%, and64%, respectively, of total revenues.











Figure 1: Illumina Platform Overview:



Sequencing



DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample.  Our portfolio of sequencing platforms represents a family of systems that we believe set the standard for productivity, cost-effectiveness, and accuracy among NGS technologies.  Customers use our platforms to perform whole-genome,de novo, and exome sequencing, and targeted resequencing of specific gene regions and genes.



Whole-genome sequencing determines the complete DNA sequence of an organism.  Inde novosequencing, the goal is to sequence and analyze a sample without using information from prior sequencing of that species.  In targeted resequencing, a portion of the sequence of an organism is compared to a standard or reference sequence from previously sequenced samples to identify genetic variation.  Understanding the similarities and differences in DNA sequence between and within species helps us understand the function of the structures encoded in the DNA.



Our DNA sequencing technology is based on our proprietary reversible terminator-based sequencing chemistry, referred to as sequencing by synthesis (SBS) biochemistry.  SBS tracks the addition of labeled nucleotides as the DNA chain is copied in a massively parallel fashion.  Our SBS sequencing technology provides researchers with a broad range of applications and the ability to sequence even large mammalian genomes in days rather than weeks or years.



Our sequencing platforms can generate between 500 megabases (Mb) and 1.8 terabases (Tb) (equivalent to 16 human genomes) of genomic data, depending on the instrument and application.  There are different price points per gigabase (Gb) for each instrument, and for different applications, which range from small-genome, amplicon, and targeted gene-panel sequencing to population-scale whole human genome sequencing.  Since we launched our first sequencing system in 2007, our systems have reduced the cost of sequencing by more than a factor of 10,000.  In addition, the sequencing time per Gb has dropped by a factor of nearly 2,000.



Arrays



Arrays are used for a broad range of DNA and RNA analysis applications, including SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression analysis, and methylation analysis, and allows for the detection of up to 5,000,000 known genetic markers on a single array.



Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously.   This facilitates large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function in a uniquely high-throughput, cost-effective, and flexible manner.  Using our BeadArray technology, we achieve high-throughput analysis via a high density of test sites per array and the ability to format arrays in various configurations.  We maximize cost effectiveness by reducing expensive consumables, valuable sample input requirements, and manufacturing costs. Varying the size, shape, and format of the well patterns and creating specific beadpools for different









applications lets us address multiple markets and market segments.  Our HiScan and iScan array scanner systems, and our NextSeq 550 system, which we announced in January 2015, image the arrays.



Consumables



We have developed various library preparation and sequencing kits to simplify workflows and accelerate analysis.  Our sequencing applications include whole-genome sequencing kits, which sequence entire genomes of any size and complexity, and targeted resequencing kits, which can sequence exomes, specific genes, or other genomic regions of interest.  Our sequencing kits maximize the ability of our customers to characterize the target genome accurately.  Through our acquisition of Epicentre Technologies Corporation in 2011, we acquired the proprietary Nextera technology for next-generation sequencing library preparation.  This technology has enabled us to reduce sample input requirements, simplify genetic analysis workflows, and significantly reduce the time from sample preparation to answer.



Customers use Illumina array-based genotyping consumables for a wide range of analyses, including diverse species, disease-related mutations, and genetic characteristics associated with cancer.  Customers can select from a range of human, animal, and agriculturally relevant genome panels or create their own custom arrays to investigate up to 5,000,000 genetic markers targeting any species.



Our Services



In addition to selling products, we provide genotyping, NIPT, and whole-genome sequencing services.  Human whole-genome sequencing services are provided through our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory.  We began offering genotyping services to academic institutions, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical customers in 2002, and added sequencing services in 2007.  Using our FastTrack services, customers can perform whole-genome sequencing projects (including phasing and long-read sequencing services) and microarray projects (including large-scale genotyping studies and whole-genome association studies).  We also provide NIPT services through our partner laboratories that direct samples to us on a test send-out basis.



Intellectual Property



We have an extensive intellectual property portfolio.  As of February 1, 2015, we own or have exclusive licenses to 473 issued U.S. patents and 421 pending U.S. patent applications, including 19 allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents.  Our issued patents cover various aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, digital microfluidics, and chemical-detection technologies, and have terms that expire between 2015 and 2035.  We continue to file new patent applications to protect the full range of our technologies.  We have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these patents and applications in foreign countries.



We protect trade secrets, know-how, copyrights, and trademarks, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position.  Our success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for our products and processes, preserving trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks, operating without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and acquiring licenses for technology or products.



We are party to various exclusive and nonexclusive license agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant us rights to use key aspects of our sequencing and array technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits, and scanning equipment.  Our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2015 and 2030.  We have additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third parties for other components of our products.  In most cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties.



Research and Development



Illumina has historically made substantial investments in research and development.  Our research and development efforts prioritize continuous innovation coupled with product evolution.



Research and development expenses for fiscal2014,2013, and2012were$388.1 million,$276.7 million, and$231.0 million, respectively.  We expect research and development expense to increase during2015to support business growth and continuing expansion in research and product-development efforts.











Marketing and Distribution



We market and distribute our products directly to customers in North America, Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific region.  In each of these areas, dedicated sales, service, and application-support personnel are expanding and supporting their respective customer bases.  In addition, we sell through life-science distributors in certain markets within Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America, the Middle East, and South Africa.  We expect to continue increasing our sales and distribution resources during2015and beyond as we launch new products and expand our potential customer base.



Manufacturing



Illumina manufactures sequencing and array platforms, reagent kits, and scanning equipment.  In 2014, we continued to increase our manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand.  To address increasing product complexity and volume, we are automating manufacturing processes to accelerate throughput and improve quality and yield.  Illumina is committed to providing medical devices and related services that consistently meet customer and applicable regulatory requirements.  We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances.  Our key manufacturing and distribution facilities operate under a quality management system certified to ISO 13485.



Raw Materials



Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and biochemical materials, and other supplies.  Multiple commercial sources provide many of our components and supplies, but there are some raw materials and components that we obtain from single-source suppliers.  To manage potential risks arising from single source suppliers, we believe that we could redesign our products using alternative components or for use with alternative reagents, if necessary.  In addition, while we attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain.  If the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products.



Competition



Although we believe that our products and services provide significant advantages over products and services currently available from other sources, we expect continued intense competition.  Our competitors offer products and services for sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression, and molecular diagnostics markets.  They include companies such as Affymetrix, Inc., Agilent Technologies, Inc., BGI, Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc., QIAGEN N.V., Roche Holding AG., and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., among others.  Some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources than we do, along with larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service organizations.  In addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we address, and in some cases a larger installed base of systems.  We expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase.  To compete effectively, we must scale our organization and infrastructure appropriately and demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost, and accuracy.



Segment and Geographic Information



In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for segment reporting, we have determined that we have one reportable segment for purposes of recording and reporting our financial results.



We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside the United States, including customers in other areas of North America, Latin America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region.  Shipments to customers outside the United States totaled$910.7 million, or49%of our total revenue, during fiscal2014, compared to$706.5 million, or50%, and$580.1 million, or51%, in fiscal2013and2012, respectively.  The U.S. dollar has been determined to be the functional currency of the Company’s international operations due to the primary activities of our foreign subsidiaries.  We expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue.  See note “13. Segment Information, Geographic Data, and Significant Customers” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information concerning our foreign and domestic operations.











Backlog



Our backlog was approximately$540 millionand$330 millionas ofDecember 28, 2014, andDecember 29, 2013, respectively.  Approximately $130 million of our backlog as ofDecember 28, 2014, was associated with the Genomics England sequencing services project, the delivery of which is expected to be completed by the end of 2017.  Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance-sheet date.  However, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products.  The timing of shipments depends on several factors, including agreed upon shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and whether the product is catalog or custom.  We expect most of the backlog as ofDecember 28, 2014, to be shipped within the fiscal year endingJanuary 3, 2016, with the exception of the Genomics England backlog.  Although we generally recognize revenue upon the transfer of title to a customer, some customer agreements or applicable accounting treatments might require us to defer the recognition of revenue beyond title transfer.



Environmental Matters



We are committed to the protection of our employees and the environment.  Our operations require the use of hazardous materials that subject us to various federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations.  We believe that we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations.  However, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur.  In addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance.



Government Regulation



As we expand product lines to address the diagnosis of disease, regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries will become an increasingly significant factor in development, testing, production, and marketing.  Products that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries.  In the United States, certain of our products may require FDA clearance following a pre-market notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA before marketing.  The shorter 510(k) clearance process, which we used for the FDA-cleared assays that are run on our FDA-regulated MiSeqDx instrument, generally takes from three to six months after submission, but it can take significantly longer.  The longer PMA process is much more costly and uncertain.  It generally takes from 9 to 18 months after a complete filing, but it can take significantly longer and typically requires conducting clinical studies, which are not always needed for a 510(k) clearance.  All of the products that are currently regulated by the FDA as medical devices are also subject to the FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR).  Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals, including the FDA quality system inspections that are required for PMA approval, can be expensive and may involve considerable delay.



We cannot be certain which of our planned molecular diagnostic products will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process and, in fact, some of our products may need to go through the PMA process.  The regulatory approval process for such products may be significantly delayed, may be significantly more expensive than anticipated, and may conclude without such products being approved by the FDA.  Without timely regulatory approval, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products.



Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products.  This may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory approval of our products.  In addition, the FDA may introduce new requirements that may change the regulatory requirements for either or both Illumina or Illumina customers.



If our products labeled as “Research Use Only,” or RUO, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain.  This is true even if such use by our customers occurs without our consent.  If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.



Illumina products sold as medical devices in Europe will be regulated under the In Vitro Diagnostics Directive (98/79/EC).  This regulation includes requirements for both presentation and review of performance data and quality-system requirements.



Certain of our diagnostic products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments (CLIA) of 1988.  These products are commonly called “laboratory developed tests,” or









LDTs.  For a number of years, the FDA has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion to not regulate LDTs as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory.  However, as discussed in more detail under “Risk Factors,” the FDA is reexamining this regulatory approach and changes to the agency’s handling of LDTs could impact our business in ways that cannot be predicted at this time.  Certification of CLIA laboratories includes standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, and quality control procedures. CLIA also mandates that, for high complexity labs such as ours, to operate as a lab, we must have an accreditation by an organization recognized by CLIA such as the College of Pathologists (CAP), which we have obtained and must maintain.  If we were to lose our CAP accreditation, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.  In addition, state laboratory licensing and inspection requirements may also apply to our products, which, in some cases, are more stringent than CLIA requirements.



Employees



As ofDecember 28, 2014, we hadmore than 3,700employees.  We consider our employee relations to be positive.  Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees.  In addition, we employ a number of temporary and contract employees.  We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations.





