ITEM 1.Business.

Overview

We are a leading developer, manufacturer, and marketer of life science tools and integrated systems for the analysis of genetic variation and function.  We were incorporated in California in April 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000.  Our principal executive offices are located at 5200 Illumina Way, San Diego, California 92122.  Our telephone number is (858) 202-4500.



Using our proprietary technologies, we provide innovative sequencing- and array-based solutions for genotyping, copy number variation analysis, methylation studies, and gene expression profiling of DNA and RNA.  Our customers include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, hospitals, and reference laboratories as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, commercial molecular diagnostic, and consumer genomics companies.



Our broad portfolio of systems, consumables, and analysis tools are designed to accelerate and simplify genetic analysis.  This portfolio addresses a range of genomic complexity, price points, and throughputs, enabling customers to select the best solution for their scientific challenge.  Our leading edge sequencing instruments can be used to efficiently perform a range of nucleic acid (DNA, RNA) analyses on large numbers of samples.  For more focused studies, our array-based solutions provide ideal tools to perform genome-wide association studies (GWAS) involving single-nucleotide polymorphism, genotyping and copy number variation analyses, as well as gene expression profiling, and other DNA and RNA studies.



To provide our customers with more comprehensive sample-to-answer workflow solutions, we acquired: NextBio, a leader in clinical and genomic informatics, in November 2013; Advanced Liquid Logic Inc., a leader in digital microfluidics and liquid handling solutions, in July 2013; and Epicentre Technologies Corporation, a leading provider of nucleic acid sample preparation reagents and specialty enzymes for sequencing and microarray applications, in 2011.



Over the last two years, we have taken significant steps to support our goal of becoming a leader in the reproductive health market by acquiring Verinata Health, Inc. (Verinata) in February 2013 and BlueGnome Ltd. (BlueGnome) in 2012.  Our acquisition of Verinata further strengthened our focus on reproductive health by adding to our portfolio Verinata’s verifi® prenatal test, a comprehensive non-invasive prenatal test (NIPT) for high-risk pregnancies, and what we believe to be the most comprehensive intellectual property portfolio in the NIPT industry.  Our acquisition of BlueGnome, a leading provider of genetic solutions for the screening of chromosomal abnormalities and genetic variations associated with developmental delay, cancer, and infertility, expanded our ability to establish integrated solutions in reproductive health and cancer.



Industry Background



Genetics Primer



The instruction set for all living cells is encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, with the complete set of DNA for any organism referred to as its genome.  DNA contains small regions called genes, which comprise a string of nucleotide bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine, respectively.  These nucleotide bases are present in a precise order known as the DNA sequence.  When a gene is “expressed,” a partial copy of its DNA sequence - called messenger RNA (mRNA) - is used as a template to direct the synthesis of a particular protein.  Proteins, in turn, direct all cellular function.  The illustration below is a simplified gene expression schematic.











Variations among organisms are due, in large part, to differences in their DNA sequences.  Changes caused by insertions, deletions, inversions, translocations, or duplications of nucleotide bases may result in certain genes becoming over-expressed (excessive protein production), under-expressed (reduced protein production), or silenced altogether, sometimes triggering changes in cellular function.  These changes can be the result of heredity, but most often they occur at random.  The most common form of variation in humans is called a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), which is a variation in a single position of a nucleotide base in a DNA sequence.  Copy number variations (CNVs) occur when there are fewer or more copies of certain genes, segments of a gene, or stretches of DNA.



In humans, genetic variation accounts for many of the physical differences we see (e.g., height, hair, eye color, etc.).  More importantly, these genetic variations can have medical consequences affecting disease susceptibility, including predisposition to complex genetic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer’s disease.  They can also impact an individual’s response to certain drug treatments, causing them to respond well, not respond at all, or experience adverse side effects - an area of study known as pharmacogenomics.



Scientists are studying these variations and their consequences in humans, as well as a broad range of animals, plants, and microorganisms.  Researchers investigating human, viral, and bacterial genetic variation are helping us to better understand the mechanisms of disease, and thereby develop more effective therapeutics and diagnostics.  Greater insight into genetic variation in plants (e.g., food and biofuel crops) and animals (e.g., livestock and domestic animals) is enabling scientists to improve crop yields and animal breeding programs.



The methods for studying genetic variation and biological function include sequencing, SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression profiling, and gene regulation and epigenetic analysis, each of which is addressed by our breadth of products and services.



Life Sciences Research Primer



Life science research encompasses the study of all living things, from humans, animals, and plants, to viruses and bacteria.  It is being performed in government, university, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and agrigenomics laboratories around the world, where scientists are seeking to expand our knowledge of the biological functions essential for life.  Beginning at the genetic level, where our tools are used to elucidate the correlation between gene sequence and biological processes, life science research expands to include the study of the cells, tissues, organs, systems, and other components that make up living organisms.  This research supports development of new, more effective clinical diagnostics and medicines to improve human health, as well as advances in agriculture and animal husbandry to meet the world’s growing needs for food and energy.



Molecular Diagnostics Primer



Molecular diagnostic assays (or tests) are designed to identify the biological indicators linked with disease and drug response, providing physicians with information to more effectively diagnose, treat, and monitor both acute and chronic disease conditions.  They are an integral part of personalized healthcare, where the unique makeup of each individual can be taken into account in diagnosing disease and managing treatment through the use of precision therapies.  Biological indicators that can be measured by these assays include protein or gene expression, methylation levels, copy number variations, and the presence or absence of a specific gene or group of genes.











There are molecular diagnostics assays in development and on the market, including assays for infectious disease, cancer, and heart disease, as well as molecular-based drug metabolism and response assays to help physicians understand a patient’s disease risk profile or to select the most effective therapy with the fewest side effects.  Our innovative technologies and products are contributing to the development of a wide range of genomic-based molecular diagnostics assays, including our own FDA-cleared MiSeqDx Cystic Fibrosis System, which offers a complete solution for accurate, comprehensive cystic fibrosis testing.



Increased public knowledge about ancestral and genealogical information derived from genomic data and the clinical relevance of genetic markers has prompted consumer interest in having personal genomes analyzed, sparking the development of the consumer genomics market.  Several companies, including Illumina, now offer personal sequencing or genotyping services, working with physician groups and genetic counselors to interpret the results for consumers.



We believe the growth in consumer genomics and the use of genomic-based diagnostic assays will trigger a fundamental shift in the practice of medicine and the economics of the pharmaceutical industry and health care by facilitating an increased emphasis on preventative and predictive molecular medicine, ushering in the era of personalized healthcare.



Our Principal Markets



We believe that genomics will play an increasingly important role in molecular biology, and that by empowering genetic analysis, our tools will advance disease research, drug development, and the creation of molecular diagnostic tests.  In addition to developing sequencing- and array-based solutions for life science, applied, and consumer genomics markets, we are facilitating the transition of sequencing to the clinic, by supporting and carrying out clinical trials to gather data for regulatory submissions in the United States and globally, and establishing infrastructure to offer products designed and manufactured in compliance with global quality standards for medical devices.  Effective December 30, 2013, we realigned our business to target the markets and customers outlined below on a more comprehensive basis.



Life Sciences



Historically, our core business has been in the life sciences research market, which consists of laboratories generally associated with universities, medical research centers, and government institutions, as well as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies.  Researchers at these institutions are using our products and services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities, such as: next-generation sequencing, mid-to-high-complexity genotyping and gene expression (for whole-genome discovery and profiling), and low complexity genotyping and gene expression (for high-throughput targeted screening).  Sequencing is growing the most rapidly among these three areas due to the improved performance of next generation sequencing technologies.  It is fueled by private and public funding, new global initiatives to broadly characterize genetic variation, and the migration of legacy genetic applications to sequencing-based technologies.



We also provide products and services for other life sciences applied markets, such as the agricultural genomics market, where government and corporate researchers use our sequencing- and array-based tools to accelerate and enhance agricultural research to help identify desirable traits in plants and animals, leading to healthier and more productive crops and livestock.



Reproductive and Genetic Health



Our technologies and products provide reproductive health solutions ranging from preimplantation genetic screening (PGS), preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD), non-invasive prenatal testing (NIPT), as well as neonatal and genetic health testing.  Our PGS solutions are used in connection with in-vitro fertilizations (IVF) to determine, before implantation, whether an embryo has an abnormal number of chromosomes, which is a major cause of IVF failure and miscarriages.  In IVF cases where there is a family history of disease or when one or both parents are carriers for certain genetic conditions, our PGD solutions identify, before implantation, which embryos have genes associated with severe genetic disorders.  Our NIPT solutions provide non-invasive tests for early identification of fetal chromosomal abnormalities by analyzing cell-free DNA in maternal blood, and our neonatal and carrier screening solutions provide early identification of genetic disorders in newborns as well as adults who are considering their reproductive options.



Oncology



Cancer is a disease of the genome, and the goal of cancer genomics is to identify genomic changes that transform a normal cell into a cancerous one.  Understanding these genomic changes may lead to a more accurate diagnosis, a better understanding of the prognosis, and the selection of individually targeted therapies.  Our sequencing- and array-based solutions provide researchers and clinicians in the research, translational, and clinical oncology markets with tools to identify the









molecular changes in a tumor, during all stages of tumor progression, transform discoveries into new treatments or therapies for cancer patients, and create diagnostic tests to identify patients most likely to be helped or harmed by a particular treatment or therapy.



Enterprise Informatics



Enterprise informatics solutions increase the utility of genomic data by providing tools that allow customers to analyze, archive, and share genomic data.  The integration of our instruments with data analysis software solutions allow customers to go from raw genomic data to meaningful results.  Our BaseSpace genomics analysis platform, which can be hosted onsite or in a cloud-based system, integrates directly with our sequencing instruments to streamline sequencing-data analysis, facilitate data sharing, provide data storage solutions, and provide access to a growing number of data analysis applications.



In 2013, we acquired NextBio, which provides a platform for aggregating and analyzing large quantities of genomic and phenotypic data for research and clinical applications.  Ultimately, we believe that large-scale genomic databases containing both genomic and phenotypic information will enhance the value of human genome sequencing and accelerate the pace of discovery.



New and Emerging Markets



Our markets are characterized by rapid change and innovation brought about by next generation sequencing, and new applications and opportunities appear and evolve quickly.  Through our new and emerging market business unit we assess new opportunities against our corporate strategies and consider whether there is a compelling unmet need and the opportunity to transform the market with our products and services.  Some of the markets that provide immediate and near-term opportunities to expand the use of next generation sequencing include:  transplant diagnostics, where sequencing is used to evaluate donor and patient compatibility; forensic genomics, where sequencing is used to investigate criminal cases; consumer genomics, where genotyping is primarily used to reveal ancestry and genealogical linkage information; and population sequencing, where sequencing is used to catalogue the complete spectrum of genetic variation in large populations.



Our Principal Technologies



Our unique technology platforms enable the scale of experimentation necessary for population-scale studies, genome-wide discovery, target selection, and validation studies (see Figure 1 below).  More than 10,000 customer-authored scientific papers have been published to date using these technologies, representing the efforts of a large and dynamic Illumina user community.  Through rapid innovation, we are changing the economics of genetic research, enabling projects that were previously considered unapproachable.



Figure 1: Illumina Platform Overview:













Sequencing Technology



DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample.  Our portfolio of sequencing platforms represents a family of systems that we believe are setting the standard for productivity, cost-effectiveness, and accuracy among next-generation sequencing technologies.  They are used by customers to perform whole-genome, de novo, exome, and targeted re-sequencing of genomes, and to analyze specific gene regions and genes.



Whole-genome sequencing determines an organism’s complete DNA sequence.  In de novo sequencing, the goal is to sequence a representative sample from a species never before sequenced.  In targeted re-sequencing, a sequence of nucleotide bases is compared to a standard or reference sequence from a previously sequenced species to identify changes that reflect genetic variation.  Understanding the similarities and differences in DNA sequence between and within species furthers our understanding of the function of the structures encoded in the DNA.



Our DNA sequencing technology is based on our proprietary reversible terminator-based sequencing chemistry, referred to as sequencing by synthesis (SBS) biochemistry, and tracks the addition of labeled nucleotides as the DNA chain is copied - in a massively parallel fashion.  Our SBS sequencing technology provides researchers with a broad range of applications and the ability to sequence even large mammalian genomes in days rather than weeks or years. Our highest throughput sequencing instrument, the HiSeq X, has the ability to generate up to 1.8 terabases (Tb) (16 human genomes) of DNA sequence in less than three days. Since the launch of our first sequencing system in 2007, our systems have reduced the cost of sequencing by more than a factor of 10,000 and decreased the sequencing time per gigabase (Gb) by nearly a factor of 2,000.



BeadArray Technology



Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously, enabling large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function in a unique high-throughput, cost effective, and flexible manner.  The arrays manufactured using BeadArray technology are imaged by our HiScan and iScan systems for a broad range of DNA and RNA analysis applications including SNP discovery, SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression analysis, and methylation analysis.



Our proprietary BeadArray technology consists of microscopic silica beads, with each bead covered with hundreds of thousands of copies of oligonucleotides, or oligos, that act as the capture sequences in one of our assays.  We deploy our BeadArray technology on BeadChips - silicon wafers the size of a microscope slide, with varying numbers of sample sites per slide.  BeadChips are chemically etched to create tens of millions of wells for each sample site.



Using our BeadArray technology, we achieve high-throughput analysis with a high density of test sites per array, and are able to format arrays in various configurations.  We seek to maximize cost effectiveness by reducing use of expensive consumables and valuable samples, and through the low manufacturing costs associated with our technologies.  Our ability to vary the size, shape, and format of the well patterns and to create specific bead pools for different applications provides the flexibility to address multiple markets and market segments.



Our Products



Our products give our customers the ability to analyze the genome at any level of complexity, from whole-genome sequencing to targeted panels, and enable us to serve a number of markets, including research, agriculture, reproductive and genetic health, oncology, pharmaceuticals, commercial molecular diagnostic, and consumer genomics companies.



The majority of our product sales consist of instruments and consumables (which include reagents, flow cells, and BeadChips) based on our proprietary technologies.  For the fiscal years endedDecember 29, 2013,December 30, 2012, andJanuary 1, 2012, instrument sales comprised26%,27%, and35%, respectively, of total revenues, and consumable sales represented62%,64%, and56%, respectively, of total revenues.



Sequencing Platforms



Based on our proprietary SBS technology, our next-generation sequencing platforms are designed to meet the workflow, output, and accuracy demands of a full range of sequencing applications.  Our sequencing platforms can generate between 500 Mb and 1.8 Tb of genomic data, depending on the instrument and application, at different price points per Gb and for different applications ranging from small genome, amplicon, and targeted gene panel sequencing to population-scale whole human genome sequencing.











Array Platforms



The HiScan and iScan Systems are dedicated array scanners that support the rapid, sensitive, and accurate imaging of our array-based genetic analysis products.  They incorporate high-performance lasers, optics, and detection systems, delivering sub-micron resolution and unmatched throughput rates.  The HiScan and iScan support our Infinium, GoldenGate, DASL, gene expression, and methylation assays.



Consumables



We have developed a variety of sample preparation and sequencing kits to simplify workflows and accelerate analysis.  Our sequencing applications include whole-genome sequencing kits, which enable sequencing of entire genomes of any size and complexity, and targeted resequencing kits, which enable sequencing of exomes, specific genes, or other genomic regions of interest.  Our sequencing kits enable researchers to extend read lengths, achieve higher Gb of mappable data, and deliver the highest yield of perfect reads to maximize the ability to accurately characterize the target genome.  Through our acquisition of Epicentre Technologies Corporation in 2011, we acquired the proprietary Nextera technology for next-generation sequencing library preparation.  This technology has enabled us to offer sequencing library preparation kits with lower sample input requirements that greatly simplify genetic analysis workflows and significantly reduce the time from sample preparation to answer.



Our array-based genotyping consumables enable customers to perform a wide-range of analyses, including analyzing diversity across a species, disease-related mutations, and genetic characteristics associated with cancer.  Customers may select from a range of human, animal, and agriculturally relevant genome panels or create their own custom arrays that can be used to investigate up to 1,000,000 genetic markers targeting any species.



Our Services



In addition to the products we supply to customers, we also provide genotyping and whole genome sequencing services through our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory.



FastTrack Services



One of the ways in which we compete and extend the reach of our systems in the genetic analysis market is to deliver services that leverage our proprietary technologies and the expertise of our scientists to perform genotyping and sequencing services for our customers.  We began offering genotyping services to academic institutions, biotechnology, and pharmaceutical customers in 2002, and we expanded to deliver sequencing services in 2007.  Using our FastTrack services, customers can perform whole-genome sequencing projects (including phasing and long-read sequencing services) and microarray projects (including whole-genome association studies, DNA copy number studies, linkage analysis, fine mapping, and DNA methylation studies).



Service Partnership Programs



To complement our own service capabilities, we have developed partnered programs such as our Certified Service Providers (CSPro) and Illumina Genome Network (IGN), to create a world-wide network of Illumina technology-enabled service offerings that broaden our market reach.  Illumina CSPro is a collaborative service partnership established between Illumina and leading genome centers and research laboratories to ensure the delivery of high-quality genetic analysis services.  It provides a competitive advantage for service providers, while also ensuring that customers will receive Illumina data quality and service.  To become a CSPro provider, participating laboratories must complete a three-phased Illumina certification process.  There are more than 90 Illumina CSPro-certified organizations worldwide providing sequencing, genotyping, and gene expression services using our technologies and products.



Introduced in 2010, the IGN links researchers interested in conducting large whole genome sequencing projects with leading institutes worldwide that possess our next-generation sequencing technology.  The IGN provides a cost-effective and dependable way to complete large sequencing projects.  All IGN partners are experienced and well-published using Illumina technology, and each has completed Illumina’s Certified Service Provider (CSPro) certification.  Each IGN partner possesses ten or more high-throughput Illumina sequencing systems, providing the scalability to handle even the largest sequencing projects with rapid completion times.  Current members include: British Columbia Cancer Agency’s Genome Sciences Centre; Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory; HudsonAlpha Institute for Biotechnology; Macrogen; the Northwest Genomics Center at the University of Washington; the New York Genome Center; Takara Bio; and Illumina’s own FastTrack Services.











Individual Genome Sequencing



Since June 2009, Illumina's Clinical Services Laboratory has been offering personal genome sequencing from our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory using Illumina next-generation sequencing technology.  We offer a variety of individual sequencing options, including: the TruGenome Undiagnosed Disease Test, which aids in the diagnosis of inherited diseases of a single-gene; the TruGenome Predisposition Screen, which evaluates carrier status and enables patient-physician discussions about managing risk for a pre-defined set of adult-onset conditions; and TruGenome Technical Sequence Data, which provides whole-genome sequencing services for situations where the physician is able to analyze and interpret whole-genome sequencing data.  For each service, individuals are required to follow our physician-mediated process, which involves pre-service consultation and informed consent that includes review of the information potentially to be learned in the report.  The final genome data is returned to the physician who then meets with the patient and discusses implications and possible actions based on the results.



Intellectual Property



We have an extensive intellectual property portfolio, including, as of February 1, 2014, ownership of, or exclusive licenses to, 402 issued U.S. patents and 383 pending U.S. patent applications, including 22 allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents.  Our issued patents include those directed to various aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, and chemical detection technologies, and have terms that expire between 2014 and 2032.  We continue to file new patent applications to protect the full range of our technologies.  We have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these patents and applications in foreign countries.



We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, copyright, and trademark protection, as well as continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position.  Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patent protection for our products and processes, to preserve our trade secrets, to enforce our patents, copyrights and trademarks, to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and to acquire licenses related to enabling technology or products.



We are party to various exclusive and non-exclusive license agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant us rights to use key aspects of our array and sequencing technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits, and scanning equipment.  Our exclusive licenses expire with the termination of the underlying patents, which will occur between 2014 and 2020.  We have additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third parties for other components of our products.  In most cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties while the agreement is in effect.



Research and Development



We have made substantial investments in research and development since our inception.  We have assembled a team of skilled scientists and engineers who are specialists in biology, chemistry, informatics, instrumentation, optical systems, software, manufacturing, and other related areas required to complete the development of our products.  Our research and development efforts have focused primarily on the tasks required to optimize and support commercialization of the products and services derived from our technologies.



Our research and development expenses for fiscal2013,2012, and2011were$276.7 million,$231.0 million, and$196.9 million, respectively.  We expect research and development expense to increase during2014to support the growth of our business and as we continue to expand our research and product development efforts.



Marketing and Distribution



Our current products address the genetic analysis portion of the life sciences market, in particular, experiments involving sequencing, SNP genotyping, and gene expression profiling.  These experiments include many areas of biologic research, including basic human disease research, pharmaceutical drug discovery and development, pharmacogenomics, toxicogenomics, and animal and agricultural research.  Our potential customers include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, hospitals, reference laboratories, and clinical research organizations, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agrigenomics, commercial molecular diagnostic, and consumer genomics companies.



We market and distribute our products directly to customers in North America, Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific region.  In each of these areas, we have dedicated sales, service, and application support personnel responsible for expanding and managing their respective customer bases.  In addition, in certain markets within Europe, the Asia-Pacific









region, Latin America, the Middle East, and South Africa we sell our products and provide services to customers through distributors that specialize in life science products.  We expect to continue to increase our sales and distribution resources during2014and beyond as we launch a number of new products and expand the number of customers that can use our products.



Manufacturing



We manufacture sequencing and array platforms, reagent kits, and scanning equipment.  Our manufacturing capacity for consumables and instruments has grown during 2013 to support increased customer demand.  We are exploring ways to increase the level of automation in the manufacturing process to continue to accelerate throughput and improve the quality and manufacturing yield as we increase the complexity of our products.  We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances.  Our key manufacturing and distribution facilities operate under a quality management system certified to ISO 13485, which demonstrates the organization’s ability to provide medical devices and related services that consistently meet customer and applicable regulatory requirements.



Raw Materials



Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and biochemical materials, and other supplies.  We have multiple commercial sources for many of our components and supplies; however, there are some raw materials and components that we obtain from single source suppliers.  To mitigate potential risks arising from single source suppliers, we believe that we can redesign our products for alternative components or use alternative reagents, if required.  In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain.



Competition



Although we believe that our products and services provide significant advantages over products and services currently available from other sources, we expect to continue to encounter intense competition from other companies that offer products and services for sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression, and molecular diagnostics markets.  These include companies such as Affymetrix, Inc.; Agilent Technologies, Inc.; BGI; Luminex Corporation; Pacific Biosciences of California, Inc.; QIAGEN N.V.; Roche Holding AG.; and Thermo Fisher Scientific, Inc., among others.  Some of these companies have or will have substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources and larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service organizations than we do.  In addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we address and in some cases a larger installed base of systems.  Each of these markets is very competitive and we expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase.  In order to effectively compete with these companies, we will need to demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost, and accuracy advantages over competing products.



Segment and Geographic Information



In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance for segment reporting, we have determined that we have one operating segment for purposes of recording and reporting our financial results.



We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside the United States, including customers in other areas of North America, Latin America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region.  Shipments to customers outside the United States totaled$706.5 million, or50%of our total revenue, during fiscal2013, compared to$580.1 million, or51%, and$526.8 million, or50%, in fiscal2012and2011, respectively.  The U.S. dollar has been determined to be the functional currency of the Company’s international operations due to the primary economic environment of our foreign subsidiaries.  We expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue.  See note “13. Segment Information, Geographic Data, and Significant Customers” in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information concerning our foreign and domestic operations.



Backlog



Our backlog was approximately$330 millionand$260 millionatDecember 29, 2013andDecember 30, 2012, respectively.  Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance sheet date; however, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products.  The timing of shipments depends on several factors, including agreed upon shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and whether the product is catalog or custom.









We expect the majority of the backlog as ofDecember 29, 2013, to be shipped within the fiscal year endingDecember 28, 2014.  Although we generally recognize revenue upon the transfer of title to a customer, we may be required to defer the recognition of revenue even after title transfer depending on the specific arrangement with a customer and the applicable accounting treatment.



Seasonality



Historically, demand for our products is affected by a number of variables, namely spending associated with the end of the U.S. government fiscal year as well as the end of the calendar year, and lower consumable utilization during the summer vacation months in Europe.  During 2013, we saw sequential revenue growth due to demand for our innovative products and a slight benefit from calendar year-end spending.



Environmental Matters



We are committed to the protection of our employees and the environment.  Our operations require the use of hazardous materials that subject us to a variety of federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations.  We believe we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations; however, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur.  In addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance.



Government Regulation



As we continue to expand our product lines to encompass products that are intended to be used for the diagnosis of disease, regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries will be a significant factor in the development, testing, production, and marketing of such products.  Products that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending on their intended use, will be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries and may require either receiving clearance following a pre-market notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or premarket approval (PMA), from the FDA prior to marketing.  Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals can be expensive and may involve considerable delay.



The shorter 510(k) clearance process, which we utilized for our FDA-cleared MiSeqDx instrument, generally takes from three to six months after submission, but it can take significantly longer.  The 510(k) submission process may be utilized if it is demonstrated that the new product is “substantially equivalent” to a similar product that has already been cleared by the FDA.  The longer PMA process, which we intend to use for an IVD version of our HiSeq 2500 system, is much more costly, uncertain, and generally takes from nine months to one year after filing, but it can take significantly longer.  Because we cannot be certain that any molecular diagnostic products that we develop will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, or will ultimately be approved at all, the regulatory approval process for such products may be significantly delayed and may be significantly more expensive than anticipated.  If we fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, regulatory approvals for molecular diagnostic products that we develop, we may not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products in a timely manner, or at all.



Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products, which may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory approval of our products, if required.



In addition, if our products labeled as “Research Use Only,” or RUO, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain, even if such use by our customers is without our consent.  If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.



Employees



As ofDecember 29, 2013, we hadmore than 3,000employees.  We consider our employee relations to be positive.  Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees.  In addition, we employ a number of temporary and contract employees.  We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities, and other organizations.













