ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS









We have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility.

As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately $7 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding.  This amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments.  Further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control.  If we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital.

General economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results.

Our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates.  A weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues.  In addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels.  Consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide.  Additionally, the decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs.  We cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions would not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy.  Accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Weakness in the U.S. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts, industrial customers and others.

Weakness in the U.S. economy reduces the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies.  We provide services to a number of these agencies, including numerous municipalities.  These governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us.  In addition, weakness in the economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts or industrial clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us.  This could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively.

We principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies.  Competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services.  Competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations.  One of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do.  Further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing.  Our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste.  In certain markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, from time to time our collection operations may have difficulty competing effectively.  If we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume.

We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset higher costs, to maintain or improve operating margins, and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills.  From time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share.  Contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices.  For example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index.  Particularly in a weak U.S. economy such as the current one, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index.  This may continue to be the case even when the U.S. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy.  As a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases.  Price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors.









Increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers.

We depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal.  Fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns.  Due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees.  Our fuel costs were$500.0 millionin 2014, or5.7% of revenue, compared to $516.7 million in 2013, or 6.1% of our revenue.

To manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount.  During 2014, approximately20%of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements.  Additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers.  For 2014, we were able to recover approximately78%of our fuel costs with fuel recovery fees.  At current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately$26 millionon an annual basis.  Offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers.  At current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately$25 million.  Accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations.

Over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. The renewable fuel standards that the EPA sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses.  Pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the EPA establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel).  These volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must contain renewable fuels (as designated by regulation).  The total volume metrics for each year vary based upon a number of factors (e.g., the availability of such fuels), and it is difficult to predict the ultimate quantity that the EPA will eventually mandate for 2015 and beyond.  These regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use.

Our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals.  An increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs.  Petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals.  We are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors.

Fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties.  Our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. The resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control.  These fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

To manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range.  During 2014, approximately6%of our tonnage sold was hedged with such arrangements.  At current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately$28 millionand$16 million, respectively, on an annual basis.  Accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations.











Adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal.

Our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing.  Recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the EPA projecting a 4° to 11° Fahrenheit temperature increase in the United States by the end of the century.  In addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events.  Any of these factors could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers.  In addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods.

We may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy.

Our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt.  The credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future.  If we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected.

Our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value.  We cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program.

The solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business.

Our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital.  If our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend.  Additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase.  Our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control.  Increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows.

We may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs.









If we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.

A landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized.  We have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills.  We establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations.  We could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose.  Additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated.  If our capping, closure or post-closure costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline.

The possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income.

In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects.  If a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise.  We also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events.  We may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments.  Such charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations.

We are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability.

Complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly.  Laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations.  In addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes.

Our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility or facilities.  Such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal.

In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and









regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage.  As a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  We establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations.  We could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. Such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income.

Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate.

Efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress.  Our landfill operations emit anthropogenic methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas.  Conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely.  Nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict.

Absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, the EPA is moving ahead administratively under its existing Clean Air Act authority.  The EPA is compelled to issue rules by the U.S. Supreme Court's April 2007Massachusetts v. EPAruling that greenhouse gases are “pollutants” for purposes of the Clean Air Act and the EPA's December 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare.  With respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, the EPA has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards.  the EPA and the NHTSA have finalized such regulations applicable to heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2018 and to light-duty vehicles through model-year 2025.  We cannot assure you that federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

We may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. Changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results.

We may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment arising from our operations or properties.  We maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage.  If we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability.  This could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums.  As we assume more risk for insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense.











Despite our efforts, we may incur additional liability under environmental laws in excess of amounts presently known and accrued.

We are a potentially responsible party at many sites under CERCLA, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a “hazardous substance.”  CERCLA liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). Hundreds of substances are defined as “hazardous” under CERCLA and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability.

Notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may have additional liability under environmental laws in excess of our current reserves because, among other things, hazardous substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills (or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired), environmental laws may change, or there may be adverse environmental conditions that develop or were otherwise previously unknown to us.  For example, during 2012 through 2014, we recorded an aggregate of $393.4 million in charges relating to environmental remediation at our closed landfill in Bridgeton, Missouri.  Actual costs for liabilities at Bridgeton or other sites could be significantly greater than amounts we have accrued for these purposes.  Environmental liabilities in excess of our current reserves could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements.

We are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business.  Many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties.  The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain.  Further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We may be unable to manage our growth effectively.

Our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources.  To continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems.  We cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required.

We may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy.

Our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business.  The integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management.  In addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates.  Thus, we cannot assure you that:

•desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified;

•we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified;

•we will effectively integrate and manage companies we acquire; or

•any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings.

If any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected.

Businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities.

Our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities.  If we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities.  We try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets.  However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions.









Our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results.

Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates.  Actual results may differ from these amounts.  Significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, multiemployer pension plans, employee benefit plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, insurance and our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. We cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face.

The introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations.

Complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or financial conditions in future periods.

We may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations.

As of December 31, 2014, approximately27%of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions.  If our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management's attention and result in increased operating costs.  If a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs.

Our obligation to fund multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse impact on us.

We contribute to27multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) covering union-represented employees.  Approximately20%of our total current employees participate in such multiemployer plans.  We do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans.  The Pension Protection Act enacted in 2006 (the PPA) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios.  Based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute are either “critical” or “endangered” as those terms are defined in the PPA.  Except as discussed in Note 11,Employee Benefit Plans,to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities.  However, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period.

Further, under current law, upon the termination of a multiemployer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a Withdrawal Event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities.  We cannot assure you that there will not be a Withdrawal Event with respect to any of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a Withdrawal Event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

For additional discussion and detail regarding multiemployer pension plans see, Note 11,Employee Benefit Plans,to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

The costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows.

We sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities.  Our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets.  Our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors.  A significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.









The loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects.

Our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers.  The loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects.

A cyber security incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers.



