Item 1A: Risk Factors

Our businesses operate in highly competitive and dynamic industries, and our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not compete effectively.

All of our businesses operate in intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services and entertainment, news and information content to consumers. OTT service providers continue to proliferate, complicating the competitive landscape by influencing consumer behavior and challenging existing business models, which is discussed in more detail in the risk factor immediately below.

For example:

•Competition for Cable Communications’ video, high-speed internet and voice services consists primarily of phone companies with fiber-based networks and DBS providers that typically offer features, pricing and packaging for services comparable to ours. Sky faces competition for its video, high-speed internet and voice services from cable and telecommunications providers in its European markets, many of which offer customers bundled services, which has increased competition. Increasingly, additional companies, some with significant financial resources or fewer regulatory burdens, have entered, or are seeking to enter, the video distribution market by offering OTT streaming services or selling devices that aggregate viewing of various OTT services. Many OTT service providers offer smaller packages of channels or subscriptions to access programming at price points lower than our standard packages or for free, which adversely affects demand for Cable Communications’ and Sky’s traditional DTH video services, including for expanded video packages, premium networks, and DVR and On Demand services.

•Cable Communications’ and Sky’s high-speed internet services compete primarily against phone companies with fiber-based networks offering speeds and pricing comparable to ours. Wireless internet services, such as 4G and 5G wireless broadband services, satellite-delivered internet services and Wi-Fi networks, and devices such as smartphones, tablets,wireless data cards, and mobile and fixed wireless routers that connect to such services, also may compete with our high-speed internet services, particularly as wireless technology evolves. Some municipalities in the United States own and operate their own broadband networks and additional municipalities may do so in the future.

•NBCUniversal and Sky face substantial and increasing competition from providers of similar types of content, as well as from other forms of entertainment and recreational activities.

•NBCUniversal and Sky must compete to obtain talent, content and other resources required to operate their businesses. This competition has intensified as OTT service providers seek to develop high-quality programming to attract viewers.

For a more detailed description of the competition facing our businesses, see Item 1: Business and refer to the “Competition” discussion within that section.

Consolidation of, or cooperation between, our competitors, including suppliers and distributors of content, may increase competition in all of these areas. For example, consolidation or cooperation between phone companies (which are also wireless distributors) and content providers may allow competitors to offer free or lower cost streaming services, potentially on an exclusive basis, through unlimited data-usage plans for internet or wireless phone services.

The ability of our businesses to compete effectively also depends on our perceived image and reputation among our various constituencies, including our customers, consumers, advertisers, employees, investors and government authorities. Our ability to compete will be negatively affected if we do not provide our customers with a satisfactory customer experience.

While we continue to seek ways to enhance the value of our businesses, such as by growing high-speed internet services and business services and by investing in new theme parks and Peacock, there can be no assurance that we can execute on these and other initiatives in a manner sufficient to grow or maintain our revenue or operating margins or to compete successfully in the future. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against existing or new competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect on our businesses.

Changes in consumer behavior driven by online video distribution platforms for viewing content continue to adversely affect our businesses and challenge existing business models.

Distribution platforms for viewing and purchasing content over the internet have been, and will likely continue to be, developed that further increase the number of competitors that all our businesses face and challenge existing business models. These distribution platforms have driven, and will continue to drive, changes in consumer behavior as consumers seek more control over when, where and how they consume content and access communications services, and how much they pay for such content.



20Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K






Consumers are increasingly turning to online sources for viewing and purchasing content, which is reducing the number of Cable Communications’ video customers and subscribers to NBCUniversal’s cable networks even as it makes Cable Communications’ high-speed internet services more important to consumers. These changing consumer behaviors also are occurring in Europe, as more of Sky’s new video customers have recently subscribed, and may continue to subscribe, to Sky’s OTT video service instead of its traditional DTH video service. Although we have attempted to adapt our video service offerings and enhance our high-speed internet services for changing consumer behaviors, for example, by deploying the X1 and Sky Q platforms and Flex, which can more easily aggregate linear and OTT programming choices for our customers, the continuing trend of OTT service providers delivering their content directly to consumers over the internet rather than through, or in addition to, traditional video distribution services continues to disrupt traditional video distribution business models.

The increase in OTT service providers also has significantly increased the number of entertainment choices available to consumers, which has intensified audience fragmentation and disaggregated the way that content traditionally has been distributed and viewed by consumers. Time-shifting technologies, such as DVR and on demand services, also reduce the viewing of content through traditional and virtual multichannel video providers, which has caused and likely will continue to cause audience ratings declines for our programming channels. Reduced ratings may adversely affect the price and amount of advertising that advertisers are willing to purchase from us and the amount that we receive for distribution of our content. In addition, as more programming providers offer their content directly to consumers, they may reduce the quantity and quality of the programming they license to NBCUniversal or Sky’s programming channels.

Our failure to effectively anticipate or adapt to emerging competitors or changes in consumer behavior, including among younger consumers, and shifting business models could have an adverse effect on our competitive position, businesses and results of operations.

A decline in advertisers’ expenditures or changes in advertising markets could negatively impact our businesses.

Our businesses depend on keeping pace with technological developments.



Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K21






We are subject to regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities, which impose additional costs and restrictions on our businesses.

In the United States, federal, state and local governments extensively regulate the high-speed internet, video and voice services industries. Our broadcast television business is also highly regulated by U.S. laws and regulations. NBCUniversal’s other businesses are also subject to various other laws and regulations at the international, federal, state and local levels. Sky’s business is subject to various telecommunications and media-specific regulations where it operates. The FCC, FTC and certain state attorneys general and foreign governmental authorities also have been active in conducting inquiriesand reviews regarding our services, and this trend likely will continue. In addition, regulators and the courts could adopt new interpretations of existing competition laws as new competition law theories emerge. Failure to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could result in administrative enforcement actions, fines, and civil and criminal liability.

Programming expenses for our video services are increasing, which could adversely affect Cable Communications’ and Sky’s video businesses.

We expect programming expenses for our video services to continue to be the largest single expense item for our Cable Communications and Sky segments and to increase for the foreseeable future. Our programming expenses may also increase as we add programming to our video services or distribute existing programming to more of our customers or through additional delivery platforms, such as on demand or streaming services. Additionally, Cable Communications pays certain local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of broadcast network programming to video services customers; we expect to continue to be subject to increasing demands for payment and other concessions from local broadcast television stations. These market factors may be exacerbated by increased consolidation in the media industry, which may further increase our programming expenses. If we are unable to raise our customers’ rates or offset programming cost increases through the sale of additional services or cost management initiatives, the increasing cost of programming could have an adverse effect on our Cable Communications and Sky segments’ results of operations.

Moreover, as our contracts with content providers expire, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed on acceptable terms, if renewed at all, in which case we may be unable to provide such content as part of Cable Communications’ or Sky’s video services, and our businesses and results of operations could be adversely affected.

NBCUniversal’s and Sky’s success depends on consumer acceptance of their content, and their businesses may be adversely affected if their content fails to achieve sufficient consumer acceptance or the costs to create or acquire content increase.

NBCUniversal and Sky create and acquire media and entertainment content, the success of which depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of these businesses depends on our ability to consistently create, acquire, market and distribute television programming, filmed entertainment, theme park attractions and other content that meet the changing preferences of the broad domestic and international consumer markets. We have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial amounts in our content, including in the production of original content at NBCUniversal and Sky, in our films and for new theme parks and theme park attractions, before learning the extent to which they will earn consumer acceptance. We also are incurring significant costs to develop Peacock, and there can be no assurance that consumers and advertisers will embrace this offering.

NBCUniversal and Sky also obtain a significant portion of their content from third parties, such as movie studios, television production companies, sports organizations and other suppliers, sometimes on an exclusive basis. Competition for popular content, particularly for sports programming, is intense, and we may have to increase the price we are willing to pay or be outbid by our competitors for popular content. We also may be unable to license popular third-party content for NBCUniversal’s and Sky’s



22Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K






programming channels if media companies launch successful OTT services for their owned content such that they forgo license fees from us and only provide their content directly to consumers.

Entering into or renewing contracts for such programming rights or acquiring additional rights may result in significantly increased costs. Particularly with respect to long-term contracts for sports programming rights for NBCUniversal and Sky, our results of operations and cash flows over the term of a contract depend on a number of factors, including the strength of the advertising market, audience size, the timing and amount of rights payments, and the ability of NBCUniversal to secure distribution from, impose surcharges on, or obtain carriage on multichannel video providers. There can be no assurance that revenue from these contracts will exceed our costs for the rights, as well as the other costs of producing and distributing the programming. If our content does not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, or if we cannot obtain or retain rights to popular content on acceptable terms, or at all, NBCUniversal’s and Sky’s businesses may be adversely affected.

The loss of programming distribution and licensing agreements, or the renewal of these agreements on less favorable terms, could adversely affect our businesses.

NBCUniversal’s cable networks depend on their ability to secure and maintain distribution agreements with traditional and virtual multichannel video providers. The number of subscribers to NBCUniversal’s cable networks has been, and likely will continue to be, reduced as a result of fewer subscribers to multichannel video providers. Sky also depends on its ability to secure and maintain wholesale distribution agreements for its television channels with multichannel video providers.

Increasingly, NBCUniversal and Sky are entering into agreements to license their prior season and library content on other distribution platforms, including OTT services. If this programming does not attract sufficient viewers, traditional and virtual multichannel video providers may not distribute NBCUniversal’s or Sky’s programming, and OTT services may not license programming NBCUniversal or Sky creates. In addition, we expect not to license certain popular content, and we may decide not to license additional popular content that we own, to third parties so we may offer it exclusively through Peacock, which would result in foregone licensing revenue.

NBCUniversal’s broadcast television networks depend on their ability to secure and maintain network affiliation agreements with third-party local broadcast television stations in the markets where it does not own the affiliated local broadcast television station. In addition, every three years, each of its owned local broadcast television stations must elect, with respect to its retransmission by multichannel video providers within its DMA, either “must-carry” status, in which the distributor’s carriage of the station is mandatory and does not generate any compensation for the local station, or “retransmission consent,” in which the station gives up its right to mandatory carriage and instead seeks to negotiate the terms and conditions of carriage with the distributor, including the amount of compensation, if any, paid to the station by such distributor. For the current three-year period, which commenced on January 1, 2018, all of our owned NBC broadcast television stations and our owned Telemundo broadcast television stations elected retransmission consent. However, certain illegal online entities may stream our broadcast television content online without our consent and without paying any compensation to us.

There can be no assurance that any of these agreements will be entered into or renewed in the future on acceptable terms. The inability to enter into or renew these agreements could reduce our revenues and the reach of our programming, which could adversely affect NBCUniversal’s and Sky’s businesses.

Less favorable telecommunications access regulations, the loss of Sky’s transmission agreements with satellite or telecommunications providers or the renewal of these agreements on less favorable terms could adversely affect Sky’s businesses.

Sky relies on various third-party telecommunications providers to deliver its video, high-speed internet, voice and wireless phone services to its customers. For example, Sky relies on satellites leased from third parties to provide most of its video services. In addition, pursuant to the current regulatory regimes in the U.K. and Italy, Sky is able to access networks owned by third-party telecommunications providers to offer its high-speed internet and phone services, in most cases, on regulated terms, including price. If there is a change in regulation in the U.K, Italy or other markets where Sky accesses networks owned by third-party telecommunications providers, the regulated terms could become less favorable. Moreover, while Sky is able to receive wholesale fiber access on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms, pricing terms are not regulated. As a result, if Sky is unable to enter into or renew its transmission agreements with satellite or telecommunications operators on commercially reasonable terms or if these operators were to terminate their agreements, Sky may be unable to deliver some of its services to customers in one or more of the countries in which it operates, which would adversely affect Sky’s businesses and results of operations.

We rely on network and information systems and other technologies, as well as key properties, and a disruption, cyber attack, failure or destruction of such networks, systems, technologies or properties may disrupt our businesses.

Network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to our network management, customer service operations, and programming delivery, and technology embedded in our products and services, are critical to our business activities.



Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K23






In addition, we obtain certain confidential, proprietary and personal information about our customers, personnel and vendors, and in some cases provide this information to third parties, in connection with our business. While we generally obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information, there is a risk that this information may be compromised. Any security breaches, such as misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of information maintained in our third-party’s information technology systems, including customer, personnel and vendor data, could damage our reputation and require us to expend significant capital and other resources to remedy any such security breach, could lead to litigation or could cause regulators to impose fines or other remedies for failure to comply with relevant customer privacy rules.

Our businesses depend on using and protecting certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others.

We rely on our intellectual property, such as patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other third parties, to use various technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and claims of intellectual property infringement by third parties could require that we enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability, or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question, from importing into the United States or other jurisdictions in which we operate hardware that uses such intellectual property or from the continuation of our businesses as currently conducted. We may need to change our business practices if any of these events occur, which may limit our ability to compete effectively and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Even if we believe any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources away from our businesses. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain or continue to obtain licenses from our vendors and other third parties on reasonable terms, our businesses could be adversely affected.

In addition, intellectual property constitutes a significant part of the value of NBCUniversal’s and Sky’s businesses, and their success is highly dependent on protecting the intellectual property rights of the content they create or acquire against third-party misappropriation, reproduction or infringement. The unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of copyrighted material negatively affects our ability to generate revenue from the legitimate sale of our content, as well as from the sale of advertising in connection with our content, and increases our costs due to our active enforcement of our intellectual property rights.

Piracy and other unauthorized uses of content are made easier, and the enforcement of intellectual property rights more challenging, by technological advances that allow the conversion of programming, films and other content into digital formats, which facilitates



24Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K






the creation, transmission and sharing of high-quality unauthorized copies. In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution platforms continues to present challenges for NBCUniversal’s cable networks, broadcast television and filmed entertainment businesses. It also presents similar challenges for Sky’s businesses, including as a result of illegal retransmission of sports events. While piracy is a challenge in the United States, it is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack developed copyright laws, effective enforcement of copyright laws and technical protective measures like those in effect in the United States. If any U.S. or international laws intended to combat piracy and protect intellectual property rights are repealed or weakened or are not adequately enforced, or if the legal system fails to adapt to new technologies that facilitate piracy, we may be unable to effectively protect our rights, the value of our intellectual property may be negatively impacted and our costs of enforcing our rights may increase.

We may be unable to obtain necessary hardware, software and operational support.

We depend on third-party vendors to supply us with a significant amount of the hardware, software and operational support necessary to provide certain of our products and services. Some of these vendors represent our primary source of supply or grant us the right to incorporate their intellectual property into some of our hardware and software products. While we actively monitor the operations and financial condition of key vendors in an attempt to detect any potential difficulties, there can be no assurance that we would timely identify any operating or financial difficulties associated with these vendors or that we could effectively mitigate our risks with respect to any such difficulties. If any of these vendors experience operating or financial difficulties, if our demand exceeds their capacity or if they breach or terminate their agreements with us or are otherwise unable to meet our specifications or provide the equipment, products or services we need in a timely manner (or at all), or at reasonable prices, our ability to provide some products or services may be adversely affected and we may incur additional costs.

Weak economic conditions may have a negative impact on our businesses.

A substantial portion of our revenue comes from customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. Weak economic conditions in the United States or globally could adversely affect demand for any of our products and services and have a negative impact on our results of operations. For example, customers may reduce the level of services to which they subscribe, or may discontinue subscribing to one or more of Cable Communications’ or Sky’s services. This risk may be increased by the expanded availability of free or lower cost competitive services, such as OTT video services, or substitute services for high-speed internet and voice services, such as mobile phones and Wi-Fi networks. Weak economic conditions also negatively impact our advertising revenue, the performance of our films and home entertainment releases, and attendance and spending in our theme parks.

Weak economic conditions and disruption in the global financial markets may also have an impact on the ability of third parties to satisfy their obligations to us or increase our exposure to currency fluctuations in countries where we operate. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of Sky, we incurred and assumed a significant amount of additional debt. If our businesses are negatively impacted by weak economic conditions, we may not be able to reduce the amount of our debt outstanding as quickly as expected. Further, a significant increase in interest rates or disruption in the global financial markets may affect our ability to obtain financing or to refinance existing debt on acceptable terms, if at all, and could increase the cost of our borrowings.

Acquisitions and other strategic initiatives present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that we had contemplated.

From time to time, we make acquisitions and investments and may pursue other strategic initiatives, including our 2018 acquisition of Sky and the development of Peacock and new theme parks. In connection with such acquisitions and strategic initiatives, we may incur significant or unanticipated expenses, fail to realize anticipated benefits and synergies, have difficulty incorporating an acquired or new line of business, disrupt relationships with current and new employees, customers and vendors, incur significant debt, or have to delay or not proceed with announced transactions or initiatives. Additionally, federal regulatory agencies such as the FCC or DOJ or international regulators may impose restrictions on the operation of our businesses as a result of our seeking regulatory approvals for any significant acquisitions and strategic initiatives or may dissuade us from pursing certain transactions. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We face risks relating to doing business internationally that could adversely affect our businesses.

We operate our businesses worldwide. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including global financial market turmoil; economic volatility and global economic slowdown; currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures; the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the publication and distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising; import or export restrictions, tariffs and trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing and managing foreign operations; issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse local labor laws and regulations; and potentially adverse tax developments. Although we employ foreign currency derivative instruments to hedge certain exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risks, including the British pound and Euro, the use of such derivative instruments may not be sufficient to mitigate exchange



Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K25






rate fluctuations. Sky’s businesses in particular are also subject to risks relating to uncertainties and effects of the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU (referred to as “Brexit”), including financial, legal, tax and trade implications. In addition, doing business internationally subjects us to risks relating to political or social unrest, as well as corruption and government regulation, including U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations. If any of these events occur or our conduct does not comply with such laws and regulations, our businesses may be adversely affected.

Unfavorable litigation or governmental investigation results could require us to pay significant amounts or lead to onerous operating procedures.

We are subject from time to time to a number of lawsuits both in the United States and in foreign countries, including claims relating to competition, intellectual property rights (including patents), employment and labor matters, personal injury and property damage, customer privacy, regulatory requirements, advertising, marketing and selling practices, and credit and collection issues. Greater constraints on the use of arbitration to resolve certain of these disputes could adversely affect our business. We also spend substantial resources complying with various regulatory and government standards, including any related investigations and litigation. We may incur significant expenses defending any such suit or government charge and may be required to pay amounts or otherwise change our operations in ways that could adversely impact our businesses, results of operations or financial condition.

Labor disputes, whether involving employees or sports organizations, may disrupt our operations and adversely affect our businesses.

Many of NBCUniversal’s employees, including writers, directors, actors, technical and production personnel and others, as well as some of our on-air and creative talent employees, are covered by collective bargaining agreements or works councils. Most of NBCUniversal’s collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. If we are unable to reach agreement with a labor union before the expiration of a collective bargaining agreement, our employees who were covered by that agreement may have a right to strike or take other actions that could adversely affect us, which could disrupt our operations and reduce our revenue, and the resolution of any disputes may increase our costs. There can be no assurance that we will renew our collective bargaining agreements as they expire or that we can renew them on favorable terms or without any work stoppages.

In addition, our cable networks and broadcast television networks have programming rights agreements of varying scope and duration with various sports organizations to broadcast and produce sporting events, including certain NFL, NHL, NBA and MLB games. Labor disputes in these and other sports organizations could have an adverse effect on our businesses.

The loss of key management personnel or popular on-air and creative talent could have an adverse effect on our businesses.

We rely on certain key management personnel in the operation of our businesses. While we maintain long-term and emergency transition plans for key management personnel and believe we could either identify internal candidates or attract outside candidates to fill any vacancy created by the loss of any key management personnel, the loss of one or more of our key management personnel could have a negative impact on our businesses.

In addition, NBCUniversal and Sky depend on the abilities and expertise of on-air and creative talent. If we fail to attract or retain on-air or creative talent, if the costs to attract or retain such talent increase materially, if we need to make significant termination payments, or if these individuals cause negative publicity or lose their current appeal, our businesses could be adversely affected.

Our Class B common stock has substantial voting rights and separate approval rights over several potentially material transactions, and our Chairman and CEO has considerable influence over our company through his beneficial ownership of our Class B common stock.

Our Class B common stock has a non-dilutable 33


/




26Comcast 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K






has considerable influence over our company and the potential ability to transfer effective control by selling the Class B common stock, which could be at a premium.



