Item 1A.Risk Factors.

You
should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well
as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock.

Economic downturns and disruptions in financial
markets can adversely affect our business and results of operations.

Our results of operations can be materially
affected by adverse conditions in the financial markets and depressed economic conditions generally. Economic downturns in the businesses and geographic areas in which we sell our products substantially reduce demand for our products and result in
decreased sales volumes. Recessionary environments adversely affect our business because demand for our products is reduced, particularly from our customers in industrial markets generally and the automotive and housing industries specifically.

Deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe and the related euro crisis could have a material adverse effect on
our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.

The recent escalation of the European
sovereign debt crisis has negatively impacted the capital markets in Europe and caused the value of the euro to deteriorate. These conditions have resulted in reduced consumer confidence and spending in many countries in Europe, particularly
southern Europe. A significant portion of our revenues and earnings are derived from our business in Europe, including southern Europe. In addition, most of our European transactions and assets, including cash reserves and receivables, are
denominated in euros.

If the European sovereign debt crisis continues or further deteriorates, there will likely be a
continued negative effect on our European business, as well as the businesses of our European customers, suppliers and partners. In addition, if the crisis ultimately leads to a significant devaluation of the euro, the value of our financial assets
that are denominated in euros would be significantly reduced when translated to U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and
cash flows.







The cyclicality and volatility of the industries in which we participate may cause
significant fluctuations in our operating results.

Our business operations are subject to the cyclical and volatile
nature of the supply-demand balance in the chemical and refining industries. Our future operating results are expected to continue to be affected by this cyclicality and volatility. The chemical and refining industries historically have experienced
alternating periods of capacity shortages, causing prices and profit margins to increase, followed by periods of excess capacity, resulting in oversupply, declining capacity utilization rates and declining prices and profit margins.

In addition to changes in the supply and demand for products, changes in energy prices and other worldwide economic conditions can cause
volatility. These factors result in significant fluctuations in profits and cash flow from period to period and over business cycles.

In addition, new capacity additions in Asia, the Middle East and North America may lead to periods of oversupply and lower profitability. The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing
market conditions is uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. As a consequence, we are unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of future industry cycles or their effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations. We can give no assurances as to any predictions we may make with respect to the timing, extent or duration of future industry cycles.

Costs and limitations on supply of raw materials and energy may result in increased operating expenses.

The costs of raw materials and energy represent a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Energy costs generally follow price trends of crude oil and natural gas. These price trends may be highly
volatile and cyclical. In the past, raw material and energy costs have experienced significant fluctuations that adversely affected our business segments’ results of operations. For example, we continue to benefit from the favorable ratio of
U.S. natural gas prices to crude oil prices. However, if the price of crude oil decreases relative to U.S. natural gas prices, this may have a negative result on our results of operations. Moreover, fluctuations in currency exchange rates can add to
this volatility.

We are not always able to pass raw material and energy cost increases on to our customers. When we do have
the ability to pass on the cost increases, we are not always able to do so quickly enough to avoid adverse impacts on our results of operations.

Cost increases for raw materials also may increase working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flow. Even if we increase our sales prices to reflect rising raw material and energy
costs, demand for products may decrease as customers reduce their consumption or use substitute products, which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. In addition, producers in natural gas cost-advantaged regions, such as the
Middle East and North America, benefit from the lower prices of natural gas and NGLs. Competition from producers in these regions may cause us to reduce exports from Europe and elsewhere. Any such reductions may increase competition for product
sales within Europe and other markets, which can result in lower margins in those regions. Additionally, there are a limited number of suppliers for some of our raw materials and utilities and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the
particular geographic region in which a facility is located.

It is also common in the chemical and refining industries for a
facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity and gas. Having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. Any new supply
agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements.

If our raw
material or utility supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on plant operations. For example, hurricanes have in the
past negatively affected crude oil and natural gas supplies, as well as supplies of other raw materials, utilities (such as electricity and steam), and industrial gases, contributing to increases in operating costs and, in some cases, disrupting
production and causing lost profit opportunities. In addition, hurricane-related disruption of vessel, barge, rail, truck and pipeline traffic in the U.S. Gulf Coast area would negatively affect shipments of raw materials and product.







With increased volatility in raw material costs, our suppliers could impose more onerous
terms on us, resulting in shorter payment cycles and increasing our working capital requirements.

We sell products in
highly competitive global markets and face significant price pressures.

We sell our products in highly competitive
global markets. Due to the commodity nature of many of our products, competition in these markets is based primarily on price and, to a lesser extent, on product performance, product quality, product deliverability, reliability of supply and
customer service. Generally, we are not able to protect our market position for these products by product differentiation and may not be able to pass on cost increases to our customers.

In addition, we face increased competition from companies that may have greater financial resources and different cost structures or
strategic goals than us. These include large integrated oil companies (some of which also have chemical businesses), government-owned businesses, and companies that receive subsidies or other government incentives to produce certain products in a
specified geographic region. Increased competition from these companies, especially in our olefin and refining businesses, could limit our ability to increase product sales prices in response to raw material and other cost increases, or could cause
us to reduce product sales prices to compete effectively, which could reduce our profitability. Competitors that have greater financial resources than us may be able to invest significant capital into their businesses, including expenditures for
research and development.

In addition, specialty products we produce may become commoditized over time. Increased competition
could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations.

Our ability to source raw materials, including crude oil, may be adversely affected by political instability, civil disturbances or
other governmental actions.

We obtain a substantial portion of our principal raw materials from sources in North
Africa, the Middle East, and South America that may be less politically stable than other areas in which we conduct business, such as Europe or the U.S. Political instability, civil disturbances and actions by governments in these areas are likely
to substantially increase the price and decrease the supply of feedstocks necessary for our operations, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

Recently, increased incidents of civil unrest, including demonstrations which have been marked by violence, have occurred in some countries in North Africa and the Middle East. Some political regimes in
these countries are threatened or have changed as a result of such unrest. Political instability and civil unrest could continue to spread in the region and involve other areas. Such unrest, if it continues to spread or grow in intensity, could lead
to civil wars, regional conflict, or regime changes resulting in governments that are hostile to countries in which we conduct substantial business, such as Europe, the U.S., or their respective allies.

Interruptions of operations at our facilities may result in liabilities or lower operating results.

We own and operate large-scale facilities. Our operating results are dependent on the continued operation of our various production
facilities and the ability to complete construction and maintenance projects on schedule. Interruptions at our facilities may materially reduce the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or our business as a whole,
during and after the period of such operational difficulties. In the past, we had to shut down plants on the U.S. Gulf Coast, including the temporary shutdown of our Houston refinery, as a result of hurricanes striking the Texas coast.

In addition, because the Houston refinery is our only North American refining operation, an outage at the refinery could have a
particularly negative impact on our operating results. Unlike our chemical and polymer production facilities, which may have sufficient excess capacity to mitigate the negative impact of lost production at other facilities, we do not have the
ability to increase refining production elsewhere in the U.S.







Although we take precautions to enhance the safety of our operations and minimize the risk
of disruptions, our operations are subject to hazards inherent in chemical manufacturing and refining and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These potential hazards include:



•pipeline leaks and ruptures;



•explosions;



•fires;



•severe weather and natural disasters;



•mechanical failure;



•unscheduled downtimes;



•supplier disruptions;



•labor shortages or other labor difficulties;



•transportation interruptions;



•transportation accidents;



•remediation complications;



•chemical and oil spills;



•discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases;



•storage tank leaks;



•other environmental risks; and



•terrorist acts.

Some of these hazards may cause severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and may result in suspension of operations or the shutdown of affected facilities.

Our operations are subject to risks inherent in chemical and refining businesses, and we could be subject to liabilities for which
we are not fully insured or that are not otherwise mitigated.

We maintain property, business interruption, product,
general liability, casualty and other types of insurance, including pollution and legal liability, that we believe are in accordance with customary industry practices. However, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards incident to our
business, including losses resulting from natural disasters, war risks or terrorist acts. Changes in insurance market conditions have caused, and may in the future cause, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies to increase
substantially and, in some instances, for certain insurance to become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, we might not be able to finance the
amount of the uninsured liability on terms acceptable to us or at all, and might be obligated to divert a significant portion of our cash flow from normal business operations.

Further, because a part of our business involves licensing polyolefin process technology, our licensees are exposed to similar risks involved in the manufacture and marketing of polyolefins. Hazardous
incidents involving our licensees, if they do result or are perceived to result from use of our technologies, may harm our reputation,







threaten our relationships with other licensees and/or lead to customer attrition and financial losses. Our policy of covering these risks through contractual limitations of liability and
indemnities and through insurance may not always be effective. As a result, our financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected, and other companies with competing technologies may have the opportunity to secure a
competitive advantage.

Certain activities related to a former project raise compliance issues under U.S. law.

We have identified an agreement related to a former project in Kazakhstan under which a payment was made that raises
compliance concerns under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). We have engaged outside counsel to investigate these activities, under the oversight of the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board, and to evaluate internal
controls and compliance policies and procedures. We made a voluntary disclosure of these matters to the U.S. Department of Justice and are cooperating fully with that agency. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these matters at this time since
our investigations are ongoing. In this respect, we may not have conducted business in compliance with the FCPA and may not have had policies and procedures in place adequate to ensure compliance. Therefore, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of
liability for any potential penalty resulting from these matters. Violations of these laws could result in criminal and civil liabilities and other forms of penalties or sanctions that could be material to us.

Our operations could be adversely affected by labor relations.

The vast majority of our employees located in Europe and South America are represented by labor unions and works councils. Approximately
900 of our employees located in North America are represented by labor unions. Of the represented North American employees, approximately 50% include our employees that are subject to a collective bargaining agreement between Houston Refining LP and
the United Steelworkers Union, which agreement will expire on January 31, 2015.

Our operations have been in the past,
and may be in the future, significantly and adversely affected by strikes, work stoppages and other labor disputes.

We
cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety and other laws and regulations, and cannot guarantee they will not be material.

We may face liability arising out of the normal course of business, including alleged personal injury or property damage due to exposure
to chemicals or other hazardous substances at our current or former facilities or chemicals that we manufacture, handle or own. In addition, because our products are components of a variety of other end-use products, we, along with other members of
the chemical industry, are subject to potential claims related to those end-use products. Any substantial increase in the success of these types of claims could negatively affect our operating results.

We (together with the industries in which we operate) are subject to extensive national, regional, state and local environmental laws,
regulations, directives, rules and ordinances concerning



•emissions to the air;



•discharges onto land or surface waters or into groundwater; and



•the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials.

Many of these laws and regulations provide for substantial fines and potential criminal sanctions for
violations. Some of these laws and regulations are subject to varying and conflicting interpretations. In addition, some of these laws and regulations require us to meet specific financial responsibility requirements. Any substantial liability for
environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.







Although we have compliance programs and other processes intended to ensure compliance with
all such regulations, we are subject to the risk that our compliance with such regulations could be challenged. Non-compliance with certain of these regulations could result in the incurrence of additional costs, penalties or assessments that could
be material.

Our industry is subject to extensive regulation. Existing or future regulations may restrict our
operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures and failure to comply with regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses or affect our ability to operate.

We are subject to extensive government regulation in the form of national, state and local laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations govern all aspects of the operation of our facilities and the transportation and sales of our products. We generally expect that regulatory controls worldwide will become increasingly more demanding and expensive, but cannot accurately
predict future developments.

In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain
permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. These permits and licenses are subject to renewal, modification and in some circumstances, revocation. Further, the permits and licenses are often difficult, time consuming and
costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations.

Our failure to comply with regulatory requirements
or obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses and authorizations for the conduct of our business could result in fines or penalties, which may be significant. Additionally, any such failure could restrict or otherwise prohibit certain aspects of
our operations, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

We may incur substantial costs to comply with
climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives.

There has been a broad range of proposed or promulgated state,
national and international laws focusing on greenhouse gas (“GHG”) reduction. These proposed or promulgated laws apply or could apply in countries where we have interests or may have interests in the future. Laws in this field continue to
evolve and, while they are likely to be increasingly widespread and stringent, at this stage it is not possible to accurately estimate either a timetable for implementation or our future compliance costs relating to implementation. Within the
framework of EU emissions trading, we were allocated certain allowances of carbon dioxide per year for the affected plants of our European sites for the 2005 to 2007 period. For the second trading period (2008 to 2012), a number of our plants are
included in the Europe-wide trading system. We expect to incur additional costs as a result of the existing emissions trading scheme and could incur additional costs in relation to any future carbon or other greenhouse gas emission trading schemes.
The costs could be higher to the extent that we decide to sell credits that we need in the future.

In the U.S., the
Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) has promulgated federal GHG regulations under the Clean Air Act affecting certain sources. The EPA has issued mandatory GHG reporting requirements which could lead to further obligations. The
recent EPA action could be a precursor to further federal regulation of carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases, and may affect the outcome of other climate change lawsuits pending in U.S. federal courts in a manner unfavorable to our
industry. In any event, additional regulation is likely to be forthcoming at the U.S. federal level or the state level with respect to GHG emissions, and such regulation could result in the creation of additional costs in the form of taxes or
required acquisition or trading of emission allowances.

Compliance with these or other changes in laws, regulations and
obligations that create a GHG emissions trading scheme or GHG reduction policies generally could significantly increase our costs or reduce demand for products we produce. Depending on the nature of potential regulations and legislation, any future
laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions or delays in implementing growth projects or other capital investments, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
operations.







The company’s business, including its results of operations and reputation, could
be adversely affected by process safety issues.

Failure to appropriately manage safety, human health, product
liability and environmental risks associated with the company’s products, product life cycles and production processes could adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, the company’s reputation and its results of operations.
Public perception of the risks associated with the company’s products and production processes could impact product acceptance and influence the regulatory environment in which the company operates. While the company has procedures and controls
to manage process safety risks, issues could be created by events outside of its control including natural disasters, severe weather events and acts of sabotage.

Legislation and regulatory initiatives could lead to a decrease in demand for our products.

New or revised governmental regulations and independent studies relating to the effect of our products on health, safety and the environment may affect demand for our products and the cost of producing
our products. Initiatives by governments and private interest groups will potentially require increased toxicological testing and risk assessments of a wide variety of chemicals, including chemicals used or produced by us. For example, in the United
States, the National Toxicology Program (“NTP”) is a federal interagency program that seeks to identify and select for study chemicals and other substances to evaluate potential human health hazards. In the European Commission, REACh is
regulation designed to identify the intrinsic properties of chemical substances, assess hazards and risks of the substances, and identify and implement the risk management measures to protect humans and the environment.

Assessments by the NTP, REACh or similar programs or regulations in other jurisdictions may result in heightened concerns about the
chemicals we use or produce and may result in additional requirements being placed on the production, handling, labeling or use of those chemicals. Such concerns and additional requirements could also increase the cost incurred by our customers to
use our chemical products and otherwise limit the use of these products, which could lead to a decrease in demand for these products. Such a decrease in demand could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations.

We operate internationally and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations, exchange controls, political risks and other risks
relating to international operations.

We operate internationally and are subject to the risks of doing business on a
global level, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, war, terrorist activities, epidemics, pandemics, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, the
imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and current and changing regulatory environments. Recent demonstrations and popular unrest in portions of the Middle East are examples of
these events.

These events could reduce the demand for our products, decrease the prices at which we can sell our products,
disrupt production or other operations, require substantial capital and other costs to comply, and/or increase security costs or insurance premiums, all of which could reduce our operating results. In addition, we obtain a substantial portion of our
principal raw materials from international sources that are subject to these same risks. Our compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be
subject could be challenged. Furthermore, these laws may be modified, the result of which may be to prevent or limit subsidiaries from transferring cash to us.

Furthermore, we are subject to certain existing, and may be subject to possible future, laws that limit or may limit our activities while some of our competitors may not be subject to such laws, which may
adversely affect our competitiveness.

In addition, we generate revenues from export sales and operations that may be
denominated in currencies other than the relevant functional currency. Exchange rates between these currencies and functional currencies in recent years have fluctuated significantly and may do so in the future. Future events, which may
significantly increase or







decrease the risk of future movement in currencies in which we conduct our business, cannot be predicted. We also may hedge certain revenues and costs using derivative instruments to minimize the
impact of changes in the exchange rates of those currencies compared to the respective functional currencies. It is possible that fluctuations in exchange rates will result in reduced operating results.

U.S. anti-inversion rules may apply to LyondellBasell Industries N.V. resulting in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences.

The U.S. Internal Revenue Service is examining the Company’s federal income tax returns. As part of that review,
the IRS is examining whether under Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code LyondellBasell Industries N.V. should be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS also is examining whether Section 7874
alternatively applies to certain of the Company’s intercompany transactions that would result in additional U.S. federal income tax of the Company’s U.S. subsidiaries. Application of Section 7874 in either instance is dependent on the
value of our shares issued at emergence from bankruptcy to former creditors of our top U.S. holding company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries in exchange for their claims against those entities. It further would require a determination that
the Company is not conducting substantial business activities in The Netherlands.

Treatment of LyondellBasell Industries N.V.
as a U.S. corporation would result in significantly increased tax liability because our worldwide income would be subject to U.S. federal income tax. Any such increase likely would have a material adverse effect on our earnings and cashflow.
Application of Section 7874 to our intercompany transactions would, for the 10-year period post emergence, result in the imposition of additional U.S. federal income tax on certain gains of our U.S. subsidiaries from those transactions. The
increased taxation of those gains would negatively affect our earnings and cash flows.

No assurance can be given that the IRS
will not determine that Section 7874 is applicable to us. Further, there can be no assurances that any such position taken by the IRS would not be sustained.

Significant changes in pension fund investment performance or assumptions relating to pension costs may adversely affect the valuation of pension obligations, the funded status of pension plans, and
our pension cost.

Our pension cost is materially affected by the discount rate used to measure pension obligations,
the level of plan assets available to fund those obligations at the measurement date and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. Significant changes in investment performance or a change in the portfolio mix of invested assets may
result in corresponding increases and decreases in the valuation of plan assets, particularly equity securities, or in a change of the expected rate of return on plan assets. Any change in key actuarial assumptions, such as the discount rate, would
impact the valuation of pension obligations, affecting the reported funded status of our pension plans as well as the net periodic pension cost in the following fiscal years.

Certain of our current pension plans have projected benefit obligations that exceed the fair value of the plan assets. As of December 31, 2011, the aggregate deficit was $1,079 million. Any
declines in the fair values of the pension plans assets could require additional payments by us in order to maintain specified funding levels.

Our pension plans are subject to legislative and regulatory requirements of applicable jurisdictions, which could include, under certain circumstances, local governmental authority to terminate the plan.

We may be required to record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause
impairments to our assets.

We may be required to reduce production at or idle facilities for extended periods of time
or exit certain businesses as a result of the cyclical nature of our industry. Specifically, oversupplies of or lack of demand for particular products or high raw material prices may cause us to reduce production. We may choose to reduce production
at certain facilities because we have off-take arrangements at other facilities, which make any reductions or idling unavailable at those facilities. Any decision to permanently close facilities or exit a business likely would result in impairment
and other charges to earnings.

Temporary outages at our facilities can last for several quarters and sometimes longer. These
outages could cause us to incur significant costs, including the expenses of maintaining and restarting these facilities. In addition, even though we may reduce production at facilities, we may be required to continue to purchase or pay for
utilities or raw materials under take-or-pay supply agreements.

Many of our businesses depend on our intellectual
property. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and our inability to do so could reduce our ability to maintain our competitiveness and margins.

We have a significant worldwide patent portfolio of issued and pending patents. These patents, together with proprietary technical
know-how, are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to PO, performance chemicals, petrochemicals, and polymers, including process technologies such asSpheripol,Spherizone,Hostalen,Spherilene,Lupotech TandAvantcatalyst family technology rights. We rely on the patent, copyright and trade secret laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our investment in research and development, manufacturing
and marketing. However, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property without authorization. Proceedings to protect these rights could be costly, and we may not prevail.

The protection afforded by patents varies from country to country and depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage. While a
presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us, our patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. As patents expire, the products and processes described and claimed under those patents become
generally available for use by competitors.







Our continued growth strategy may bring us to regions of the world where intellectual
property protection may be limited and difficult to enforce. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. Moreover, our competitors
or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins or loss of market share.

We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop
and maintain our competitive position. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide
meaningful protection or adequate remedies may not be available. Additionally, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal or illegal means.

The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary
know-how could result in significantly lower revenues, reduced profit margins and cash flows and/or loss of market share. We also may be subject to claims that our technology, patents or other intellectual property infringes on a third party’s
intellectual property rights. Unfavorable resolution of these claims could result in restrictions on our ability to deliver the related service or in a settlement that could be material to us.

We may not be able to fully or successfully implement our ongoing plans to improve and globally integrate our business processes
and functions.

We continue to seek ways to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings. In particular,
we are working towards the improvement and global integration of our business processes and functions. As part of these efforts, we have been centralizing certain functions, implementing new information technology, and integrating our existing
information technology systems.

Our ongoing implementation of organizational improvements is made more difficult by our need
to coordinate geographically dispersed operations. Inabilities and delays in implementing improvements can negatively affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. In addition, the process of organizational improvements may cause
interruptions of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our businesses. It may also result in the loss of personnel or other labor issues. These issues, as well as any information technology systems failures, also could impede our ability to
timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

Additionally, from time to
time certain aspects of our business processes may be outsourced to third parties. The processes, or the portions thereof, that are outsourced generally will tend to be labor intensive transactional activities such as processing invoices for account
payable transactions. Although we make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. The failure of such third parties
to provide adequate services could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity, or our ability to provide adequate financial and management reporting.

Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, facilities and services.

Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and
networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems, and maintenance
of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, facilities and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of
confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and
results of operations.







Shared control or lack of control of joint ventures may delay decisions or actions
regarding the joint ventures.

A portion of our operations are conducted through joint ventures, where control may be
exercised by or shared with unaffiliated third parties. We cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default or bankruptcy of joint venture partners. The joint ventures that we do not control may also
lack adequate internal controls systems or financial reporting systems to provide adequate and timely information for our reporting purposes.

In the event that any of our joint venture partners do not observe their obligations, it is possible that the affected joint venture would not be able to operate in accordance with our business plans. As
a result, we could be required to increase our level of commitment in order to give effect to such plans. Differences in views among the joint venture participants also may result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on major matters,
potentially adversely affecting the business and operations of the joint ventures and in turn our business and operations .

Our capital requirements could limit or cause us to change our growth and development plans.

At December 31, 2011, we have approximately $4.0 billion of total consolidated debt. Our debt and the limitations imposed on us
by our financing arrangements could:



•require us to dedicate a substantial portion, or all, of our cash flow from operations to payments of principal and interest on our debt;



•make us more vulnerable during downturns, which could limit our ability to take advantage of significant business opportunities and react to changes in
our business and in market or industry conditions; and



•put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to competitors that have less debt.

If our cash flow from operations and capital resources were reduced, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital
expenditures or other planned uses of our cash due to our substantial debt service obligations. We could choose to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, but there can be no assurances that we would be
able to do so on terms we deem acceptable, if at all. Additionally, our debt instruments may limit our ability to effect such actions.

Our debt or other financing arrangements contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us. There also is a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio contained in
our U.S. ABL facility that is applicable if availability under the facility falls below certain levels. We currently are in compliance with all of our restrictive and financial covenants; however, the ability to meet financial requirements can be
affected by events beyond our control and, over time, these covenants may not be satisfied.

A breach of covenants of or the
failure to pay principal and interest when due under our debt or other financing could result in a default or cross-default under all or some of those instruments. Any such default could result in an acceleration of all amounts outstanding under all
facilities, and could relieve counterparties of their obligations to fund or otherwise make advances. Without waivers from the parties to our financing arrangements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to
operate.

A substantial portion of our shares are owned by a few persons, and their interests in LyondellBasell
Industries N.V. may conflict with other stakeholders’ interests.

As of February 24, 2012, two of our
shareholders collectively own approximately 44% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Under Dutch law, there are no quorum requirements for shareholder voting and most matters are approved or adopted by a majority of votes cast. As a result, as
long as these shareholders or any other substantial shareholder own, directly or indirectly, a substantial portion of our outstanding shares, they will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including
amendments to our Articles of Association, the election of directors, significant corporate transactions, dividend payments and other matters. These shareholders may have interests that conflict with other stakeholders, including holders of our
notes, and actions may be taken that other stakeholders do not view as beneficial.







Additionally, these shareholders are party to nomination agreements that entitle each of the
shareholders to cause our Supervisory Board to nominate for election members to our Supervisory Board for so long as the shareholder owns specified percentages of our ordinary shares.

Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the identification and development of talent to
succeed senior management.

Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and we rely
heavily on our management team. The inability to recruit and retain key personnel or the unexpected loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operations. In addition, because of the reliance on our management team, our future success depends in
part on our ability to identify and develop talent to succeed senior management. The retention of key personnel and appropriate senior management succession planning will continue to be critically important to the successful implementation of our
strategies.



