ITEM 1. BUSINESS



Overview

We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics, and consumer health products. Our oral, injectable, gene therapy, and respiratory delivery technologies address the full diversity of the pharmaceutical industry, including small molecules, protein and gene therapy biologics, and consumer health products. Through our extensive capabilities and deep expertise in product development, we help our customers take products to market faster, including nearly half of new drug products approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the

“

FDA

”

) in the last decade. Our advanced delivery technology platforms, which include those in our Softgel Technologies, Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery, and Oral Drug Delivery segments, our proven formulation, manufacturing, and regulatory expertise, and our broad and deep intellectual property enable our customers to develop more products and better treatments for patients and consumers. Across both development and delivery, our commitment to reliably supply our customers’ and their patients’ needs is the foundation for the value we provide; annually, we produce approximately 73 billion doses for nearly 7,000 customer products, or approximately 1 in every 20 doses of such products taken each year by patients and consumers around the world. We believe that through our investments in growth-enabling capacity and capabilities, our ongoing focus on operational and quality excellence, the sales of existing customer products, the introduction of new customer products, our innovation activities and patents, and our entry into new markets, we will continue to benefit from attractive and differentiated margins and realize the growth potential from these areas.

We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, intellectual property, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach, and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of business and product solutions that can be customized to fit their individual needs. Today we employ approximately 2,400 scientists and technicians and hold more than 1,300 patents and patent applications in advanced delivery, drug and biologics formulation, and manufacturing. The aim of our offerings is to allow our customers to bring more products to market faster, and to develop and market differentiated new products that improve patient outcomes. We believe our leading market position and diversity of customers, offerings, regulatory categories, products, and geographies reduce our exposure to potential strategic and product shifts within the industry.

We provide a number of proprietary, differentiated technologies, products, and service offerings to our customers across our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions platforms. The core technologies within our advanced delivery technologies platform include softgel capsules, our Zydis orally dissolving tablets, blow-fill-seal unit-dose liquids, adeno-associated virus (“AAV”) vectors, and a range of other oral, injectable and respiratory delivery technologies. The technologies and service offerings within our development solutions platform span the drug development process, ranging from our OptiForm Solution Suite for enhancement of bioavailability and other characteristics of early-stage molecules, and Gene Product Expression (“GPEx”)and SMARTag platforms for development of biologics and antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), to formulation, analytical services, early-stage clinical development, and clinical trials supply, including our unique FastChain demand-led clinical supply solution. Our offerings serve a critical need in the development and manufacturing of difficult-to-formulate products across a number of product types.

We have advanced our technologies and grown our service offerings over more than 85 years through internal development, strategic alliances, in-licensing, and acquisitions. We initially introduced our softgel capsule technology in the 1930s and have continued to expand our range of new, technologically enhanced offerings. Since fiscal 2013, we have launched OptiShell, OptiMelt, Zydis Nano, Zydis Bio, OptiPact, the OptiForm Solution Suite, and our FastChain demand-led clinical supply solution. Since then, our customers have obtained regulatory approval for the first-to-market product using our OptiShell






technology.



We have also augmented our portfolio through acquisitions. In fiscal 2015, we added an ADC business through the completion of our acquisition of Redwood Bioscience in October 2014; and extended our particle engineering capabilities via our November 2014 acquisition of Micron Technologies. In fiscal 2017, we expanded our early development capabilities, including the addition of spray drying technology into our drug formulation and delivery technologies, through the acquisition of Pharmatek Laboratories, Inc. (“Pharmatek”) in September 2016, and we expanded our softgel development and manufacturing network via the February 2017 acquisition of Accucaps Industries Limited (“Accucaps”). In fiscal 2018, we acquired Cook Pharmica LLC (now named “Catalent Indiana, LLC”) in order to enhance our biologics capabilities. In fiscal 2019, we acquired Juniper Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Juniper”), which extends to the U.K. the geographic reach of the early development capabilities we gained through Pharmatek and Paragon Bioservices, Inc. (“Paragon”), adding advanced gene therapy development and manufacturing capabilities to our biologics business and enhancing our end-to-end integrated biopharmaceutical solutions for customers. In large part due to our acquisitions of Catalent Indiana and Paragon, revenue contributions from our biologics business have grown from approximately 10% in fiscal 2014 to 29% in fiscal 2019. We also agreed to acquire Bristol-Myers Squibb Company

’

s oral solid, biologics, and sterile product manufacturing and packaging facility in Anagni, Italy, a transaction that we expect to close by the end of calendar 2019, and two advanced biologics clinical development and manufacturing sites in southern Maryland from Novavax, Inc., which closed during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. We believe our own internal innovation, supplemented by current and future external partnerships and acquisitions, will continue to strengthen and extend our leadership positions in the delivery and development of drugs, biologics, and consumer health products.



History

We were formed in April 2007, when affiliates of The Blackstone Group L.P. (“Blackstone”) acquired the core of the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (“PTS”) segment of Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”). Cardinal had created PTS through a series of acquisitions beginning with R.P. Scherer Corporation in 1998. We are a holding company that indirectly owns Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. (“Operating Company”), which owns, directly or indirectly, all of our operating subsidiaries. Since the 2007 acquisition of PTS, we have regularly reviewed our portfolio of offerings and operations in the context of our strategic growth plan, and, as a result, we have sold seven businesses and consolidated operations at five facilities, integrating them into the remaining facility network. In fiscal 2018, we agreed to sell our facility in Braeside, Australia, and we expect to close that transaction in the first half of fiscal 2020. We have also actively acquired new businesses and facilities. In July 2014, we completed the initial public offering (the “IPO”) of our common stock, par value $0.01 (the “Common Stock”), which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “CTLT.” Blackstone and its minority partners sold all of the stock they held in us in a series of secondary offerings ending in September 2016.



Our Competitive Strengths

Leading Provider of Advanced Delivery Technologies and Development Solutions

We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer and animal health products. In the last decade, we have earned revenue with respect to nearly half of the drugs based on new molecular entities (“NMEs”) approved by the FDA, and over the past three years with respect to more than 80% of the top 200 largest-selling compounds globally. With approximately 2,400 scientists and technicians worldwide and more than 1,300 patents and patent applications, our expertise is in providing differentiated technologies and solutions that help our customers bring more products and better treatments to market faster. For example, in the high-value area of new chemical entities (“NCEs”), approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us.

Diversified Operating Platform

We are diversified by virtue of our geographic scope, our large customer base, the extensive range of products we produce, our broad service offerings, and our ability to provide solutions at nearly every stage of a product’s lifecycle. In fiscal 2019, we produced nearly 7,000 distinct items across multiple categories; our fiscal 2019 regulatory-based classification of revenues demonstrates this: branded drugs (34%), generic prescription drugs (7%), protein and gene therapy biologics (32%), over-the-counter drugs (13%), and consumer health, veterinary products, medical devices, and diagnostics (14% combined). In fiscal 2019, our top 20 products represented approximately 20% of total revenue, with no single customer accounting for greater than 10% of revenue and with no individual product greater than 4%. We serve more than 1,000 customers in approximately 80 countries, with nearly half of our fiscal 2019 revenues coming from outside the United States. This diversity, combined with long product lifecycles and close customer relationships, has contributed to the stability of our business. It has also allowed us to reduce our exposure to potential strategic, customer, and product shifts as well as to payer-driven pricing pressures experienced by our drug and biologic customers.








Longstanding, Extensive Relationships with Blue Chip Customers

We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal 2019, we did business with 83 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 21 of the top 25 generics marketers, 23 of the top 25 biologics marketers, and 21 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally, as well as with more than 1,000 other customers, including emerging and specialty companies, which are often more reliant on outside partners as a result of their more virtual business models. Regardless of size, our customers seek innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing, and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs.

We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach, and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of tailored solutions, many of which are unavailable from other individual providers.

Deep, Broad and Growing Technology Foundation

. As of June 30, 2019, we had approximately 1,100 product development programs in active development across our businesses.

Long-Duration Relationships Provide Sustainability

Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers’ molecules to yield final formulations and dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers’ prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level, to which we apply our expertise in contracting to produce long-duration commercial supply agreements. These agreements typically have initial terms of three to seven years with regular renewals of one to three years (see“—Contractual Arrangements”for more detail). Approximately two-thirds of our fiscal 2019 advanced delivery technology platform revenues (comprised of our Softgel Technologies, Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery, and Oral Drug Delivery reporting segments) were covered by such long-term contractual arrangements. We believe this base provides us with a sustainable competitive advantage.

Significant Recent Growth Investments

We have made significant investments over time to establish a manufacturing network, capable of serving customers and patients worldwide and today employ 6.4 million square feet of manufacturing and laboratory space across five continents. We have deployed approximately $815.0 million in the last five fiscal years in gross capital expenditures. Growth-related investments in facilities, capacity, and capabilities across our businesses have positioned us for future growth in areas aligned with anticipated future demand. Through our focus on operational, quality, and regulatory excellence, we drive ongoing and continuous improvements in safety, productivity, and reliable supply to customer expectations, which we believe further differentiate us. Our manufacturing network and capabilities allow us the flexibility to reliably supply the changing needs of our customers while consistently meeting their quality, delivery, and regulatory compliance expectations.

High Standards of Regulatory Compliance and Operational and Quality Excellence

We operate our plants in accordance with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”) or other applicable requirements, following our own high standards that are consistent with those of many of our large global pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. We have more than 1,900 employees around the globe focused on quality and regulatory compliance. All of our facilities are registered with the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the European Medicines






Agency (the“EMA”). In some cases, facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies. In fiscal 2019, we were subject to 75 regulatory audits, and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed approximately 300 regulatory audits. We also undergo more than 400 customer and internal audits annually. We believe our quality and regulatory track record to be a favorable competitive differentiator.

Strong and Experienced Management Team

Our executive leadership team collectively has more than 200 years of combined and diverse experience within the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. With an average of more than 29 years of functional experience, this team possesses deep knowledge and a wide network of industry relationships.



Our Strategy

We are pursuing the following key growth initiatives:

“Follow the Molecule”®Providing Solutions to our Customers across all Phases of the Product Lifecycle

We intend to use our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions across the entire lifecycle of our customers’ products to drive future growth. Our development solutions span the drug development process, starting with our platforms for early pre-clinical development of small molecules, biologics, and antibody-drug conjugates, to formulation and analytical services, through clinical development and manufacturing of clinical trial supplies, to regulatory consulting. Once a molecule is ready for therapeutic trials and subsequent commercialization, we provide our customers with a range of advanced delivery technologies and manufacturing expertise that allow them to deliver their molecules to the end-users in appropriate dosage forms. The relationship between a molecule and our advanced delivery technologies typically starts with developing and manufacturing the innovator product, then extends throughout the molecule’s commercial life, including with additional customers through potential generic launches or over-the-counter conversion. For prescription products, we are typically the sole and/or exclusive provider, and are reflected in customers’ new drug applications. Our revenues from our advanced delivery technologies are primarily driven by volumes and, as a result, the loss of an innovator drug’s market exclusivity may be mitigated if we supply both branded and generic customers.

An example of this can be found in a leading over-the-counter respiratory brand, which today uses both our Zydis fast dissolve and our Liqui-Gels softgel technologies. We originally began development of the prescription format of this product for our multinational pharmaceutical company partner in 1992 to address specific patient sub-segment needs. After four years of development, we then commercially supplied the prescription Zydis product for six years, and we have continued to provide the Zydis form since the switch to over-the-counter status in the United States and other markets in the early 2000s. Subsequently, we proactively brought a softgel product concept for the brand to the customer, which the customer elected to develop and launch as well. By following this molecule, we have built a strong, 27-year-long relationship across multiple formats and markets.

Customer Product Pipeline—Continuing to Grow Through New Projects and Product Launches

We intend to grow by supplementing our existing diverse base of commercialized advanced delivery technology products with new development programs. As of June 30, 2019, our product development teams were working on approximately 1,100 new customer programs. Our base of active development programs has expanded in recent years from growing market demand, as well as from our expanded capabilities and technologies. Although there are many complex factors that affect the development and commercialization of pharmaceutical, biological, and consumer and animal health products, we expect that a portion of these programs will reach full development and market approval in the future and thereby add to our long-duration commercial revenues under long-term contracts and grow our existing product base. In fiscal 2019, we introduced 193 new products for our customers.

Catalent continues to be the global leader in providing chemistry, manufacturing, and controls-based product development services to the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer health industry, driven by thousands of projects annually. In fiscal 2019, we recognized approximately $653.0 million of revenue related to the development of products on behalf of customers, included in our Softgel Technologies, Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery, and Oral Drug Delivery reporting segments, up 27% from the prior year. In addition, substantially all of the revenues associated with the Clinical Supply Services segment relate to our support of customer products in development.

Capabilities & Capacity—Expanding in Biologics and Other Attractive Markets

Recognizing the strategic importance of biologics, we began to build a differentiated biologics cell-line and formulation development platform in 2002. Since then, we have invested over $2.2 billion in our biologics business, including capital






investments, the fiscal 2019 acquisition of Paragon for an aggregate nominal purchase price of $1.2 billion, and the fiscal 2018 acquisition of Catalent Indiana for an aggregate nominal purchase price of $950.0 million. And we have commenced a $200.0 million capital investment at our sites in Bloomington and Madison to expand drug substance manufacturing capacity and drug product fill/finish capacity due to projected growth among our existing and future customers. Today, we are a recognized leader in biologics, including AAV vectors for gene therapies; advanced cell-line development, formulation, and fill-finish into pre-filled syringes, vials, and cartridges; and increasingly in specialized manufacturing of biologic drug substance for use in clinical trials and bioanalytical analysis. The third production suite in our Madison, Wisconsin facility came on-line in fiscal 2018 taking us to commercial scale supply for biologics drug substance. We have partnered with customers from around the world to develop advanced cell expression for nearly 700 cell lines, many using our advanced GPEx technology. And we have invested in a second-generation antibody-drug conjugate technology, SMARTag, and we see continued progress in our customers’ SMARTag product-development activities.

In addition to our expansion in biologics, we have invested additional capital in several existing non-biological facilities in order to expand in attractive markets, including a recently completed significant expansion of our oral solid controlled release production capacity in Winchester, Kentucky, the scaling-up of commercial manufacturing capacity for metered-dose inhalers, and our commencement of a $27.0 million capital investment to commercialize our next-generation orally disintegrating tablet (ODT) technology, Zydis Ultra. We have also added key new capabilities in early development via our fiscal 2019 acquisition of Juniper Pharmaceuticals and our fiscal 2017 acquisition of Pharmatek, and expanded our North American consumer health softgel capacity via our fiscal 2017 Accucaps acquisition.

Advanced Technologies—Capitalize on Our Substantial Platforms

We have broad and diverse technology platforms that are supported by extensive know-how and more than 1,300 patents and patent applications in approximately 125 families across advanced delivery technologies, drug and biologics formulation, and manufacturing. For example, we have significant softgel fill and formulation know-how, databases of formulated products, and substantial softgel regulatory approval expertise, and, as a result, approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us.

In addition to resolving delivery challenges for our customers’ products, for more than two decades we have applied our technology platforms and development expertise to proactively develop proof-of-concept products, whether improved versions of existing drugs, new generic formulations or innovative consumer health products. In the consumer health area, we file product dossiers with regulators in relevant jurisdictions for self-created products, which help contribute sustainable growth to our consumer health business. We expect to continue to seek proactive development opportunities and other non-traditional relationships to increase demand for and value realized from our technology platforms. These activities have provided us with opportunities to capture an increased share of end-market value through out-licensing, profit-sharing and other arrangements.

Operational Leverage—Deploy Existing Infrastructure and Operational Discipline to Drive Profitable Growth

Through our existing infrastructure, including our global network of operating locations and programs, we promote operational discipline and drive margin expansion. With our Lean Manufacturing and Lean Six Sigma programs, a global procurement function and conversion cost productivity metrics in place, we have created a culture of functional excellence and cost accountability. We intend to continue to apply this discipline to leverage further our operational network for profitable growth. Since fiscal 2009, we have expanded gross margin by over 400 basis points and Adjusted EBITDA margin by over 400 basis points. Note that“Adjusted EBITDA”is a financial metric that is not prepared in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), and that further explanations of this metric and comparisons to the most nearly comparable U.S. GAAP metrics are set forth below at“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Historical and Adjusted EBITDA.”

Strategic Acquisitions and Licensing—Build on our Existing Platform

We operate in highly fragmented markets in both our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions businesses. Within those markets, the five top players represent approximately 35% and 10% of the total market share, respectively, by revenue. Our broad platform, global infrastructure and diversified customer base provide us with a strong foundation from which to consolidate within these markets and to generate operating leverage through such acquisitions. Since fiscal 2013, we have executed ten transactions, investing approximately $2.7 billion, and have demonstrated an ability to efficiently and effectively integrate these acquisitions.

While we are rigorously focused on driving Catalent’s organic growth, we intend to continue to opportunistically source and execute bolt-on strategic acquisitions within our existing business areas, as well as to undertake transactions that provide us with expansion opportunities within new geographic markets or adjacent market segments. We have a dedicated corporate






development team in place to identify these opportunities and have a rigorous and financially disciplined process for evaluating, executing, and integrating such acquisitions.



Our Reportable Segments

We currently operate in four operating segments, which also constitute our four reporting segments: Softgel Technologies, Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery, Oral Drug Delivery, and Clinical Supply Services, as further described below.

Softgel Technologies

Through our Softgel Technologies segment, we provide formulation, development, and manufacturing services for soft capsules, or

“

softgels,

”

Our Softgel Technologies segment represents 34%, 36%, and 40% of our aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.

Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery

Our Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery segment provides drug substance development and manufacturing, drug product clinical and commercial manufacturing, integrated clinical and commercial supply solutions for protein and gene therapy biologics and specialty small molecules administered via injection, inhalation, and ophthalmic routes, using both traditional and advanced delivery technologies. The business has extensive expertise in development, scale up and commercial manufacturing. Representative customers of Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery include Eli Lilly, Teva, Mylan, Roche, Novartis, Sarepta, and Genentech, along with multiple innovative small and mid-tier pharmaceutical and biologics customers.






supporting the development and launch of new biologic entities, biosimilars, and biobetters to bring a product from gene to commercialization, faster.

On May 17, 2019, we acquired Paragon, which is focused on the development and manufacture of cutting-edge biopharmaceuticals, including viral vectors used in gene therapies. For over 25 years, Paragon has partnered with some of the world’s leading biotech and pharma companies to develop and manufacture products based on transformative technologies, including gene therapies based on AAV and other modalities, next-generation vaccines, oncology immunotherapies (oncolytic viruses and CAR-T cell therapies), therapeutic proteins, and other complex biologics. Paragon brings specialized expertise in AAV vectors, the most commonly used delivery system for gene therapy, as well as capabilities in plasmids and lentivirus vectors manufactured using cGMP, which position us to capitalize on strong industry tailwinds in the market for gene therapies. Paragon also brings to Catalent its differentiated scientific, development, and manufacturing capabilities, which will fundamentally enhance our biologics business and end-to-end integrated biopharmaceutical solutions for customers. In June 2019, Paragon agreed to acquire two additional laboratory and manufacturing facilities located in southern Maryland from Novavax, Inc. The Novavax acquisition closed in late July 2019.

We also offer bioanalytical development and testing services for large molecules, including cGMP release and stability testing. Our respiratory product capabilities include development and manufacturing services for inhaled products for delivery via metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers, and intra-nasal sprays. Across multiple complex dosage forms, the segment provides drug and biologic solutions from early-stage development and clinical support all the way through to scale up and commercialization.

Our Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery segment represents 29%, 24% and 17% of our aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.

Oral Drug Delivery

Our Oral Drug Delivery segment provides various advanced formulation development and manufacturing technologies, and related integrated solutions including: clinical development and commercial manufacturing of a broad range of oral dose forms, including our proprietary fast-dissolve Zydis tablets and both conventional immediate and controlled-release tablets, capsules, and sachet products. Representative customers of Oral Drug Delivery include Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Bayer, Novartis, and Perrigo.

We provide comprehensive pre-formulation, development, and cGMP manufacturing at both clinical and commercial scales for traditional and advanced complex oral solid-dose formats, including coated and uncoated tablets, pellet/bead/powder-filled two-piece hard capsules, granulated powders, and other forms of immediate and modified release branded prescription, generic, and consumer products. We have substantial experience developing and scaling up products requiring accelerated development timelines, solubility enhancement, specialized handling (e.g.,potent or DEA-regulated materials), complex technology transfers, and specialized manufacturing processes. We also provide micronization and particle engineering services, which may enhance a drug’s manufacturability or clinical performance. We offer comprehensive analytical testing and scientific services and stability testing for small molecules, both to support integrated development programs and on a fee-for-service basis. We provide global regulatory and support services for our customers’ clinical strategies during all stages of development. In recent years, we have expanded our network of development sites focused on earlier phase compounds, to engage with more customer molecules, earlier, with the intent to provide later stage manufacturing and supporting services as those molecules progress towards commercial approval and beyond. Demand for our offerings is driven by the need for






scientific expertise and depth and breadth of services offered, as well as by the reliability of our supply, including quality, execution, and performance.

We launched our orally dissolving tablet business in 1986 with the introduction of Zydis tablets, a unique proprietary freeze-dried tablet that typically dissolves in the mouth, without water, in less than three seconds. Most often used for drugs and patient groups that can benefit from rapid oral disintegration, we can adapt the Zydis technology to a wide range of products and indications, including treatments for a variety of central nervous system-related conditions such as migraines, Parkinson’s disease, and schizophrenia, and consumer healthcare products targeting indications such as pain and allergy relief. We continue to develop Zydis tablets in different ways with our customers as we extend the application of the technology to new therapeutic categories, including immunotherapy, vaccines, and biologic molecule delivery and improve its drug load capacity and taste-masking properties.

Our Oral Drug Delivery segment represents 24%, 23%, and 27% of our aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.

Clinical Supply Services

Our Clinical Supply Services segment represents 13%, 17%, and 16% of our aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.



Integrated Development and Product Supply Chain Solutions

In addition to our proprietary offerings, we are also differentiated in the market by our ability to bring together our development solutions and advanced delivery technologies to offer innovative development and product supply solutions that can be combined or tailored in many ways to enable our customers to take their drugs, biologics, and consumer health products from laboratory to market. Once a product is on the market, we can provide comprehensive integrated product supply, from the sourcing of the bulk active ingredient to comprehensive manufacturing and packaging to the testing required for release to distribution. The customer- and product-specific solutions we develop are flexible, scalable and creative, so that they meet the unique needs of both large and emerging companies and are appropriate for products of all sizes. We believe that our development and product supply solutions such as OptiForm Solutions Suite and OneBioSuite will continue to contribute to our future growth.










Sales and Marketing

We follow a hybrid demand-generation organization model, with strategic account teams offering the full breadth of Catalent’s solutions, and technical specialist teams providing the in-depth technical knowledge and practical experience essential for each individual offering. Our sales organization currently consists of more than 150 full-time, experienced sales professionals, supported by inside sales and sales operations. We also have built a dedicated strategic marketing team, providing strategic market and product planning and management for our offerings. As part of our marketing efforts, we participate in major trade shows relevant to our offerings globally and ensure adequate visibility to our offerings and solutions through a comprehensive print and on-line advertising and publicity program. We believe that Catalent is a strong brand with high overall awareness in our established markets and universe of target customers, and that our brand identity is a competitive advantage for us.

Global Accounts

We manage selected accounts globally due to their substantial current business and growth potential. We recorded approximately 20% of our total revenue in fiscal 2019 from these global accounts. Each global account is assigned a lead business development professional with substantial industry experience. These account leaders, along with other members of the sales and executive leadership teams, are responsible for managing and extending the overall account relationship. Account leaders work closely with the rest of the sales organization to ensure alignment around critical priorities for the accounts.

Emerging, Specialty, and Virtual Accounts

Emerging, specialty, and virtual pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are expected to be critical drivers of industry growth globally. Historically, many of these companies have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather partner with other companies to produce their products. We expect them to continue to do so in the future, providing a critical source for future integrated solutions demand. We expect to continue to increase our penetration of geographic clusters of emerging companies in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We regularly use active pipeline and product screening and customer targeting to identify the optimal candidates for partnering based on product profiles, funding status, and relationships, to ensure that our technical sales specialists and field sales representatives develop custom solutions designed to address the specific needs of these customers.

Seasonality; Fluctuations in Operation Results

Our annual financial reporting periods end on June 30. Our revenue and net earnings are generally higher in the third and fourth quarters of each fiscal year, with our first fiscal quarter typically generating our lowest revenue of any quarter, and our last fiscal quarter typically generating our highest revenue. These fluctuations are primarily the result of the timing of our, and our customers’, annual operational maintenance periods at locations in continental Europe and the U.K., the seasonality associated with pharmaceutical and biotechnology budgetary spending decisions, clinical trial and research and development schedules, the timing of new product launches and length of time needed to obtain full market penetration, and, to a lesser extent, the time of the year some of our customers’ products are in higher demand.



Contractual Arrangements

We generally enter into a broad range of contractual arrangements with our customers, including agreements with respect to feasibility, development, supply, licenses, and quality. The terms of these contracts vary significantly depending on the






offering and customer requirements. Some of our agreements may include a variety of revenue arrangements such as fee-for-service, minimum volume commitments, royalties, profit-sharing and fixed fees. We employ a range of capacity access approaches, from standard to completely dedicated capacity models, based on customer and product needs. We generally secure pricing and other contract mechanisms in our supply agreements to allow for periodic resetting of pricing terms, and, in some cases, these agreements permit us to renegotiate pricing in the event of certain price increases for the raw materials we use to make products. Our typical supply agreements include indemnification from our customers for product liability and intellectual property matters and caps on our contractual liabilities, subject in each case to negotiated exclusions. The terms of our manufacturing supply agreements range from three to seven years with regular renewals of one to three years, although some of our agreements are terminable upon much shorter notice periods, such as 30 or 90 days. For our development solutions offerings, we may enter into master service agreements, which provide for standardized terms and conditions and make it easier and faster for customers with multiple development needs to access our offerings.



Backlog

While we generally have long-term supply agreements that provide for a revenue stream over a period of years, our backlog represents, as of a point in time, future service revenues from work not yet completed. For our Softgel Technologies, Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery, and Oral Drug Delivery segments, backlog represents firm orders for manufacturing services and includes minimum volumes, where applicable. For our Clinical Supply Services segment, backlog represents estimated future service revenues from work not yet completed under signed contracts. Using these methods of reporting backlog, as of June 30, 2019, our backlog was $1,349.8 million compared to $1,112.3 million as of June 30, 2018, including $366.3 million and $273.2 million, respectively, related to our Clinical Supply Services segment. We expect to recognize approximately 85% of revenue from the backlog in existence as of June 30, 2019 by the completion of fiscal year ending 2020.

To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. If a customer cancels an order, we may be reimbursed for the costs we have incurred. For orders that are placed inside a contractual firm period, we generally have a contractual right to payment in the event of cancellation. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the timing and order pattern of our customers who often seek to manage their level of inventory on hand. Because of customer ordering patterns, our backlog reported for certain periods may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future results.



Manufacturing Capabilities

We operate manufacturing facilities, development centers and sales offices throughout the world. As of June 30, 2019, we had thirty-nine facilities (four geographical locations operate as multiple facilities because they support more than one reporting segment) on five continents with 6.4 million square feet of manufacturing, laboratory, and related space.In addition, in May 2019, we signed an agreement to acquire a facility in Anagni, Italy that produces both oral and sterile dose forms for drugs and biologics, which is expected to close by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020, and, in June 2019, we signed an agreement to acquire two facilities in southern Maryland from Novavax, Inc. to supplement the capabilities of Paragon, particularly in early-stage development. This acquisition closed in late July 2019. Our manufacturing capabilities include the full suite of competencies relevant to support each site’s activities, including regulatory, quality assurance, and in-house validation.

We operate our plants in accordance with cGMP or other applicable requirements. All of our facilities are registered with the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the EMA. In some cases, our facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies.

We have invested $534.4 million in our manufacturing facilities since fiscal 2017 through improvements and expansions in our facilities, including $218.1 million on capital expenditures in fiscal 2019. We believe that our facilities and equipment are in good condition, are well maintained, and are able to operate at or above present levels for the foreseeable future, in all material respects.

Our manufacturing operations are focused on employee health and safety, regulatory compliance, operational excellence, continuous improvement, and process standardization across the organization. In fiscal 2019, we achieved approximately 97% on-time shipment delivery versus customer request date across our network as a result of this focus. Our manufacturing operations are structured around an enterprise management philosophy and methodology that utilizes principles and tools common to a number of quality management programs, including Lean Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing.



Raw Materials

We use a broad and diverse range of raw materials in the design, development, and manufacture of our products. This includes, but is not limited to, key materials such as gelatin, starch, and iota carrageenan for our Softgel Technologies segment; packaging films for our Clinical Supply Services segment; and glass vials and syringes for injectable fill-finish along with resin for our blow-fill-seal business in our Biologics and Specialty Drug Delivery segment. The raw materials that we use are sourced






externally on a global basis. Globally, our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural disasters and international supply disruptions, including those caused by pandemics or geopolitical and other issues. For example, commercially usable gelatin is available from a limited number of sources. In addition, much of the gelatin we use is bovine-derived. Past concerns of contamination from Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE”) have narrowed the number of possible sources of particular types of gelatin. If there were a future disruption in the supply of gelatin from any one or more key suppliers, there can be no assurance that we could obtain an alternative supply from our other suppliers. Any future restriction that were to emerge on the use of bovine-derived gelatin from certain geographic sources due to concerns of contamination from BSE could hinder our ability to timely supply our customers with products and the use of alternative non-bovine-derived gelatin for specific customer products could be subject to lengthy formulation, testing and regulatory approval periods.

We work very closely with our suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining excellence in material quality and reliability. We continually evaluate alternate sources of supply, although we do not frequently pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources for key raw materials due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships, the reliability of our current supplier base, and the time and expense associated with the regulatory process. Although a change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment by us in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to the performance of our products or incorporate specialized material such as gelatin, we do not believe that the loss of any existing supply arrangement would have a material adverse effect on our business. See“Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry—Our future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs, availability, and suitability of the components of the products we manufacture, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients, purchased components, and raw materials.”



Competition

We compete with multiple companies as to each of our offerings and in every region of the globe in which we operate, including with other companies that offer conventional and advanced delivery technologies, clinical trials support, outsourced dose form or biologics manufacturing, or development services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer health companies based in North America, South America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. We also compete in some cases with the internal operations of those pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer health customers that also have manufacturing capabilities and choose to source these services internally.

Competition is driven by proprietary technologies and know-how (where relevant), capabilities, consistency of operational performance, quality, price, value, responsiveness, and speed. While we do have competitors that compete with us in our individual offerings, and a few competitors that compete across many of our offerings, we do not believe we have competition from any directly comparable company.

Research and Development Costs

Our research activities are primarily directed toward the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements. Costs incurred in connection with the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements are recorded within selling, general, and administrative expenses. Such research and development costs included in selling, general, and administrative expenses amounted to $3.3 million, $6.3 million, and $7.0 million for fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Costs incurred in connection with research and development services we provide to customers and services performed in support of the commercial manufacturing process for customers are recorded within cost of sales. Such research and development costs included in cost of sales amounted to $51.2 million, $46.2 million, and $45.8 million for fiscal years ended 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively.



Employees

As of June 30, 2019, we had nearly 12,300 employees in thirty-nine facilities on five continents: fifteen facilities are in the United States, with certain employees at one facility being represented by a labor organization with their terms and conditions of employment being subject to a collective bargaining agreement. National works councils and/or labor organizations are active at all thirteen of our European facilities consistent with labor environments/laws in European countries. Similar relationships with labor organizations or national works councils exist at our plants in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, and Canada. Our management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory.

North AmericaEuropeSouth AmericaAsia PacificTotalApproximate number of employees as of June 30, 20196,8003,90090070012,300












Corporate Responsibility

Responsible business practices are essential to fulfilling our mission of helping people live better, healthier lives. Our corporate values are at the foundation of our culture and everything we do. Our explicit commitment to Patient First means that we put patients at the center of our work to ensure the safety, reliable supply, and optimal performance of our products.

We ask employees at every level of our organization to uphold these values and to apply the highest ethical standards in their work. Investing in our people, managing our environmental footprint, and giving back to our communities are part of our long-term growth and sustainability strategy and guide our Corporate Responsibility (CR) program.

Governance

To manage our CR performance, we maintain a CR Council made up of executive and senior leadership to guide the implementation of our CR strategy and commitments and report to our board of directors or a designated committee on CR matters. Three committees reporting to the CR Council—the Environmental Committee, the Grant-making Committee, and the Community Engagement Ambassador Network—help drive progress in three critical areas of our overall CR commitment and embed CR deeper into our business.



Significant initiatives

We focus on those aspects within the overall corporate responsibility area that we believe to be most significant to our business. Our view is informed by stakeholder feedback, regulatory developments, and issues that appear to engage our constituencies. From time to time, we assess and prioritize among potential initiatives in order to focus our resources. Relevant issues on which we have focused during fiscal 2019 include:

•Community investment and philanthropy

▪Diversity and inclusion

▪Energy use and climate change

▪Occupational health and safety

▪Product innovation

▪Product quality and safety

▪Talent attraction and retention

▪Training and development

▪Waste

Business benefits

Beyond being the right thing to do, our focus on CR strengthens our business by reducing risks, meeting customer and investor expectations, and attracting top talent to join and stay with us. CR performance is an important contributor to our business success. It informs our risk management process, protects our reputation, and alerts us to regulatory, environmental, and societal threats to our business. Our CR activities also support our customers, some of which have robust CR programs and prefer suppliers with a similar commitment.

Our future success depends on our highly skilled and dedicated global team of employees, who are passionate about improving health outcomes. We compete for the top talent in our industry and recognize that our reputation as a responsible company can be a differentiator for prospective job candidates.

Progress in 2019

In fiscal 2019, we continued to introduce an expanded set of site-based CR performance metrics to measure the impact of our CR activities across our network. As part of this exercise, we conducted our most comprehensive environmental baseline assessment to date. Our environmental data, and other relevant CR metrics and targets, will be shared as part of our first CR report, which is expected in 2020. Catalent has also achieved global accreditation with respect to the international management standards for environment (ISO14001:2015) and occupational safety (OHSAS18001:2007).

In April 2019, our second annual Earth Month campaign, Catalent Unplugged, emphasized our focus on reducing CO₂ emissions linked to energy use. Our employees and sites responded enthusiastically, organizing volunteering, recycling, awareness-raising, and waste elimination initiatives across the network.








Our Catalent Month of Service grew to include almost every site in the Catalent network. We expanded our community grant making program, focused on giving back through our diverse network of facilities worldwide. Our grants promote local organizations that support patients and encourage STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) educational and training initiatives. Catalent’s disaster response program is valued by our employees for helping people affected by natural disasters in the U.S. and beyond.

Further information on our CR program is available at https://www.catalent.com/index.php/about-us/Corporate-Responsibility, but this website is not part of our public disclosures and is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.



Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of know-how, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect a number of our offerings, services, and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to our ongoing operations. Certain of our operations and products are under intellectual property licenses from third parties, and in certain instances we license our technology to third parties. We also have a long track record of innovation across our lines of business, and, to further encourage active innovation, we have developed incentive compensation systems linked to patent filings and other recognition and reward programs for scientists and non-scientists alike.

We have applied in the United States and certain foreign countries for registration of a number of trademarks, service marks, and patents, some of which have been registered and issued, and also hold common law rights in various trademarks and service marks. We hold more than 1,300 patents and patent applications worldwide relating to advanced drug delivery and biologics formulations and technologies, as well as manufacturing and other areas relevant to our business.

We hold patents and license rights relating to certain aspects of our formulations, nutritional and pharmaceutical dosage forms, mammalian cell engineering, and sterile manufacturing services. We also hold patents relating to certain processes and products. We have a number of pending patent applications in the United States and certain other countries and intend to pursue additional patents as appropriate. We have enforced and will continue to enforce our intellectual property rights in the United States and worldwide.

We do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise, or concession to be material to our overall business.



Regulatory Matters

The manufacture, distribution, and marketing of healthcare products and the provision of certain services for development-stage pharmaceutical and biotechnology products are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA, other U.S. governmental authorities, and foreign regulatory authorities. Certain of our subsidiaries are required to register for permits or licenses with, and must comply with the operating, cGMP, quality, and security standards of, applicable domestic and foreign healthcare regulators, including the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (the“DEA”), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (the“DHHS”), the equivalent agencies of the European Union (the“E.U.”) and its member states, and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, and comparable foreign agencies, as well as various accrediting bodies, each depending upon the type of operations and the locations of distribution and sale of the products manufactured or services provided by those subsidiaries.

In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to other healthcare laws, including the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, the Controlled Substances Act, and comparable state and foreign laws and regulations in certain of their activities.

We are also subject to various federal, state, local, foreign and transnational laws, regulations, and requirements, both in the United States and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and distribution practices, and the use, transportation, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, U.S. and international import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the cross-border transit of finished goods, raw materials, and supplies and the handling of information. We are also subject to various other laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records.

The costs associated with complying with the various applicable federal, state, local, foreign, and transnational regulations could be significant, and the failure to comply with such legal requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See“Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry—Failure to






comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition or result in claims from customers,”for additional discussion of the costs associated with complying with the various regulations.

In fiscal 2019, we were subject to 75 regulatory audits, and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed approximately 300 regulatory audits.



Quality Assurance

We are committed to ensuring and maintaining the highest standard of regulatory compliance while providing high quality products to our customers. To meet these commitments, we have developed and implemented a Catalent-wide quality management system. We have more than 1,900 employees around the globe focusing on quality and regulatory compliance. Our senior management team is actively involved in setting quality policies, standards, and internal position papers as well as managing internal and external quality performance. Our quality assurance department provides quality leadership and supervises our quality systems programs. An internal audit program monitors compliance with applicable regulations, standards, and internal policies. In addition, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the DEA, and other equivalent local, state, and foreign regulatory authorities as well as our customers. All FDA, DEA, and other regulatory inspectional observations have been resolved or are on track to be completed at the prescribed timeframe provided in commitments to the applicable agency in all material respects. We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the regulations under which our facilities are governed.



Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the“EPA”) and equivalent state, local, and foreign regulatory agencies in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination, and employee health and safety. Our manufacturing facilities use, in varying degrees, hazardous substances in their processes. These substances include, among others, chlorinated solvents, and in the past chlorinated solvents were used at one or more of our facilities, including a number we no longer own or operate. As at our current facilities, contamination at such formerly owned or operated properties can result and has resulted in liability to us, for which we have recorded appropriate reserves as needed. We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the environment, health, and safety regulations applicable to our facilities.














