ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview

We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer health products. Our oral, injectable, and respiratory delivery technologies address the full diversity of the pharmaceutical industry including small molecules, large molecule biologics and consumer health products. Through our extensive capabilities and deep expertise in product development, we help our customers take products to market faster, including nearly half of new drug products approved by the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") in the last decade. Our advanced delivery technology platforms, broad and deep intellectual property, and proven formulation, manufacturing and regulatory expertise enable our customers to develop more products and better treatments. Across both development and delivery, our commitment to reliably supply our customers’ needs is the foundation for the value we provide; annually, we produce more than70 billiondoses for nearly7,000customer products. We believe that through our investments in growth-enabling capacity and capabilities, our ongoing focus on operational and quality excellence, the sales of existing customer products, the introduction of new customer products, our patents and innovation activities, and our entry into new markets, we will continue to benefit from attractive and differentiated margins, and realize the growth potential from these areas.

Since 2010, we have made investments to expand our sales and marketing activities, leading to growth in the number of active development programs for our customers in both of our two main strategic areas. This has further enhanced our extensive, long-duration relationships and long-term contracts with a broad and diverse range of industry-leading customers. In the fiscal year ended

June 30, 2015

, we did business with

82 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 19 of the top 20 generics marketers, 40 of the top 50 biologics marketers, and 23 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally

. Selected key customers include Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Roche, Actavis and Teva. We have many long-standing relationships with our customers, particularly in advanced delivery technologies, where we tend to follow a prescription molecule through all phases of its lifecycle, from the original brand prescription, development and launch to generics or over-the-counter switch. A prescription pharmaceutical product relationship with an innovator will often last for nearly two decades, extending from mid-clinical development through the end of the product’s life cycle. We serve customers who require innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs. Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers’ molecules to yield final dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers’ prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level.

We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, intellectual property, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach, and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of business and product solutions that can be customized to fit their individual needs. Today we employ approximately900 scientists and techniciansand hold approximately1,300patents and patent applications in advanced delivery, drug and biologics formulation and manufacturing. The aim of our offerings is to allow our customers to bring more products to market faster, and develop and market differentiated new products that improve patient outcomes. We believe our leading market position, significant global scale, and diversity of customers, offerings, regulatory categories, products, and geographies reduce our exposure to potential strategic and product shifts within the industry.

We provide a number of proprietary, differentiated technologies, products and service offerings to our customers across our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions platforms. The core technologies within our advanced delivery technologies platform include softgel capsules, our Zydis oral dissolving tablets, blow-fill-seal unit dose liquids and a range of other oral, injectable and respiratory technologies. The technologies and service offerings within our development solutions platform span the drug development process, ranging from OptiFormformula optimization technology, Micron Technologies particle size engineering for small molecules, and GPExand SMARTag platforms for development of biologics and antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), to formulation, analytical services, early stage clinical development, clinical trials supply and regulatory consulting. Our offerings serve a critical need in the development and manufacturing of difficult-to-formulate products across a number of product types.



We have advanced our technologies and grown our service offerings over more than 80 years through internal development, strategic alliances, in-licensing and acquisitions. We initially introduced our softgel capsule technology in the 1930s and have continued to expand our range of new, technologically enhanced offerings. Since fiscal 2013, we have launched OptiShell, OptiDose, OptiMelt, Zydis Nano and Zydis Bio, and in fiscal 2015 we launched OptiPact. To extend the reach of our technologies and services, we have also formed several active partnerships, including recent partnerships with BASF (Germany), CEVEC (Germany), and CTC Bio (South Korea), and have active relationships with research universities around the world. We have also augmented our portfolio throughnineacquisitions since fiscal 2012, including significantly expanding









the scale of our Development and Clinical Services business through the acquisition of the Aptuit CTS business in February 2012, adding an ADC business through the completion of our acquisition of the Redwood BioScience business in October 2014, and extending our particle engineering capabilities via our November 2014 acquisition of Micron Technologies, a leader in the category. We believe our own internal innovation, supplemented by current and future external partnerships and acquisitions, will continue to strengthen and extend our leadership positions in the delivery and development of drugs, biologics and consumer health products.



History

Catalent was formed in April 2007, when affiliates of Blackstone acquired the core of the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (“PTS”) segment of Cardinal Health, Inc. (“Cardinal”). Cardinal had created PTS through a series of acquisitions beginning with R.P. Scherer Corporation in 1998, with the intent of creating the world’s leading outsourcing provider of specialized, market-leading solutions to the global pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry.  We are a holding company that indirectly owns Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. (the "Operating Company"), which owns, directly or indirectly, all of our operating subsidiaries.  Since our 2007 acquisition, we have regularly reviewed our portfolio of offerings and operations in the context of our strategic growth plan, and, as a result, we have sold five businesses and consolidated operations at four facilities, integrating them into the remaining facility network. We have also actively acquired new businesses and facilities, completingninetransactions since fiscal 2012. In July 2014, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock (the "IPO"), which is now listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “CTLT.”



Our Competitive Strengths

Leading Provider of Advanced Delivery Technologies and Development Solutions

We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer health products. In the last decade, we have earned revenue with respect to nearly half of the drugs based on new chemical entities (“NCEs”) approved by the FDA, and over the past three years with respect to nearly 80% of the top 200 largest-selling compounds globally. With approximately900 scientists and techniciansworldwide and approximately1,300patents and patent applications, our expertise is in providing differentiated technologies and solutions that help our customers bring more products and better treatments to market faster. For example, in the high-value area of NCEs,approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us.

Diversified Operating Platform

We are diversified by virtue of our geographic scope, our large customer base, the extensive range of products we produce, our broad service offerings, and our ability to provide solutions at nearly every stage of a product’s lifecycle. We produce nearly7,000distinct items across multiple categories, including brand and generic prescription drugs and biologics, over-the-counter, consumer health and veterinary products, medical devices and diagnostics. In fiscal2015, our top 20 products represented approximately 20% of total revenue, with no single customer accounting for greater than 10% of revenue and with no individual product greater than 3%. We serve approximately1,000customers in approximately 80 countries, with a majority of our fiscal2015revenues coming from outside the United States. This diversity, combined with long product lifecycles and close customer relationships, has contributed to the stability of our business. It has also allowed us to reduce our exposure to potential strategic, customer and product shifts as well as to payer-driven pricing pressures experienced by our branded drug and biologic customers.

Longstanding, Extensive Relationships with Blue Chip Customers

We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal2015, we did business with82 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 19 of the top 20 generics marketers, 40 of the top 50 biologics marketers, and 23 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally, as well as with nearly1,000other customers, including emerging and specialty companies, which are often more reliant on outside partners as a result of their more virtual business models. Regardless of size, our customers seek innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs.

We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of tailored solutions, many of which are unavailable from other individual providers.











Deep, Broad and Growing Technology Foundation



June 30, 2015

, we had

approximately 700

product development programs in active development across our businesses.

Long-Duration Relationships Provide Sustainability

Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers’ molecules to yield final dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers’ prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level, to which we apply our expertise in contracting to produce long-duration commercial supply agreements. These agreements typically have initial terms of three to ten years with regular renewals of one to three years (see “Contractual Arrangements” for more detail). Nearly 70% of our fiscal2015advanced delivery technology platform revenues (comprised of our Oral Technologies and Medication Delivery Solutions reporting segments) were covered by such long-term contractual arrangements. We believe this base provides us with a sustainable competitive advantage.



Significant Recent Growth Investments

We have made significant investments over time to establish a global manufacturing network, and today employ5.1 millionsquare feet of manufacturing and laboratory space across five continents. We have invested approximately$577 millionin the last five fiscal years in gross capital expenditures. Growth-related investments in facilities, capacity and capabilities across our businesses have positioned us for future growth in areas aligned with anticipated future demand. Through our focus on operational, quality and regulatory excellence, we drive ongoing and continuous improvements in safety, productivity and reliable supply to customer expectations, which we believe further differentiate us. Our manufacturing network and capabilities allow us the flexibility to reliably supply the changing needs of our customers while consistently meeting their quality, delivery and regulatory compliance expectations.

High Standards of Regulatory Compliance and Operational and Quality Excellence

We operate our plants in accordance with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”), following our own high standards that are consistent with those of many of our large global pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. We have more than1,100employees around the globe focused on quality and regulatory compliance.More than half of our facilities are registered with the FDA, with the remaining facilities registered with other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the European Medicines Agency (the “EMA”). In some cases, facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies. In fiscal2015,we underwent 65 regulatory audits and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed more than 250 regulatory audits. We also undergo nearly 500 customer and internal audits annually. We believe our quality and regulatory track record to be a competitive differentiator for Catalent.



Strong and Experienced Management Team

Most of our executive leadership team has been in place since fiscal 2010. Today, our management team has more than 200 years of combined and diverse experience within the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. With an average of more than 20 years of functional experience, this team possesses deep knowledge and a wide network of industry relationships.











Our Strategy

We are pursuing the following key growth initiatives:

“Follow the Molecule” by Providing Solutions to our Customers across all Phases of the Product Lifecycle

We intend to use our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions across the entire lifecycle of our customers’ products to drive future growth. Our development solutions span the drug development process, starting with our platforms for development of small molecules, biologics and antibody-drug conjugates, to formulation and analytical services, through early stage clinical development and manufacturing of clinical trials supply, to regulatory consulting. Once a molecule is ready for late-stage trials and subsequent commercialization, we provide our customers with a range of advanced delivery technologies and manufacturing expertise that allow them to deliver their molecules to the end-users in appropriate dosage forms. The relationship between a molecule and our advanced delivery technologies typically starts with developing and manufacturing the innovator product, then extends throughout the molecule’s commercial life, including through potential generic launches or over-the-counter (“OTC”) conversion. For prescription products, we are typically the sole and/or exclusive provider, and are reflected in customers’ new drug applications.

Our breadth of solutions gives us multiple entry points into the lifecycle of our customers’ molecules. Our initial commercial opportunity arises during the discovery and development of a molecule, when our development and particle engineering solutions can be applied. Once a product reaches late-stage development, we can provide our customers with drug delivery solutions for the commercialization of their products. We have two additional entry points during the commercial phase: upon loss-of-exclusivity and upon OTC conversion. At these points, we partner with the makers and marketers of both generic and OTC products to provide them with advanced delivery technologies that can be applied to their products through these stages of the product lifecycle. Our revenues from our advanced delivery technologies are primarily driven by volumes and, as a result, the loss of exclusivity may not have a significant negative impact if we continue to work with both branded and generic partners.

An example of this can be found in a leading over-the-counter respiratory brand, which today uses both our Zydis fast dissolve and our Liqui-Gels softgel technologies. We originally began development of the prescription format of this product for our multinational pharmaceutical company partner in 1992 to address specific patient sub-segment needs. After four years of development, we then commercially supplied the prescription Zydis product for six years, and we continue to provide the Zydis form during the switch to OTC status in the United States and other markets in the early 2000s. More recently, we proactively brought a softgel product concept for the brand to the customer, which the customer elected to develop and launch as well. By following this molecule, we have built a strong, 24-year long relationship across multiple formats and markets.

Continue to Grow Through New Product Launches and Projects

We intend to grow by supplementing our existing diverse base of commercialized advanced delivery technology products with new development programs. As ofJune 30, 2015, our product development teams were working onapproximately 700new customer programs. Our base of active development programs has expanded in recent years from growing market demand, as well as from our investments since 2010 to expand our global sales and marketing function; once developed and approved in the future, we expect these programs to add to long-duration commercial revenues under long-term contracts and grow our existing product base.  In the year endedJune 30, 2015, we introduced 165 new products, which is in line with new product introductions in the year endedJune 30, 2014. We also expect that our expanded offerings and capacity such as bioanalytical testing and metered dose inhaler production, our acquisition of Micron Technologies, our expanded presence in Brazil, and our market entry into China will further expand our active advanced delivery technologies development programs, and position us for future growth.Our development solutions business is driven by thousands of projects annually, ranging from individual short-duration analytical projects to multi-year clinical supply programs.











Accelerate Growth with Existing Customers through Increased Penetration and Broadening of Services

While we have a broad presence across the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, we believe there are significant opportunities for additional revenue growth in our existing customer base, by providing advanced delivery solutions for new pipeline or commercial molecules, and by expanding the range and depth of our development solutions used by those customers. Within our top 50 customers, nearly 75% use less than half of our individual offerings. In order to ensure we provide the most value to our customers, we have increased our field sales and marketing force by approximately 20% since fiscal 2009. We have continued to follow a targeted account strategy, designating certain accounts as global accounts, based on current materiality, partnering approach and growth potential. We also designate other accounts as growth accounts, based primarily on partnering approach and potential to become global accounts in the future. In both cases, we assign incremental business development product development resources to identify and pursue new opportunities to partner. Global accounts represented nearly32%of our revenues in fiscal2015, while growth accounts represented approximately 9% of revenues in that same period.

Enter Into and Expand Into Attractive Technologies and Geographies

We have made a number of internal investments in new geographies and markets, including the construction of a state-of-the-art biomanufacturing facility in Wisconsin to serve the growing global biologics development market, the acquisition of particle engineering provider Micron Technologies to extend our drug solubility enhancement capabilities, and the acquisition of the SMARTag™ antibody-drug conjugate technology to address the growing need for improved targeted delivery of therapeutic compounds directly to tumor sites.

In addition, we intend to increase our presence in emerging/high-growth geographies and other markets where we are currently only narrowly represented, including China, Brazil, Japan, and the animal health market. We have made recent investments in such high-growth areas, including the establishment of the first provider in China of end-to-end clinical supply solutions, and a softgel facility in China focused initially on the export of cost-advantaged consumer health products, as well as our acquisition of a Brazilian softgel provider in fiscal 2014.

Capitalize on Our Substantial Technology Platform

We have a broad and diverse technology platform that is supported by approximately1,300patents and patent applications in more than 125 families across advanced delivery technologies, drug and biologics formulation and manufacturing. This platform is supported by substantial know-how and trade secrets that provide us with additional competitive advantages. For example, we have significant softgel fill and formulation databases and substantial softgel regulatory approval expertise, and as a result,approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us.

In addition to resolving product challenges for our customers’ molecules, for more than two decades we have applied our technology platforms and development expertise to proactively develop proof of concept products, whether improved versions of existing drugs, new generic formulations or innovative consumer health products. In the consumer health area, we file product dossiers with regulators in relevant jurisdictions for Catalent-created products, which help contribute sustainable growth to our consumer health business. We expect to continue to seek proactive development and other non-traditional relationships to increase demand for and value realized from our technology platforms. These activities have provided us with opportunities to capture an increased share of end-market value through out-licensing, profit-sharing and other arrangements.



Leverage Existing Infrastructure and Operational Discipline to Drive Profitable Growth

Through our existing infrastructure, including our global network of operating locations and programs, we promote operational discipline and drive margin expansion. With our Lean Six Sigma programs, a global procurement function and conversion cost productivity metrics in place, we have created a culture of functional excellence and cost accountability. We intend to continue to apply this discipline to further leverage our operational network for profitable growth. Since fiscal 2009, we have expanded gross margin by over 600 basis points and Adjusted EBITDA margin by over 400 basis points.











Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Licensing to Build upon our Existing Platform

We operate in highly fragmented markets in both our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions businesses. Within those markets, the five top players represent only 30% and 10% of the total market share, respectively, by revenue. Our broad platform, global infrastructure and diversified customer base provide us with a strong foundation from which to consolidate within these markets and to generate operating leverage through such acquisitions. Since fiscal 2012, we have executedninetransactions, investing more than $700 million, and have demonstrated an ability to efficiently and effectively integrate these acquisitions.

We intend to continue to opportunistically source and execute bolt-on acquisitions within our existing business areas, as well as to undertake transactions that provide us with expansion opportunities within new geographic markets or adjacent market segments. We have a dedicated corporate development team in place to identify these opportunities and have a rigorous and financially disciplined process for evaluating, executing and integrating such acquisitions.



Our Reportable Segments

Our offerings and services are summarized below by reporting segment.

SegmentOfferings and ServicesFiscal 2015Revenue*(Dollars in millions)Oral TechnologiesFormulation, development and manufacturing of prescription and consumer health products using our proprietary softgel, Liqui-Gels, Vegicaps, OptiShell, OptiDose, OptiMelt, OptiPact, and Zydis technologies; as well as other proprietary and conventional oral drug delivery technologies.$1,141.1Medication Delivery SolutionsFormulation, development, and manufacturing for prefilled syringes and other injectable formats; blow-fill-seal unit dose development and manufacturing, including our ADVASEPT technology; and biologic cell line development and manufacturing, including our GPExand SMARTag technologies.$261.9Development & Clinical ServicesManufacturing, packaging, storage, distribution and inventory management for global clinical trials of drugs and biologics; analytical and bioanalytical development and testing; scientific consulting services; development services and manufacturing for conventional oral dose forms; and development and manufacturing of products.$438.8

*Segment Revenue includes inter-segment revenue of$11.0 million.

This table should be read in conjunction with Note17to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Oral Technologies

Our Oral Technologies segment provides advanced oral delivery technologies, including formulation, development and manufacturing of oral dose forms for prescription and consumer health products across all phases of a molecule’s lifecycle. These oral dose forms include softgel, modified release technologies (“MRT”) and immediate release solid oral products. At certain facilities we also provide integrated primary packaging services for the products we manufacture. In fiscal2015, we generated approximately$787.5 millionin revenue from our softgel products and approximately$391.5 millionin revenue from our MRT products (including intra-segment revenue of approximately$37.9 million).

Through our Softgel Technologies business, we provide formulation, development and manufacturing services for soft gelatin capsules, or “softgels,” which we first commercialized in the 1930s and have continually enhanced. We are the market leader in overall softgel manufacturing, and hold the leading market position in the prescription arena. Our principal softgel technologies include traditional softgel capsules (in which the shell is made from animal-derived materials) and Vegicaps and OptiShell capsules (in which the shell is made from vegetable-derived materials), which are used in a broad range of customer products including prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, and vitamins and supplements. Softgel capsules encapsulate liquid, paste or oil-based active compounds in solution or suspension within an outer shell, filling and sealing the capsule simultaneously. We typically perform all encapsulation for a product within one of our softgel facilities, with active ingredients provided by customers or sourced directly by us. Softgels have historically been used to solve formulation challenges or technical issues for a specific drug, to help improve the clinical performance of compounds, to provide important market differentiation, particularly for over-the-counter compounds, and to provide safe handling of hormonal, potent and cytotoxic drugs. We also participate in the softgel vitamin, mineral and supplement business in selected regions around the









world. With the 2001 introduction of our vegetable-derived softgel shell, Vegicaps capsules, consumer health manufacturers have been able to extend the softgel dose form to a broader range of active ingredients and serve patient/consumer populations that were previously inaccessible due to religious, dietary or cultural preferences. In recent years this platform has been extended to pharmaceutical active ingredients via the OptiShell platform. Our Vegicaps and OptiShell capsules are patent protected in most major global markets. Physician and patient studies we have conducted have demonstrated a preference for softgels versus traditional tablet and hard capsule dose forms in terms of ease of swallowing, real or perceived speed of delivery, ability to remove or eliminate unpleasant odor or taste and, for physicians, perceived improved patient adherence with dosing regimens.

Medication Delivery Solutions

Our biologics offerings include our formulation development and cell-line manufacturing based on our advanced and patented GPEx technology, which is used to develop stable, high-yielding mammalian cell lines for both innovator and bio-similar biologic compounds. Our GPEx technology can provide rapid cell line development, high biologics production yields, flexibility and versatility. We believe our development stage SMARTag next-generation antibody-drug conjugate technology will provide more precision targeting for delivery of drugs to tumors or other locations, with improved safety versus existing technologies. In fiscal 2013, we launched our recently completed biologics facility in Madison, Wisconsin, with expanded capability and capacity to produce clinical-scale biologic supplies; combined with offerings from our other businesses and external partners, we now provide the broadest range of technologies and services supporting the development and launch of new biologic entities, biosimilars or biobetters to bring a product from gene to market commercialization, faster.









Development and Clinical Services

Our Development and Clinical Services segment provides manufacturing, packaging, storage and inventory management for drugs and biologics in clinical trials. We offer customers flexible solutions for clinical supplies production, and provide distribution and inventory management support for both simple and complex clinical trials. This includes dose form manufacturing or over-encapsulation where needed; supplying placebos, comparator drug procurement and clinical packages and kits for physicians and patients; inventory management; investigator kit ordering and fulfillment; and return supply reconciliation and reporting. We support trials in all regions of the world through our facilities and distribution network. In fiscal 2013, we established our first clinical supply services facility in China as a joint venture and assumed full ownership in fiscal 2015.  We are the leading provider of integrated development solutions and one of the leading providers of clinical trial supplies and respiratory products.

We also offer analytical chemical and cell-based testing and scientific services, stability testing, respiratory products formulation and manufacturing, regulatory consulting, and bioanalytical testing for biologic products. Our respiratory product capabilities include development and manufacturing services for inhaled products for delivery via metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers and intra-nasal sprays. We also provide formulation development and clinical and commercial manufacturing for conventional and specialty oral dose forms. We provide global regulatory and clinical support services for our customers’ regulatory and clinical strategies during all stages of development. Demand for our offerings is driven by the need for scientific expertise and depth and breadth of services offered, as well as by the reliable supply thereof, including quality, execution and performance.  We acquired Micron Technologies in November 2014, extending our particle engineering capabilities.





Development and Product Supply Chain Solutions

In addition to our proprietary offerings, we are also differentiated in the market by our ability to bring together our development solutions and advanced delivery technologies to offer innovative development and product supply solutions which can be combined or tailored in many ways to enable our customers to take their drugs, biologics and consumer health products from laboratory to market. Once a product is on the market, we can provide comprehensive integrated product supply, from the sourcing of the bulk active ingredient to comprehensive manufacturing and packaging to the testing required for release to distribution. Customer solutions we develop are flexible, scalable and creative, so that they meet the unique needs of both large and emerging companies, and for products of all sizes. We believe that our development and product supply solutions will continue to contribute to our future growth.



Sales and Marketing

Our target customers include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, mid-size, emerging and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and consumer health companies, along with companies in other selected healthcare market segments such as animal health and medical devices and companies in adjacent industries, such as cosmetics. We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal


, we did business with

82 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 19 of the top 20 generics marketers, 40 of the top 50 biologics marketers, and 23 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally

, as well as with nearly

1,000

other customers. Faced with access, pricing and reimbursement pressures as well as other market challenges, large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have increasingly sought partners to enhance the clinical competitiveness of their drugs and biologics and improve the productivity of their research and development activities, while reducing their fixed cost base. Many mid-size, emerging and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, while facing the same pricing and market pressures, have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather to partner with other companies through licensing agreements or outsourcing to access the critical skills, technologies and services required to bring their products to market. Consumer health companies require rapidly developed, innovative dose forms and formulations to keep up in the fast-paced over-the-counter medication and vitamins markets. These market segments are all critically important to our growth, but require distinct solutions, marketing and sales approaches, and market strategy.

We follow a hybrid demand generation organization model, with global and growth account teams offering the full breadth of Catalent’s solutions to selected accounts, and technical specialist teams providing the in-depth technical knowledge and practical experience essential for each individual offering. All business development and field sales representatives ultimately report to a single sales head, and significant ongoing investments are made to enhance their skills and capabilities. Our sales organization currently consists of more than150full-time, experienced sales professionals, supported by inside sales and sales operations. We also have built a dedicated strategic marketing team, providing strategic market and product planning and management for our offerings. As part of our marketing efforts, we participate in major trade shows relevant to the offerings globally and ensure adequate visibility to our offerings and solutions through a comprehensive print and on-line advertising and publicity program. We believe that Catalent is a strong brand with high overall awareness in our established markets and target customers, and that our brand identity has become a competitive advantage for us.









Global Accounts

We manage selected accounts globally due to their substantial current business and growth potential by establishing strategic plans, goals and targets. We recorded approximately32%of our total revenue in fiscal2015from these global accounts. Each global account is assigned a dedicated business development professional with substantial industry experience. These account leaders, along with the leadership of the sales and marketing function members of the executive leadership team, are responsible for managing and extending the overall account relationship. Growing sales, profitability, and increasing account penetration are key goals and are directly linked to compensation. Account leaders also work closely with the rest of the sales organization to ensure alignment around critical priorities for the accounts.



Emerging, Specialty and Virtual Accounts

Emerging, specialty and virtual pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are expected to be critical drivers of industry growth globally. Historically, many of these companies have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather partner with other companies to produce their products. We expect them to continue to do so in the future, providing a critical source for future integrated solutions demand. We expect to continue to increase our penetration of geographic clusters of emerging companies in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. We regularly use active pipeline and product screening and customer targeting to identify the optimal candidates for partnering based on product profiles, funding status, and relationships, to ensure that our technical sales specialists and field sales representatives develop custom solutions designed to address the specific needs of customers in the market.



Contractual Arrangements

We generally enter into a broad range of contractual arrangements with our customers, including agreements with respect to feasibility, development, supply, licenses, and quality. The terms of these contracts vary significantly depending on the offering and customer requirements. Some of our agreements may include a variety of revenue arrangements such as fee-for-service, royalties, profit-sharing and fixed fees. We generally secure pricing and contract mechanisms in our supply agreements that allow for periodic resetting of pricing terms and, in some cases, these agreements provide for our ability to renegotiate pricing in the event of certain price increases for the raw materials utilized in the products we make. Our typical supply agreements include indemnification from our customers for product liability and intellectual property matters and caps on our contractual liabilities, subject in each case to negotiated exclusions. In addition, our manufacturing supply agreement terms range from three to ten years with regular renewals of one to three years, although some of our agreements are terminable upon much shorter notice periods, such as 30 or 90 days. For our development solutions offerings, we may enter into master service agreements, which provide for standardized terms and conditions and make it easier and faster for customers with multiple development needs to access our offerings.



Backlog

While we generally have long-term supply agreements that provide for a revenue stream over a period of years, our backlog represents, as of a point in time, future service revenues from work not yet completed. For our Oral Technologies and Medication Delivery Solutions segments, backlog represents firm orders for manufacturing services and includes minimum volumes, where applicable. For our Development and Clinical Services segment, backlog represents estimated future service revenues from work not yet completed under signed contracts. Using these methods of reporting backlog, as ofJune 30, 2015, our backlog was approximately $827.6 million, as compared to approximately$782.1 millionas ofJune 30, 2014, including approximately $417.7 million and$373.8 million, respectively, related to our Development and Clinical Services segment. We expect to recognize approximately 77% of revenue from the backlog in existence as ofJune 30, 2015by the completion of the fiscal year ending June 30,2016.

To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. If a customer cancels an order, we may be reimbursed for the costs we have incurred. For orders that are placed inside a contractual firm period, we generally have a contractual right to payment in the event of cancellation. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the timing and order pattern of our customers who often seek to manage their level of inventory on hand. Because of customer ordering patterns, our backlog reported for certain periods may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future results.



Manufacturing Capabilities

We operate manufacturing facilities, development centers and sales offices throughout the world. We havethirty-onefacilities on five continents with5.1 millionsquare feet of manufacturing, lab and related space. Our manufacturing capabilities include the full suite of competencies relevant to support each site’s activities, including regulatory, quality assurance and in-house validation.










We operate our plants in accordance with cGMP.More than half of our facilities are registered with the FDA, with the remaining facilities being registered with other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the EMA. In some cases certain facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies.

We have invested approximately$385.9 millionof cash outflows in our manufacturing facilities since fiscal2013through improvements and expansions in our facilities, including approximately$141.0 millionon capital expenditures in fiscal2015. We believe that our facilities and equipment are in good condition, are well maintained and are able to operate at or above present levels for the foreseeable future, in all material respects.

Our manufacturing operations are focused on employee health and safety, regulatory compliance, operational excellence, continuous improvement, and process standardization across the organization. In fiscal2015, we achieved approximately 98% on-time shipment delivery versus customer request date across our network as a result of this focus. Our manufacturing operations are structured around an enterprise management philosophy and methodology that utilizes principles and tools common to a number of quality management programs, including Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing.



Raw Materials

We work very closely with our suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining excellence in material quality and reliability, and we have an active and effective supplier audit program. We continually evaluate alternate sources of supply, although we do not frequently pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources for key raw materials due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships, the reliability of our current supplier base and the time and expense associated with the regulatory process. Although a change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment by us in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to the performance of our products or incorporate specialized material such as gelatin, we do not believe that the loss of any existing supply arrangement would have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Risk Factors-Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry-Our future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs, availability, and suitability of the components of the products we manufacture, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients, purchased components, and raw materials.”



Competition

We compete on several fronts both domestically and internationally, including with other companies that offer advanced delivery technologies or development services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and consumer health companies based in North America, South America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. We also may compete with the internal operations of those pharmaceutical, biotechnology and consumer health manufacturers that choose to source these services internally, where possible.



Competition is driven by proprietary technologies and know-how (where relevant), consistency of operational performance, quality, price, value and speed. While we do have competitors who compete with us in our individual offerings, we do not believe we have competition from any directly comparable companies.

Research and Development Costs

Our research activities are primarily directed toward the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements.  Costs incurred in connection with the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements are recorded within selling, general, and administrative expenses. Such research and development costs included in selling,








general, and administrative expenses amounted to$12.2 million,$17.5 millionand$14.5 millionfor the fiscal years endedJune 30, 2015,June 30, 2014andJune 30, 2013, respectively.  Costs incurred in connection with research and development services we provide to customers and services performed in support of the commercial manufacturing process for customers are recorded within cost of sales. Such research and development costs included in cost of sales amounted to$41.3 million,$34.0 millionand$35.0 millionfor the fiscal years endedJune 30, 2015,June 30, 2014andJune 30, 2013, respectively.



Employees

As ofJune 30, 2015, we had approximately8,700employees inthirty-onefacilities on five continents:tenfacilities are in the United States, with certain employees at one facility being represented by a labor organization with their terms and conditions of employment being subject to a collective bargaining agreement. National works councils and/or labor organizations are active at alltwelveof our European facilities consistent with labor environments/laws in European countries. Similar relationships with labor organizations or national works councils exist in our plants in Argentina, Brazil, and Australia. Our management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory.



North AmericaEuropeSouth AmericaAsia PacificTotalApproximate Number of Employees3,6003,5009007008,700



Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of know-how, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect a number of our offerings, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to our ongoing operations. Certain of our operations and products are under intellectual property licenses from third parties, and in certain instances we license our technology to third parties. We also have a long track record of innovation across our lines of business and, to further encourage active innovation, we have developed incentive compensation systems linked to patent filings and other recognition and reward programs for scientists and non-scientists alike.

We have applied in the United States and certain foreign countries for registration of a number of trademarks, service marks and patents, some of which have been registered and issued, and also hold common law rights in various trademarks and service marks. We hold approximately1,300patents and patent applications worldwide in advanced drug delivery and biologics formulations and technologies, and manufacturing and other areas.

We hold patents and license rights relating to certain aspects of our formulations, nutritional and pharmaceutical dosage forms, mammalian cell engineering, and sterile manufacturing services. We also hold patents relating to certain processes and products. We have a number of pending patent applications in the United States and certain foreign countries, and intend to pursue additional patents as appropriate. We have enforced and will continue to enforce our intellectual property rights in the United States and worldwide.

We do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.



Regulatory Matters

The manufacture, distribution and marketing of the healthcare products of our customers are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA, other United States (“U.S.”) governmental authorities and foreign regulatory authorities. Certain of our subsidiaries are required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and must comply with the operating and security standards of, the Drug Enforcement Agency (the “DEA”), the FDA, the Department of Health and Human Services (the “DHHS”), the European Union (the “EU”) member states and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale.



In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, the Controlled Substances Act and comparable state and foreign regulations in certain of their activities.









Laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of healthcare products also exist in most other countries where our subsidiaries conduct business. In addition our international manufacturing operations are subject to local certification requirements, and must comply with domestic and/or foreign good manufacturing practices and quality system regulations established by the FDA and/or applicable foreign regulatory authorities.

We are also subject to various federal, state, local, foreign and transnational laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, U.S. and international import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the cross-border transit of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We are also subject to various other laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records.

The costs associated with complying with the various applicable federal regulations, as well as state, local, foreign and transnational regulations, could be significant and the failure to comply with such legal requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Risk Factors-Risks Relating toFailure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition,” for additional discussion of the costs associated with complying with the various regulations.

In fiscal2015,we underwent 65 regulatory audits and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed more than 250 regulatory audits, with more than 50% resulting in no reported observations.



Quality Assurance

We are committed to ensuring and maintaining the highest standard of regulatory compliance while providing high quality products to our customers. To meet these commitments, we have developed and implemented a Catalent-wide quality management system throughout the organization. We have more than1,100employees around the globe focusing on quality and regulatory compliance. Our senior management team is actively involved in setting quality policies, standards and internal position papers as well as managing internal and external quality performance. Our quality assurance department provides quality leadership and supervises our quality systems programs. An internal audit program monitors compliance with applicable regulations, standards and internal policies. In addition, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other equivalent local, state and foreign regulatory authorities and customers. All FDA, DEA and other regulatory inspectional observations have been resolved or are on track to be completed at the prescribed timeframe provided in response to the agency. We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the regulations under which our facilities are governed.



Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and equivalent state, local and foreign regulatory agencies in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. Our manufacturing facilities use, in varying degrees, hazardous substances in their processes. These substances include, among others, chlorinated solvents, and in the past chlorinated solvents were used at one or more of our facilities, including a number we no longer own or operate. As at our current facilities, contamination at such formerly owned or operated properties can result and has resulted in liability to us, for which we have recorded appropriate reserves as needed.  We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the environment, health and safety regulations applicable to our facilities.





Available Information



We file annual, quarterly and special reports and other information with the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available to the public on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Those filings are also available to the public on, or accessible through, our website for free via the “Investors” section at www.catalent.com.



The information we file with the SEC or contained on or accessible through our corporate website or any other website that we may maintain is not incorporated by reference and is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also read and copy, at SEC prescribed rates, any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 to obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.











