ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Overview

We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer health products. Our oral, injectable, and respiratory delivery technologies address the full diversity of the pharmaceutical industry including small molecules, large molecule biologics and consumer health products. Through our extensive capabilities and deep expertise in product development, we help our customers take products to market faster, including nearly half of new drug products approved by the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") in the last decade. Our advanced delivery technology platforms, broad and deep intellectual property, and proven formulation, manufacturing and regulatory expertise enable our customers to develop more products and better treatments. Across both development and delivery, our commitment to reliably supply our customers’ needs is the foundation for the value we provide; annually, we produce more than 70 billion doses for nearly 7,000 customer products. We believe that through our investments in growth-enabling capacity and capabilities, our ongoing focus on operational and quality excellence, the sales of existing customer products, the introduction of new customer products, our patents and innovation activities, and our entry into new markets, we will continue to benefit from attractive and differentiated margins, and realize the growth potential from these areas.

Since 2010, we have made investments to expand our sales and marketing activities, leading to growth in the number of active development programs in both strategic platforms for our customers. This has further enhanced our extensive, long-duration relationships and long-term contracts with a broad and diverse range of industry-leading customers. In the fiscal year ended

June 30, 2014

, we did business with

83 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 19 of the top 20 generics marketers, 38 of the top 50 biologics marketers, and 24 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally

. Selected key customers include Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Novartis, Roche, Actavis and Teva. We have many long-standing relationships with our customers, particularly in advanced delivery technologies, where we tend to follow a prescription molecule through all phases of its lifecycle, from the original brand prescription, development and launch to generics or over-the-counter switch. A prescription pharmaceutical product relationship with an innovator will often last for nearly two decades, extending from mid-clinical development through the end of the product’s life cycle. We serve customers who require innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs. Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers’ molecules to yield final dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers’ prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level.

We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, intellectual property, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach, and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of business and product solutions that can be customized to fit their individual needs. Today we employ approximately 1,000 scientists and technicians and hold approximately 1,300 patents and patent applications in advanced delivery, drug and biologics formulation and manufacturing. The aim of our offerings is to allow our customers to bring more products to market faster, and develop and market differentiated new products that improve patient outcomes. We believe our leading market position, significant global scale, and diversity of customers, offerings, regulatory categories, products, and geographies reduce our exposure to potential strategic and product shifts within the industry.

We provide a number of proprietary, differentiated technologies, products and service offerings to our customers across our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions platforms. The core technologies within our advanced delivery technologies platform include softgel capsules, our Zydis oral dissolving tablets, blow-fill-seal unit dose liquids and a range of other oral, injectable and respiratory technologies. The technologies and service offerings within our development solutions platform span the drug development process, ranging from the Optiform, GPEx and SMARTag platforms for development of small molecules, biologics and antibody-drug conjugates, or ADCs, respectively, to formulation, analytical services, early stage clinical development, clinical trials supply and regulatory consulting. Our offerings serve a critical need in the development and manufacturing of difficult to formulate products across a number of product types.

Our technologies and services have been assembled over more than 80 years through internal development, strategic alliances, in-licensing and acquisitions, starting with our softgel capsule technology which was initially introduced in the 1930s and has been continuously enhanced. We have continued to internally expand our technologies through the introduction of numerous new technologies including launches since fiscal 2013 such as OptiShell, OptiDose, OptiMelt, Zydis Nano and Zydis Bio. To extend the reach of our technologies and services, we have also formed a number of active partnerships, including recent partnerships with BASF (Germany), CEVEC (Germany), CTC Bio (South Korea) and ShangPharma Corporation (China), and have active relationships with research universities around the world. We have also augmented our portfolio through five acquisitions over the past three years, including significantly expanding the scale of our development and clinical services business through the acquisition of Aptuit CTS business in 2012. We believe our own internal innovation, supplemented by current and future external









partnerships and acquisitions, will continue to strengthen and extend our leadership positions in the delivery and development of drugs, biologics and consumer health products.

For the fiscal year endedJune 30, 2014, our revenues were$1,827.7 millionand Adjusted EBITDA was$432.3 million.  For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, see “Historical and Adjusted EBITDA.”



History

Catalent was formed in April 2007, when we were acquired by affiliates of Blackstone. Prior to that, we formed the core of the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services (“PTS”) segment of Cardinal Health ("Cardinal"). PTS was in turn created by Cardinal through a series of acquisitions, with the intent of creating the world’s leading outsourcing provider of specialized, market-leading solutions to the global pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry. In 1998, R.P. Scherer Corporation, the market leader in advanced oral drug delivery technologies, was acquired by Cardinal. In 1999, Cardinal acquired Automatic Liquid Packaging, Inc., the market leader in blow-fill-seal technology for respiratory treatments, ophthalmics, and other areas. In 2001, Cardinal purchased International Processing Corporation, a provider of oral solid dose forms. In 2002, PTS entered the fee-for-service development solutions market with the acquisition of Magellan Labs, a leader in analytical sciences services for the U.S. pharmaceuticals industry. Finally, in 2003, Cardinal acquired Intercare Group PLC, through which we expanded our European injectable manufacturing network. During the period from 1996 through 2006 we also made other selective acquisitions of businesses, facilities and technologies in all segments, including our legacy pharmaceutical commercial packaging segment.

Subsequent to our 2007 acquisition, we have regularly reviewed our portfolio of offerings and operations in the context of our strategic growth plan. As a result of those ongoing assessments, since 2007 we have sold five businesses, including two injectable vial facilities in the United States, a French oral dose facility, a printed components business (with four facilities), and in fiscal 2012 our North American commercial packaging business. We have also consolidated operations at four other facilities, integrating them into the remaining facility network since fiscal 2009.

In fiscal 2012, we acquired the Aptuit CTS business, combining it into our existing clinical service offerings. We also purchased the remaining 49% minority share ownership of our German softgel subsidiary. Further, in calendar 2013 we entered into two joint ventures in China, which provided majority control of both a softgel manufacturer and a newly established clinical supply business, and acquired a softgel manufacturing business in Brazil.

Catalent, Inc. (formerly known as PTS Holdings Corp.) is a holding company that has owned PTS Intermediate Holdings LLC since our acquisition by Blackstone in 2007. PTS Intermediate Holdings LLC owns Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc., which is a holding company that owns, directly or indirectly, all of our operating subsidiaries.



Our Competitive Strengths

Leading Provider of Advanced Delivery Technologies and Development Solutions

We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer health products. In the last decade, we have earned revenue with respect to nearly half of the NCE products approved by the FDA, and over the past three years with respect to 80% of the top 200 largest-selling compounds globally. With approximately 1,000 scientists and technicians worldwide and approximately 1,300 patents and patent applications, our expertise is in providing differentiated technologies and solutions which help our customers bring more products and better treatments to market faster. For example in the high value area of NCEs, approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us.

Diversified Operating Platform

We are diversified by virtue of our geographic scope, our large customer base, the extensive range of products we produce, our broad service offerings, and our ability to provide solutions at nearly every stage of product lifecycles. We produce nearly 7,000 distinct items across multiple categories, including brand and generic prescription drugs and biologics, over-the-counter, consumer health and veterinary products, medical devices and diagnostics. In fiscal2014, our top 20 products represented approximately 25% of total revenue, with no single customer accounting for greater than 10% of revenue and with no individual product greater than 3%. We serve approximately 1,000 customers in approximately 80 countries, with a majority of our fiscal2014revenues coming from outside the United States. This diversity, combined with long product lifecycles and close customer relationships, has contributed to the stability of our business. It has also allowed us to reduce our exposure to potential strategic, customer and product shifts as well as to payor-driven pricing pressures experienced by our branded drug and biologic customers.









Longstanding, Extensive Relationships with Blue Chip Customers

We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal2014, we did business with83 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 19 of the top 20 generics marketers, 38 of the top 50 biologics marketers, and 24 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally, as well as with nearly a thousand other customers, including emerging and specialty companies, which are often more reliant on outside partners as a result of their more virtual business models. Regardless of size, our customers seek innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs. We believe our customers value us because our depth of advanced delivery technologies and development services, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of tailored solutions, many of which are unavailable from other individual providers.



Deep, Broad and Growing Technology Foundation

June 30, 2014

, we had more than 450 product development programs in active development across our businesses.

Long-Duration Relationships Provide Sustainability

Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers’ molecules to yield final dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers’ prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level, to which we apply our expertise in contracting to produce long-duration commercial supply agreements. These agreements typically have initial terms of three to ten years with regular renewals of one to three years (see “Contractual Arrangements” for more detail). Nearly 70% of our fiscal2014advanced delivery technology platform revenues (comprised of our oral technologies and medication delivery solutions reporting segments) were covered by such long-term contractual arrangements. We believe this base provides us with a sustainable competitive advantage.



Significant Recent Growth Investments

We have made significant past investments to establish a global manufacturing network, and today hold4.8 millionsquare feet of manufacturing and laboratory space across five continents. We have invested approximately$506.9 millionin the last five fiscal years in capital expenditures. Growth-related investments in facilities, capacity and capabilities across our businesses have positioned us for future growth in areas aligned with anticipated future demand. Through our focus on operational, quality and regulatory excellence, we drive ongoing and continuous improvements in safety, productivity and reliable supply to customer expectations, which we believe further differentiate us. Our manufacturing network and capabilities allow us the flexibility to reliably supply the changing needs of our customers while consistently meeting their quality, delivery and regulatory compliance expectations.

High Standards of Regulatory Compliance and Operational and Quality Excellence

We operate our plants in accordance with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”), following our own high standards which are consistent with those of many of our large global pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. We have approximately 1,000 employees around the globe focused on quality and regulatory compliance. More than half of our facilities are registered with the FDA, with the remaining facilities registered with other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”). In some cases, facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies. In fiscal2014,we underwent 48 regulatory audits and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed 239 regulatory audits. We also undergo nearly 500









customer and internal audits annually. We believe our quality and regulatory track record to be a competitive differentiator for Catalent.



Strong and Experienced Management Team

Our executive leadership team has been transformed since 2009, with most of the team in place since fiscal 2010. Today, our management team has more than 200 years of combined and diverse experience within the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. With an average of more than 20 years of functional experience, this team possesses deep knowledge and a wide network of industry relationships.



Our Strategy

We are pursuing the following key growth initiatives:

“Follow the Molecule” by Providing Solutions to our Customers across all Phases of the Product Lifecycle

We intend to use our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions across the entire lifecycle of our customers’ products to drive future growth. Our development solutions span the drug development process, starting with our platforms for development of small molecules, biologics and antibody-drug conjugates, to formulation and analytical services, through early stage clinical development and manufacturing of clinical trials supply, to regulatory consulting. Once a molecule is ready for late-stage trials and subsequent commercialization, we provide our customers with a range of advanced delivery technologies and manufacturing expertise that allow them to deliver their molecules to the end-users in appropriate dosage forms. The relationship between a molecule and our advanced delivery technologies typically starts with developing and manufacturing the innovator product then extends throughout the molecule’s commercial life, including through potential generic launches or over-the-counter (“OTC”) conversion. For prescription products, we are typically the sole and/or exclusive provider, and are reflected in customers’ new drug applications.

Our breadth of solutions gives us multiple entry points into the lifecycle of our customers’ molecules. Our initial commercial opportunity arises during the discovery and development of a molecule, when our development solutions can be applied. Once a product reaches late-stage development, we can provide our customers with drug delivery solutions for the commercialization of their products. We then have two commercial additional entry points; upon loss-of-exclusivity and upon OTC conversion. At these points, we partner with both generic and OTC pharmaceutical manufacturers to provide them with advanced delivery technologies that can be applied to their products through these stages of the product lifecycle. Our revenues from our advanced delivery technologies are primarily driven by volumes and, as a result, the loss of exclusivity events may not have a significant negative impact if we continue to work with both branded and generic partners.

An example of this can be found in a leading over-the-counter respiratory brand, which today uses both our Zydis fast dissolve and our Liqui-Gels softgel technologies. We originally began development of the prescription format of this product for our partner multinational pharmaceutical company in 1992 to address specific patient sub-segment needs. After four years of development, we then commercially supplied the prescription Zydis product for six years, and continued to provide the Zydis form as it switched to OTC status in the United States in the early 2000s. More recently, we proactively brought a softgel product concept for the brand to the customer, which the customer elected to develop and launch as well. By following this molecule, we have built a strong, 22-year long relationship across multiple formats and markets.

Continue to Grow Through New Product Launches and Projects

We intend to grow by supplementing our existing diverse base of commercialized advanced delivery technology products with new development programs. As ofJune 30, 2014, our product development teams were working on approximately 480 new customer programs. Our base of active development programs has expanded in recent years from growing market demand, as well as from our investments since 2010 to expand our global sales and marketing function; once developed and approved in the future, we expect these programs to add to long-duration commercial revenues under long-term contracts and grow our existing product base.  In the year endedJune 30, 2014, we introduced 175 new products, an increase of more than 80% from the 97 new product introductions in the year endedJune 30, 2013. We also expect that our expanded offerings and capacity such as bioanalytical testing and metered dose inhaler production, our expanded presence in Brazil, and our market entry into China will further expand our active advanced delivery technologies development programs, and position us for future growth.Our development solutions business is driven by thousands of projects annually, ranging from individual short-duration analytical projects to multi-year clinical supply programs.









Accelerate Growth with Existing Customers through Increased Penetration and Broadening of Services

While we have a broad presence across the entire biopharmaceutical industry, we believe there are significant opportunities for additional revenue growth in our existing customer base, by providing advanced delivery solutions for new pipeline or commercial molecules, and by expanding the range and depth of development solutions used by those customers. Within our top 50 customers, nearly 75% utilize less than half of our individual offerings. In order to ensure we provide the most value to our customers, we have increased our field force by approximately 20% since fiscal 2009. We have continued to follow a targeted account strategy, designating certain accounts as global accounts, based on current materiality, partnering approach and growth potential. We have also begun to designate other accounts as growth accounts, based primarily on partnering approach and potential to become global accounts in the future. In both cases, we assign incremental business development and research and development("R&D") resources to identify and pursue new opportunities to partner. Global accounts represented nearly 37% of our revenues in fiscal2014, while growth accounts represented approximately 6% of revenues in that same period.

Enter into and Expand in Attractive Technologies and Geographies

We have made a number of internal investments in new geographies and markets, including the construction of a state-of-the-art biomanufacturing facility in Wisconsin to serve the growing global biologics development market, and the in-licensing of the SMARTag antibody-drug conjugate technology to address the growing need for improved targeted delivery of therapeutic compounds directly to tumor sites.

In addition, we intend to proactively enter into emerging/high-growth geographies and other markets where we are currently only narrowly represented, including, but not limited to, China, Brazil, Japan and the animal health market. We have made recent investments in such high-growth areas, including the formation of a China-based clinical supplies joint venture with ShangPharma Corporation, the first provider in China of end-to-end clinical supply solutions, a softgel joint venture in China focused initially on the export of cost-advantaged consumer health products, as well as our recent acquisition of a Brazilian softgel provider.

Capitalize on our Substantial Technology Platform

We have a broad and diverse technology platform that is supported approximately 1,300 patents and patent applications in 106 families across advanced delivery technologies, drug and biologics formulation and manufacturing. This platform is supported by substantial know-how and trade secrets that provide us with additional competitive advantages. For example, we have significant softgel fill and formulation databases and substantial softgel regulatory approval expertise, and as a result, more than 90% of NCE softgels approved in the last 25 years by the FDA have been developed and launched by us.

In addition to resolving product challenges for our customers’ molecules, for more than two decades we have applied our technology platforms and development expertise to proactively develop proof of concept products, whether improved versions of existing drugs, new generic formulations or innovative consumer health products. In the consumer health area, we file product dossiers with regulators in relevant jurisdictions for Catalent-created products, which help contribute sustainable growth to our consumer health business. We expect to continue to seek proactive development and other non-traditional relationships to increase demand for and value realized from our technology platforms. These activities have provided us with opportunities to capture an increased share of end-market value through out-licensing, profit-sharing and other arrangements.



Leverage Existing Infrastructure and Operational Discipline to Drive Profitable Growth

Through our existing infrastructure, including our global network of operating locations and programs, we promote operational discipline and drive margin expansion. With our Lean Six Sigma programs, a global procurement function and conversion cost productivity metrics in place, we have created a culture of functional excellence and cost accountability. We intend to continue to apply this discipline to further leverage our operational network for profitable growth. Since fiscal 2009, we have expanded gross margin by over 500 basis points and Adjusted EBITDA margin by over 300 basis points.

Pursue Strategic Acquisitions and Licensing to Build upon our Existing Platform

We operate in highly fragmented markets in both our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions businesses. Within those markets, the five top players represent only 30% and 10% of the total market share, respectively, by revenue. Our broad platform, global infrastructure and diversified customer base provide us with a strong foundation from which to consolidate within these markets and to generate operating leverage through such acquisitions. Over the past four fiscal years, we have executed five transactions investing more than $570 million and have demonstrated an ability to efficiently and effectively integrate these acquisitions.









We intend to continue to opportunistically source and execute bolt-on acquisitions within our existing business areas, as well as to undertake transactions that provide us with expansion opportunities within new geographic markets or adjacent market segments. We have a dedicated business development team in place to identify these opportunities and have a rigorous and financially disciplined process for evaluating, executing and integrating such acquisitions.



Our Reportable Segments

Our offerings and services are summarized below by reporting segment.



SegmentOfferings and ServicesFiscal 2014Revenue*(Dollars in millions)Oral TechnologiesFormulation, development and manufacturing of prescription and consumer health products using our proprietary softgel, Liqui-Gels, Vegicaps, OptiShell, OptiDose, OptiMelt, and Zydis technologies; as well as other proprietary and conventional oral drug delivery technologies.$1,180.1Medication Delivery SolutionsFormulation, development, and manufacturing for prefilled syringes and other injectable formats; blow-fill-seal unit dose development and manufacturing; and biologic cell line development and manufacturing, including our GPEx and SMARTag technologies.$246.1Development & Clinical ServicesManufacturing, packaging, storage, distribution and inventory management for global clinical trials of drugs and biologics; analytical and bioanalytical development and testing; scientific and regulatory consulting services; development services and manufacturing for conventional oral dose forms; and development and manufacturing of products.$412.2

*Segment Revenue includes inter-segment revenue of$10.7 million.

This table should be read in conjunction with Note16to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Oral Technologies

Our Oral Technologies segment provides advanced oral delivery technologies, including formulation, development and manufacturing of oral dose forms for prescription and consumer health products across all phases of a molecule’s lifecycle. These oral dose forms include softgel, modified release technologies (“MRT”) and immediate release solid oral products. At certain facilities we also provide integrated primary packaging services for the products we manufacture. In fiscal2014, we generated approximately$857.5 millionin revenue from our softgel products and approximately$358.2 millionin revenue from our MRT products (including intra-segment revenue of approximately$35.6 million).









improved patient adherence with dosing regimens.

Through our Modified Release Technologies business we provide formulation, development and manufacturing services for fast-dissolve tablets and both proprietary and conventional controlled release products. We launched our orally dissolving tablet business in 1986 with the introduction of Zydis tablets, a unique oral dosage form that is freeze-dried in its package, can be swallowed without water, and typically dissolves in the mouth in less than three seconds. Most often used for indications, drugs and patient groups that can benefit from rapid oral disintegration, the Zydis technology is utilized in a wide range of products and indications, including treatments for a variety of central nervous system-related conditions such as migraines, Parkinson’s Disease, schizophrenia, and pain relief. Zydis tablets continue to be used in new ways by our customers as we extend the application of the technology to new categories, such as for immunotherapies, vaccines and biologics delivery. More recently we have added three new technology platforms to the Modified Release Technologies business portfolio, including the highly flexible OptiDose tab-in-tab technology, already commercially proven in Japan; the OptiMelt hot melt extrusion technology; and the development stage LyoPan oral dissolving tablet technology. We plan to continue to expand the development pipeline of customer products for all of our Modified Release technologies.

Representative Oral Technologies business customers include Pfizer, Novartis, Merck, GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson and Actavis.

Medication Delivery Solutions

Our biologics offerings include our formulation development and cell-line manufacturing based on our advanced and patented GPEx technology, which is used to develop stable, high-yielding mammalian cell lines for both innovator and bio-similar biologic compounds. Our GPEx technology can provide rapid cell line development, high biologics production yields, flexibility and versatility. We believe our development stage SMARTag next-generation antibody-drug conjugate technology will provide more precision targeting for delivery of drugs to tumors or other locations, with improved safety versus existing technologies. In fiscal 2013, we launched our recently completed biologics facility in Madison, Wisconsin, with expanded capability and capacity to produce clinical scale biologic supplies; combined with offerings from other businesses of Catalent and external partners, we now provide the broadest range of technologies and services supporting the development and launch of new biologic entities, biosimilars or biobetters to bring a product from gene to market commercialization, faster.

Development and Clinical Services

Our Development and Clinical Services segment provides manufacturing, packaging, storage and inventory management for drugs and biologics in clinical trials. We offer customers flexible solutions for clinical supplies production, and provide distribution and inventory management support for both simple and complex clinical trials. This includes dose form manufacturing or over-encapsulation where needed; supplying placebos, comparator drug procurement and clinical packages and kits for physicians and patients; inventory management; investigator kit ordering and fulfillment; and return supply reconciliation and reporting. We support trials in all regions of the world through our facilities and distribution network. In fiscal 2012 we substantially expanded this business via the Aptuit CTS business acquisition in February 2012, and in fiscal 2013 formed a joint venture with









ShangPharma Corporation to expand our clinical supply services network into China. We are the leading provider of integrated development solutions and one of the leading providers of clinical trial supplies and respiratory products.

We also offer analytical chemical and cell-based testing and scientific services, stability testing, respiratory products formulation and manufacturing, regulatory consulting, and bioanalytical testing for biologic products. Our respiratory product capabilities include development and manufacturing services for inhaled products for delivery via metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers and nasal sprays. We also provide formulation development and clinical and commercial manufacturing for conventional and specialty oral dose forms. We provide global regulatory and clinical support services for our customers’ regulatory and clinical strategies during all stages of development. Demand for our offerings is driven by the need for scientific expertise and depth and breadth of services offered, as well as by the reliable supply thereof, including quality, execution and performance.





Development and Product Supply Chain Solutions

In addition to our proprietary offerings, we are also differentiated in the market by our ability to bring together our development solutions and advanced delivery technologies to offer innovative development and product supply solutions which can be combined or tailored in many ways to enable our customers to take their drugs, biologics and consumer health products from laboratory to market. Once a product is on the market, we can provide comprehensive integrated product supply, from the sourcing of the bulk drug to comprehensive manufacturing and packaging to the testing required for release to distribution. Customer solutions we develop are flexible, scalable and creative, so that they meet the unique needs of both large and emerging companies, and for products of all sizes. We believe that our development and product supply solutions will continue to contribute to our future growth.



Sales and Marketing

Our target customers include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, mid-size, emerging and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and consumer health companies, along with companies in other selected healthcare market segments such as animal health and medical devices. We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal


, we did business with

83 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 19 of the top 20 generics marketers, 38 of the top 50 biologics marketers, and 24 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally

, as well as with nearly a thousand other customers. Faced with access, pricing and reimbursement pressures as well as other market challenges, large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have increasingly sought partners to enhance the clinical competitiveness of their drugs and biologics and improve their R&D productivity, while reducing their fixed cost base. Many mid-size, emerging and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, while facing the same pricing and market pressures, have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather to partner with other companies-through licensing agreements or outsourcing to access the critical skills, technologies and services required to bring their products to market. Consumer health companies require rapidly-developed, innovative dose forms and formulations to keep up in the fast-paced over-the-counter medication and vitamins markets. These market segments are all critically important to our growth, but require distinct solutions, marketing and sales approaches, and market strategy.

We follow a hybrid demand generation organization model, with global and growth account teams offering the full breadth of Catalent’s solutions to selected accounts, and technical specialist teams providing the in-depth technical knowledge and practical experience essential for each individual offering. All business development and field sales representatives ultimately report to a single sales head, and significant ongoing investments are made to enhance their skills and capabilities. Our sales organization currently consists of more than 150 full-time, experienced sales professionals, supported by inside sales and sales operations. We also have built a dedicated strategic marketing team, providing strategic market and product planning and management for our offerings. Supporting these marketing plans, we participate in major trade shows relevant to the offerings globally and ensure adequate visibility to our offerings and solutions through a comprehensive print and on-line advertising and publicity program. We believe that, since 2009, we have built Catalent into a strong brand with high overall awareness in our established markets and target customers, and that our brand identity has become a competitive advantage for us.

Global Accounts

We manage selected accounts globally due to their materiality and growth potential by establishing strategic plans, goals and targets. We recorded approximately 37% of our total revenue in fiscal2014from these global accounts. These accounts are assigned a dedicated business development professional with substantial industry experience. These account leaders, along with members of the executive leadership team, are responsible for managing and extending the overall account relationship. Growing sales, profitability, and increasing account penetration are key goals and are directly linked to compensation. Account leaders also work closely with the rest of the sales organization to ensure alignment around critical priorities for the accounts.



Emerging, Specialty and Virtual Accounts

Emerging, specialty and virtual pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are expected to be a critical driver of industry growth globally. Historically, many of these companies have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather partner with other









companies to produce their products. We expect them to continue to do so in the future, providing a critical source for future integrated solution demand. We expect to continue to increase our penetration of geographic clusters of emerging companies in North America, Europe, South America and Asia. We regularly use active pipeline and product screening and customer targeting to identify the optimal candidates for partnering based on product profiles, funding status, and relationships, to ensure that our technical sales specialists and field sales representatives develop custom solutions designed to address the specific needs of customers in the market.



Contractual Arrangements

We generally enter into a broad range of contractual arrangements with our customers, including agreements with respect to feasibility, development, supply, licenses, and quality. The terms of these contracts vary significantly depending on the offering and customer requirements. Some of our agreements may include a variety of revenue arrangements such as fee-for-service, royalties, profit-sharing and fixed fees. We generally secure pricing and contract mechanisms in our supply agreements that allow for periodic resetting of pricing terms and, in some cases, these agreements provide for our ability to renegotiate pricing in the event of certain price increases for the raw materials utilized in the products we make. Our typical supply agreements include indemnification from our customers for product liability and intellectual property matters and caps on our contractual liabilities, subject in each case to negotiated exclusions. In addition, our manufacturing supply agreement terms range from three to ten years with regular renewals of one to three years, although some of our agreements are terminable upon much shorter notice periods, such as 30 or 90 days. For our development solutions offerings, we may enter into master service agreements, which provide for standardized terms and conditions and make it easier and faster for customers with multiple development needs to access our offerings.



Backlog

While we generally have long-term supply agreements that provide for a revenue stream over a period of years, our backlog represents, as of a point in time, future service revenues from work not yet completed. For our Oral Technologies segment and Medication Delivery Solutions segment, backlog represents firm orders for manufacturing services and includes minimum volumes, where applicable. For our Development and Clinical Services segment, backlog represents estimated future service revenues from work not yet completed under signed contracts. Using these methods of reporting backlog, as ofJune 30, 2014, backlog was approximately $782.1 million, as compared to approximately $648.3 million as ofJune 30, 2013, including approximately $373.8 million and $272.6 million, respectively, related to our Development and Clinical Services segment. We expect to recognize approximately 85% of revenue from the backlog in existence as ofJune 30, 2014by the completion of the fiscal year ending June 30,2015.

To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. If a customer cancels an order, we may be reimbursed for the costs we have incurred. For orders that are placed inside a contractual firm period, we generally have a contractual right to payment in the event of cancellation. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the timing and order pattern of our customers who often seek to manage their level of inventory on hand. Because of customer ordering patterns, our backlog reported for certain periods may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future results.



Manufacturing Capabilities

We operate manufacturing facilities, development centers and sales offices throughout the world. We havetwenty-sevenfacilities on five continents with4.8 millionsquare feet of manufacturing, lab and related space. Our manufacturing capabilities include the full suite of competencies relevant to support each site’s activities, including regulatory, quality assurance and in-house validation.



We operate our plants in accordance with cGMP. More than half of our facilities are registered with the FDA, with the remaining facilities being registered with other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the EMA. In some cases certain facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies.

We have invested approximately$349.1 millionof cash outflows in our manufacturing facilities since fiscal 2012 through improvements and expansions in our facilities including approximately$122.4 millionon capital expenditures in fiscal2014. We believe that our facilities and equipment are in good condition, are well maintained and are able to operate at or above present levels for the foreseeable future, in all material respects.

Our manufacturing operations are focused on employee health and safety, regulatory compliance, operational excellence, continuous improvement, and process standardization across the organization. In fiscal2014, we achieved approximately 99% on-time shipment delivery versus customer request date across our network as a result of this focus. Our manufacturing operations








are structured around an enterprise management philosophy and methodology that utilizes principles and tools common to a number of quality management programs including Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing.



Raw Materials

We work very closely with our suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining excellence in material quality and reliability, and we have an active and effective supplier audit program. We continually evaluate alternate sources of supply, although we do not frequently pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources for key raw materials due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships, the reliability of our current supplier base and the time and expense associated with the regulatory process. Although a change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment by us in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to the performance of our products or incorporate specialized material such as gelatin, we do not believe that the loss of any existing supply arrangement would have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Risk Factors-Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry-Our future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs, availability, and suitability of the components of the products we manufacture, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients, purchased components, and raw materials.”



Competition

We compete on several fronts both domestically and internationally, including with other companies that offer advanced delivery technologies or development services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and consumer health companies based in North America, South America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. We also may compete with the internal operations of those pharmaceutical, biotechnology and consumer health manufacturers that choose to source these services internally, where possible.



Competition is driven by proprietary technologies and know-how (where relevant), consistency of operational performance, quality, price, value and speed. While we do have competitors who compete with us in our individual offerings, we do not believe we have competition from any directly comparable companies.

Research and Development Costs

Our research activities are primarily directed toward the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements.  Costs incurred in connection with the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements are recorded within selling, general, and administrative expenses. Such research and development costs included in selling, general, and administrative expenses amounted to$17.5 million,$14.5 millionand$16.9 millionfor fiscal years endedJune 30, 2014,June 30, 2013andJune 30, 2012, respectively.  Costs incurred in connection with research and development services we provide to customers and services performed in support of the commercial manufacturing process for customers are recorded within cost of sales. Such research and development costs included in cost of sales amounted to$34.0 million,$35.0 millionand$33.5 millionfor fiscal years endedJune 30, 2014,June 30, 2013andJune 30, 2012, respectively.





Employees

As ofJune 30, 2014, we had approximately8,300employees intwenty-sevenfacilities on five continents:eightfacilities are in the United States, with certain employees at one facility being represented by a labor organization with their terms and conditions of employment being subject to a collective bargaining agreement. National works councils and/or labor organizations are active at allelevenof our European facilities consistent with labor environments/laws in European countries. Similar








relationships with labor organizations or national works councils exist in our plants in Argentina, Brazil, and Australia. Our management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory.



North AmericaEuropeSouth AmericaAsia PacificTotalApproximate Number of Employees3,1003,6001,0006008,300





Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of know-how, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademarks and other intellectual property laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect a number of our offerings, services and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to our ongoing operations. We operate under licenses from third parties for certain patents, software and information technology systems and proprietary technologies and in certain instances we license our technology to third parties. We also have a long track record of innovation across our lines of business and, to further encourage active innovation, we have developed incentive compensation systems linked to patent filings and other recognition and reward programs for scientists and non-scientists alike.

We have applied in the United States and certain foreign countries for registration of a number of trademarks, service marks and patents, some of which have been registered and issued, and also hold common law rights in various trademarks and service marks. We hold approximately 1,300 patents and patent applications worldwide in advanced drug delivery and biologics formulations and technologies, and manufacturing and other areas.

We hold patents and license rights relating to certain aspects of our formulations, nutritional and pharmaceutical dosage forms, mammalian cell engineering, and sterile manufacturing services. We also hold patents relating to certain processes and products. We have a number of pending patent applications in the United States and certain foreign countries, and intend to pursue additional patents as appropriate. We have enforced and will continue to enforce our intellectual property rights in the United States and worldwide.

We do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise or concession to be material to our overall business.



Regulatory Matters

The manufacture, distribution and marketing of the products of our customers in this industry are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA, other government authorities and foreign regulatory authorities. Certain of our subsidiaries may be required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and will be required to comply with operating and security standards of, the Drug Enforcement Agency (“DEA”), the FDA, the Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”), the European Union (“EU”) member states and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as foreign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies depending upon the type of operations and location of product distribution, manufacturing and sale.



In addition, certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to the United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, The Public Health Service Act, the Controlled Substances Act and comparable state and foreign regulations, and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act.

Laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of products also exist in most other countries where our subsidiaries conduct business. In addition, the international manufacturing operations are subject to local certification requirements, including compliance with domestic and/or foreign good manufacturing practices and quality system regulations established by the FDA and/or applicable foreign regulatory authorities.

We are also subject to various federal, state, local, foreign and transnational laws, regulations and recommendations, both in the United States and abroad, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, transportation and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, U.S. and international import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the importation and exportation of finished goods, raw materials and supplies and the handling of information. We are also subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records.

The costs associated with complying with the various applicable federal regulations, as well as state, local, foreign and transnational regulations, could be significant and the failure to comply with such legal requirements could have an adverse effect








on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Risk Factors-Risks Relating toFailure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition,” for additional discussion of the costs associated with complying with the various regulations.

In fiscal2014,we underwent 48 regulatory audits and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed 239 regulatory audits, with more than 50% resulting in no reported observations.



Quality Assurance

We are committed to ensuring and maintaining the highest standard of regulatory compliance while providing high quality products to our customers. To meet these commitments, we have developed and implemented a Catalent-wide quality management system throughout the organization that is appropriate. We have more than 1,000 employees around the globe focusing on quality and regulatory compliance. Our senior management team is actively involved in setting quality policies, standards and internal position papers as well as managing internal and external quality performance. Our quality assurance department provides quality leadership and supervises our quality systems programs. An internal audit program monitors compliance with applicable regulations, standards and internal policies. In addition, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA and other equivalent local, state and foreign regulatory authorities and customers. All FDA, DEA and other regulatory inspectional observations have been resolved or are on track to be completed at the prescribed timeframe provided in response to the agency. We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the regulations under which our facilities are governed.



Environmental Matters

Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those of the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and equivalent state, local and foreign regulatory agencies in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination and employee health and safety. Our manufacturing facilities use, in varying degrees, hazardous substances in their processes. These substances include, among others, chlorinated solvents, and in the past chlorinated solvents were used at one or more of our facilities, including a number we no longer own or operate. As at our current facilities, contamination at such formerly owned or operated properties can result and has resulted in liability to us, for which we have recorded appropriate reserves as needed.





Available Information



We file annual, quarterly and special reports and other information with the SEC. Our filings with the SEC are available to the public on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. Those filings are also available to the public on, or accessible through, our website for free via the “Investor Relations” section at www.catalent.com.



The information we file with the SEC or contained on or accessible through our corporate website or any other website that we may maintain is not incorporated by reference herein and is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You may also read and copy, at SEC prescribed rates, any document we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. You can call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 to obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room.











