Item 1: Business

We are a leading provider of video, high-speed Internet and phone services (“cable services”) to residential and business customers in
the United States. On January 28, 2011, we closed our transaction with General Electric Company (“GE”) in which we acquired control of the businesses of NBC Universal, Inc. (now named NBCUniversal Media, LLC
(“NBCUniversal”)), a leading media and entertainment company that develops, produces and distributes entertainment, news, sports and other content to global audiences.

As of December 31, 2010, our cable systems served approximately 22.8 million video customers, 17.0 million high-speed Internet
customers and 8.6 million phone customers and passed over 51 million homes and businesses in 39 states and the District of Columbia. We report the results of these operations as our Cable segment. In 2010, our Cable segment generated
approximately 94% of our consolidated revenue. As of December 31, 2010, our Cable segment also included the operations of our regional sports and news networks. As of December 31, 2010, our Programming segment consisted primarily of our
consolidated national cable programming networks, E!, Golf Channel, VERSUS, G4 and Style. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have developed, managed and operated cable systems since
1963.

As of December 31, 2010, our other business interests included Comcast Interactive Media and Comcast Spectacor. Comcast
Interactive Media develops and operates our Internet businesses, including Comcast.net, Xfinity TV, Plaxo, Fandango and DailyCandy. Comcast Spectacor owns two professional sports teams, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Philadelphia Flyers, and a
large, multipurpose arena in Philadelphia, the Wells Fargo Center, and provides facilities management and food services for sporting events, concerts and other events. Comcast Interactive Media, Comcast Spectacor and all other consolidated
businesses not included in our Cable or Programming segments were included in “Corporate and Other” activities as of December 31, 2010.

For financial and other information about our reportable segments, refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information and Websites

Our phone
number is (215) 286-1700, and our principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on

the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to
such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on
our website at www.comcast.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into our SEC filings.

General Developments of Our Businesses

In
addition to the NBCUniversal transaction discussed below, the following are the more significant developments in our businesses during 2010:



•an increase in consolidated revenue of 6.1% to $37.9 billion and an increase in consolidated operating income of 10.6% to $8.0 billion



•an increase in Cable segment revenue of 5.6% to $35.8 billion and an increase in Cable segment operating income before depreciation and amortization of
6.4% to $14.6 billion



•an increase in Programming segment revenue of 11.8% to $1.7 billion and an increase in Programming segment operating income before depreciation and
amortization of 20.6% to $469 million



•the addition of 1.1 million high-speed Internet customers and 988,000 phone customers; and a decrease of 757,000 video customers



•a reduction in Cable segment capital expenditures of 3.8% to $4.8 billion



•the continued investment in our cable distribution system, including the ongoing transition from analog to digital transmission of the channels we distribute
(“our all digital conversion”); the continued deployment of DOCSIS 3.0 wideband technology; expanding the offering of certain programming to our customers online; and the continued deployment of 4G wireless high-speed Internet service in
certain markets



•an increase in our total debt outstanding of $2.3 billion to $31.4 billion, which is primarily due to the issuance of $3.4 billion aggregate
principal amount of notes, the proceeds of which were primarily used to repay debt at its maturity in 2010 and finance the NBCUniversal transaction in 2011







1Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K




•the repurchase of approximately 70 million shares of our Class A Special common stock under our share repurchase authorization for approximately
$1.2 billion•the declaration and payment of dividends of $1.1 billionWe operate our businesses in an intensely competitive environment. Competition for the cable services we offer primarily includes direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) operators and phone companies. In 2010,
our competitors for cable services continued to add features and adopt aggressive pricing and packaging for services that are comparable to the services we offer. A substantial portion of our Cable segment revenue comes from customers whose spending
patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions.NBCUniversal TransactionOn January 28, 2011, we closed our transaction with GE to form a new company named NBCUniversal, LLC (“NBCUniversal Holdings”). We
now control and own 51% of NBCUniversal Holdings, and GE owns the remaining 49%. As part of the NBCUniversal transaction, GE contributed the businesses of NBCUniversal, which is now a wholly owned subsidiary of NBCUniversal Holdings. The
NBCUniversal contributed businesses include its national cable programming networks, the NBC network and its owned NBC affiliated local television stations, the Telemundo network and its owned Telemundo affiliated local television stations,
Universal Pictures filmed entertainment, the

Universal Studios Hollywood theme park and other related assets. We contributed our national cable programming networks, our regional sports and news networks, certain of our Internet businesses,
including DailyCandy and Fandango, and other related assets (“Comcast Content Business”). In addition to contributing the Comcast Content Business to NBCUniversal, we made a cash payment of $6.2 billion at the closing.

As a result of the NBCUniversal transaction, beginning in 2011 we expect to present five reportable segments, Cable Distribution (currently
presented in our Cable segment), Cable Networks, Broadcast Networks, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks. Our Programming segment, our regional sports and news networks (currently presented in our Cable segment) and our contributed Comcast
Interactive Media businesses (currently presented in Corporate and Other) will be presented with NBCUniversal’s businesses in the new segments. The businesses of Comcast Interactive Media that were not contributed to NBCUniversal will be
included in our Cable Distribution segment.

For more information about this transaction, refer to Note 21 to our consolidated financial
statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information on the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) order and the Department of Justice consent decree related to the transaction, see “Legislation and
Regulation” below. For more information on NBCUniversal, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K2






Description of Our
Businesses

Cable Segment



The table below summarizes certain customer
and penetration data for our cable operations as of December 31.



(in millions)20102009200820072006Homes
passed(a)51.951.250.648.545.7VideoVideo
customers(b)22.823.624.224.123.4Video
penetration(c)43.9%46.0%47.8%49.6%51.3%Digital video
customers(d)19.718.417.015.212.1Digital video
penetration(d)86.6%78.2%70.3%63.1%51.9%High-speed InternetAvailable
homes(e)51.550.850.348.145.2High-speed Internet customers17.015.914.913.211.0Penetration(c)33.0%31.4%29.7%27.5%24.4%PhoneAvailable
homes(e)49.848.446.742.231.5Phone customers8.67.66.54.62.4Penetration(c)17.3%15.7%13.9%10.8%7.6%

Basis
of Presentation: Information related to cable system acquisitions is included from the date acquired. Information related to cable systems sold or exchanged is excluded for all periods presented. All percentages are calculated based on actual
amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.



(a)Homes and businesses are considered passed (“homes passed”) if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the
transmission lines. Homes passed is an estimate based on the best available information.



(b)Generally, a dwelling or commercial unit with one or more television sets connected to our distribution system counts as one video customer. In the case of
some multiple dwelling units (“MDU”), we count video customers on an FCC equivalent basis by dividing total revenue received from a contract with an MDU by the standard residential rate where the specific MDU is located.



(c)Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes passed or available homes, as appropriate. The number of customers
includes our residential and small and medium-sized business (“business services”) customers.



(d)Digital video customers are those who receive any level of video service via digital transmission through any means, including customers who receive a digital
transmission as a result of our all digital conversion. A dwelling with one or more digital set-top boxes counts as one digital video customer. On average, as of December 31, 2010, each digital video customer had 2.5 digital set-top boxes,
including digital transport adapters. Digital video penetration is calculated by dividing the number of digital video customers by total video customers.



(e)Homes and businesses are considered available (“available homes”) if we can connect them to our distribution system without further upgrading the
transmission lines and if we offer the service in that area.



Cable ServicesWe offer a variety of services over our cable distribution system, including video, high-speed Internet and phone services. We market our cable services individually and in packages to both residential and business
customers. Subscription rates and related charges vary according to the service selected and the type of equipment the customer uses, and customers typically pay us on a monthly basis. Residential customers may generally discontinue service at any
time, while business customers may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of their respective contracts, which typically have 1 to 3 year terms.We are focusing our technology initiatives on extending the capacity and efficiency of our network, increasing the capacity and functionality of set-top boxes, developing and integrating cross-service features and
functionality, and developing interactive Internet protocol-based services.

Video ServicesOur video service offerings range from a limited analog service to a full digital service, as well as advanced services, which consist of high-definition television (“HDTV”) and digital video recorder
(“DVR”). We tailor our video services for each cable distribution system serving a particular geographic area according to applicable local and federal regulatory requirements, programming preferences and demographics.Our analog video services typically offer a limited basic service with access to between 20 and 40 channels of video programming. In
substantially all of our footprint, we have converted our video services, other than limited basic service, exclusively to digital delivery, which allows us to recapture bandwidth and expand our video offerings. We refer to this as our all digital
conversion. Our digital video services range from a digital economy service with access to approximately 50 channels of video programming to a full digital service with access to over 300 channels. Our video services







3Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






generally include programming provided by national and local broadcast networks and by national and regional cable networks, as well as governmental and public access programming. Our digital
video services generally include access to over 40 music channels, our On Demand service and an interactive, on-screen program guide. We also offer packages that include extensive amounts of foreign-language programming, and we offer other specialty
tiers of programming with sports, family or international themes.

Our video customers may also subscribe to premium channel
programming. Premium channels include cable programming networks such as HBO, Showtime, Starz and Cinemax, which generally offer, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and taped sporting events, concerts and other
special features.

Our On Demand service provides our digital video customers the opportunity to choose from a selection of up to 25,000
standard-definition and high-definition programming choices in select markets over the course of a month; start the programs at whatever time is convenient; and pause, rewind and fast-forward the programs. A substantial portion of our On Demand
content is available to our digital video customers at no additional charge. Digital video customers subscribing to a premium channel generally have access to the premium channel’s On Demand content without additional fees. Our On Demand
service also includes fee-based selections that allow our video customers the opportunity to order individual new release and library movies and special-event programs, such as professional boxing, mixed martial arts, wrestling and concerts. We plan
to continue expanding the number of On Demand choices, including HDTV programming.

Our HDTV service provides improved high-resolution
picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format for customers who use HD-capable TV sets. Our HDTV service includes a broad selection of high-definition programming choices, including most major broadcast networks, leading national
cable networks, premium channels and regional sports networks. In addition, our On Demand service provides HD video customers the opportunity to choose from a selection of up to 6,000 HDTV programming choices in select markets over the course of a
month. Our DVR service lets digital video customers select, record and store programs and play them at whatever time is convenient. Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind “live” television. During 2010, we began
to offer select programming in 3D format on the channels we distribute as well as On Demand, which allows customers with 3D capable TV sets and viewing glasses to view 3D programming.

During 2010, we also expanded our service capabilities so our video customers can view content and program listings and schedule and manage DVR
recordings online or with alternative devices, such as the iPad.

High-Speed Internet Services

We offer high-speed Internet services with Internet access at downstream speeds of up to 105 Mbps, depending on the service selected and subject to geographic market availability. These services also include our
Internet portal, Comcast.net, which provides multiple e-mail addresses and online storage, as well as a variety of content and value-added features and enhancements that are designed to take advantage of the speed of the Internet services we
provide. Our high-speed Internet service for business customers also includes a website hosting service and an online tool that allows customers to share, coordinate and store documents.

Phone Services

We offer an interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol
(“VoIP”) phone service that provides either usage-based or unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling and includes features such as voice mail, caller ID and call waiting. Our phone service for business customers also includes a
business directory listing and the option to add multiple phone lines.

Advertising

As part of our programming license agreements with programming networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time that we
may sell to local, regional and national advertisers. In most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising
time allocated to us. We also coordinate the advertising sales efforts of other cable operators in some markets, and in some markets we operate advertising interconnects. These interconnects establish a physical, direct link among multiple providers
for the sale of regional and national advertising across larger geographic areas than could be provided by a single cable operator. We are also beginning to deploy and are further developing technology for interactive advertising.

Regional Sports and News Networks

Our
regional sports and news networks include Comcast SportsNet (Philadelphia), Comcast SportsNet Mid-Atlantic (Baltimore/Washington), Cable Sports Southeast, Comcast SportsNet Chicago, MountainWest Sports Network, Comcast SportsNet California
(Sacramento), Comcast SportsNet New England (Boston), Comcast SportsNet Northwest (Portland), Comcast Sports Southwest (Houston), Comcast SportsNet Bay Area (San Francisco), New England Cable News (Boston), Comcast Network Philadelphia and Comcast
Network Mid-Atlantic (Baltimore/Washington). These networks generate revenue from programming license agreements with multichannel video providers and through the sale of advertising. These networks were contributed to NBCUniversal at the close of
the NBCUniversal transaction on January 28, 2011.







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K4






Other Revenue Sources

We also generate revenue from our digital media center, commissions from electronic retailing networks and fees from other services.

Sources of Supply

To offer our video services, we license a substantial portion of our
programming and the associated On Demand offerings from broadcast and cable programming networks, and we generally pay a monthly fee for such programming on a per video subscriber, per channel basis. We attempt to secure long-term programming
licenses with volume discounts and/or marketing support and incentives from these programming networks. We also license individual programs or packages of programs from programming suppliers for our On Demand service and for viewing online,
generally under shorter-term agreements.

Our video programming expenses depend on the number of our video customers, the number of
channels and programs we provide, and the programming license fees we are charged. We expect our video programming expenses to continue to be our largest single expense item and to continue to increase in the future.

We purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of set-top boxes and network equipment and services that we use in providing
our cable services.

For our high-speed Internet portal, Comcast.net, we license software products (such as e-mail and security
software) and content (such as news feeds) from a variety of suppliers under contracts in which we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share basis
in the case of content licenses.

To offer our phone services, we license software products (such as voice mail) from a variety of
suppliers under multiyear contracts. The fees we pay generally are based on the consumption of the related services.

We use two vendors
to provide our customer billing for our cable services.

Customer and Technical Services

We service our customers through local, regional and national call and technical centers. Call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability,
telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, transmission and distribution plant maintenance, plant upgrades, and activities related to customer service.

Technology

Our cable distribution system
employs a network architecture of hybrid fiber coax that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable

to support our future technology requirements. This network allows the two-way delivery of transmissions, which is essential to providing interactive video services, such as On Demand, and
high-speed Internet and phone services.

We continue to work on technology initiatives, including:



•developing cross-service functionality that integrates key features of two or more of our services (such as universal caller ID and a remotely programmable
DVR)



•deploying multiple tools to recapture bandwidth and optimize our network, including transitioning from analog to digital transmission as part of our all
digital conversion, increasing the number of nodes in a service area, and using advanced video encoding and digital compression technologies



•developing technology and software to better identify problems with our cable services and to allow for better integration of our software with third party
software



•working with members of CableLabs, a nonprofit research and development consortium founded by members of the cable industry, to develop and integrate a common
software platform, known as tru2way, that enables cable companies, content developers, network programmers, consumer electronics companies and others to extend interactivity to the TV set and other types of devices



•developing wireless options to extend our services outside the home to provide mobility and create new features that are integrated with our services,
including through our relationship with Clearwire and the deployment of Wi-Fi in portions of our service areas



•offering of certain programming to our customers online through Xfinity TV



•enabling various consumer electronic devices, including computers, tablets, connected TVs and smartphones, to search, control and display the content and
video services we provide

Sales and Marketing

We offer our products and services directly to residential and business customers through our call centers, door-to-door selling, direct mail advertising, television advertising, Internet advertising, local media
advertising, telemarketing and retail outlets. We also market our video, high-speed Internet and phone services individually and as bundled services.

Competition

We operate our businesses in an
intensely competitive environment. Our cable services compete with a number of different companies that offer a broad range of services through increasingly diverse means. Competition for the cable services we offer







5Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






primarily includes DBS operators and phone companies. In 2010, our competitors continued to add features and adopt aggressive pricing and packaging for services that are comparable to the
services we offer. In addition, phone companies have continued to expand their service areas, which now overlap a substantial portion of our service areas. These competitive factors have had an impact on and are likely to continue to negatively
affect our results of operations. In addition, we operate in a technologically complex environment where the use of certain types of technology may provide our competitors with a competitive advantage and where new technologies are likely to
increase the number of competitors we face for our cable services and our cable advertising business. We expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, to continue in the future, and we are unable to predict
what effects these developments may have on our businesses and operations.

Video Services

We compete with a number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:



•DBS providers that transmit satellite signals containing video programming, data and other information to receiving dishes located on the customer’s
premises



•certain phone companies that have built and are continuing to build wireline fiber-optic-based networks, in some cases using Internet protocol technology,
that provide video and high-speed Internet services in substantial portions of our service areas; these phone companies also market DBS video services in certain areas where they provide only phone and high-speed Internet service



•other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable
operators



•satellite master antenna television (“SMATV”) systems that generally serve MDUs, office complexes, and residential developments



•online services that offer Internet video streaming and distribution of movies, television shows and other video programming

In recent years, Congress has enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory policies intended to provide a favorable operating
environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to our cable services. The FCC adopted rules favoring new investment by certain phone companies in networks capable of distributing video programming and rules allocating and
auctioning spectrum for new wireless services that may compete

with our video service offerings. Furthermore, the FCC and various state governments have adopted measures that reduce or eliminate local franchising requirements for new entrants into the
multichannel video marketplace, including phone companies. Certain of these franchising entry measures have already been adopted in many states in which we operate. We believe that we have been and continue to be disadvantaged as a result of these
regulatory changes, which apply less burdensome standards to certain types of our competitors (see “Legislation and Regulation” below).

Direct Broadcast Satellite Systems

According to recent government and industry
reports, conventional medium-power and high-power satellites provide video programming to approximately 41 million subscribers in the United States. DBS providers with high-power satellites typically offer more than 280 channels of programming,
including video services substantially similar to our video services. Two companies, DIRECTV and DISH Network, provide service to substantially all of these DBS subscribers.

High-power satellite service can be received throughout the continental United States through small rooftop or side-mounted outdoor antennas. Satellite systems use video compression technology to increase channel
capacity and digital technology to improve the quality and quantity of the signals transmitted to DBS subscribers. Our digital video services are competitive with the programming, channel capacity and quality of signals currently delivered to
subscribers by DBS providers.

Federal law generally provides DBS providers with access to cable-affiliated video programming services
delivered by satellite. DBS providers also have marketing arrangements with certain phone companies in which the DBS provider’s video services are sold together with the phone company’s high-speed Internet and phone services.

Phone Companies

Certain
phone companies, in particular AT&T and Verizon, have built and continue to build fiber-optic-based networks to provide cable services similar to ours, which now overlap a substantial portion of our service areas. In some areas, this expansion
has been accelerated by certain regulatory authorities adopting new rules designed to ease the franchising process and reduce franchising burdens for new providers of video services and by some phone companies claiming that they can provide their
video services without a local cable franchise (see “Legislation and Regulation” below). In some areas, these phone companies also have marketing arrangements with DBS providers in which their high-speed Internet and phone services are
sold together with a DBS provider’s video services.







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K6






Other Wireline Providers

Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises, and it permits franchising authorities
to operate cable systems. In addition to phone companies, various other companies, including those that traditionally have not provided cable services and have substantial financial resources (such as public utilities, including those that own some
of the poles to which our cables are attached), have obtained cable franchises and provide competing cable services. These and other cable systems offer cable services in various areas where we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based
competitors may emerge in other franchise areas that we serve.

Satellite Master Antenna Television Systems

Our cable services also compete for customers with SMATV systems. SMATV system operators typically are not subject to regulation in the same manner
as local, franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer customers both improved reception of local television broadcast stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems. In addition, some SMATV system operators offer
packages of video, Internet and phone services to residential and commercial developments.

Other Competitors

Our cable services also may compete to some degree for customers with other companies, such as:



•online services that offer Internet video streaming and distribution of movies, television shows and other video programming



•local television broadcast stations that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming



•wireless and other emerging mobile technologies that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming



•video rental services and home video products

High-Speed Internet Services

We compete with a number of companies offering Internet
services, many of which have substantial resources, including:



•wireline phone companies



•Internet service providers



•wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service



•power
companies

Digital subscriber line (“DSL”) technology allows Internet access to be provided to
customers over phone lines at data transmission speeds substantially greater than those of dial-up modems. Phone companies and certain other companies offer DSL service, and several of these companies have increased transmission speeds, lowered
prices or created bundled service packages. In addition, some phone companies, such as AT&T and Verizon, have built and are continuing to build fiber-optic-based networks that allow them to provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that
can be provided with DSL technology and are now offering these higher speed services in many of our service areas. The FCC has reduced the obligations of phone companies to offer their broadband facilities on a wholesale or retail basis to
competitors, and it has freed their DSL services of common carrier regulation.

Various wireless companies are offering Internet
services using a variety of types of networks, including 3G and 4G wireless high-speed data networks (which employ LTE, WiMax and other technology standards) and Wi-Fi Internet networks. These networks work with devices such as wireless data cards
and wireless embedded devices, such as handsets, laptops and tablets. Some of these services are similar to ours. In addition, a growing number of commercial venues, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi Internet service.
Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and other Internet access networks.

Phone Services

Our phone services
compete against wireline phone companies, including competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”), wireless phone service providers and other VoIP service providers. Certain phone companies, such as AT&T and Verizon, have substantial
capital and other resources, longstanding customer relationships and extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources.

Advertising

We compete for the
sale of advertising against a wide variety of media, including local television broadcast stations, national television broadcast networks, national and regional cable programming networks, local radio broadcast stations, local and regional
newspapers, magazines and websites.







7Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Programming Segment



As of December 31, 2010, our
Programming segment consisted primarily of our consolidated national cable programming networks. The businesses in our Programming segment were contributed to NBCUniversal at the close of the NBCUniversal transaction on January 28, 2011. The
table below presents a summary of our consolidated national cable programming networks.



Programming NetworkApproximateU.S. Subscribers atDecember 31,
2010(in millions)(a)Description of ProgrammingE!98Entertainment and pop cultureGolf Channel83Golf competition and golf entertainmentVERSUS75Sports and leisureStyle66LifestyleG459Gamer lifestyle



(a)Subscriber data based on The Nielsen Company’s January 2011 report, which covers that period from December 15, 2010 through December 21, 2010.



Revenue from our programming networks is primarily generated from monthly per subscriber license fees
paid by multichannel video providers that have typically entered into multiyear contracts to distribute our programming networks, the sale of advertising and the licensing of our programming internationally. To obtain long-term contracts with
distributors, we may make cash payments, provide an initial period in which license fee payments are waived or do both. Our programming networks assist distributors with ongoing marketing and promotional activities to acquire and retain customers.
Although we believe prospects of continued carriage and marketing of our programming networks by larger distributors are generally good, the loss of one or more of such distributors could have a material adverse effect on our programming
networks.Our programming networks often produce their own television programs and broadcasts of live events. This often requires us to
acquire the rights to the content that is used in such productions (such as rights to screenplays or sporting events). In other cases, our programming networks license the cable telecast rights to television programs produced by third
parties.

Other BusinessesOur other business interests include
Comcast Interactive Media and Comcast Spectacor. Comcast Interactive Media develops and operates our Internet businesses focused on entertainment, information and communication, including Comcast.net, Xfinity TV, Plaxo, DailyCandy and Fandango.
DailyCandy and Fandango were contributed to NBCUniversal at the close of the NBCUniversal transaction on January 28, 2011. Comcast Spectacor owns two professional sports teams, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Philadelphia Flyers, and a large,
multipurpose arena in Philadelphia, the Wells Fargo Center, and provides facilities management and food services for sporting events, concerts and other events.We own noncontrolling interests in certain networks and content providers, including iN DEMAND (54%), Music Choice (12%) and Pittsburgh Cable News Channel (30%). We also own noncontrolling interests in FEARnet
(31%), PBS KIDS Sprout (40%), TV One (34%), Houston Regional Sports Network, L.P. (23%), and SportsNet New York (8%), which were all contributed to NBCUniversal at the close of the NBCUniversal transaction on January 28, 2011. In addition, we
have noncontrolling interests in wireless-related companies, including Clearwire Communications LLC (9%) and SpectrumCo, LLC (64%).







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K8






NBCUniversal



As a result of the NBCUniversal transaction, NBCUniversal has become a consolidated subsidiary of ours. Below is a summary of NBCUniversal’s
businesses prior to the closing of the transaction.

Cable Networks

NBCUniversal’s cable networks business operates a diversified portfolio of 11 national cable programming networks, more than 60 international channels, and digital media properties consisting primarily of
brand-aligned and other websites. The table below presents a summary of NBCUniversal’s national cable programming networks.



Programming NetworkApproximateU.S. Subscribers atDecember 31, 2010(in millions)(a)Description of ProgrammingUSA Network100General entertainmentSyFy98Imagination-based entertainmentCNBC98Business and financial newsMSNBC9524 hour newsBravo94Entertainment, culture and artsOxygen76Women’s interestsChiller41Horror and suspenseCNBC World39Global financial newsSleuth37Crime, mystery and suspensemun236Diverse, youth-oriented entertainment for bicultural LatinosUniversal HD22HD general entertainment programming



(a)Subscriber data based on The Nielsen Company’s January 2011 report, which covers that period from December 15, 2010 through December 21, 2010,
except for Universal HD, which was derived from information provided by multichannel video providers.



NBCUniversal’s cable networks business develops its own programs or acquires rights from third
parties. NBCUniversal’s cable networks business also has a production studio, which creates and produces original content for cable television and other media platforms, both for NBCUniversal’s cable programming networks and those of
third parties. NBCUniversal distributes this content to all forms of television and digital media platforms, including broadcast, cable and pay television networks and through home video and various digital formats, both in the United States and
internationally.Revenue from NBCUniversal’s cable networks business consists primarily of (i) distribution revenue from
multichannel video providers and advertising revenue from the sale of commercial time on its cable programming networks and related digital media properties and (ii) cable television production revenue, which includes content licensing and
other revenue generated from the exploitation of its owned programming in the United States and internationally, as well as revenue from the sale of its owned programming on standard-definition digital video discs and Blu-ray discs (together,
“DVDs”), through digital media platforms and from the licensing of its brands for consumer products.

Broadcast NetworksNBCUniversal operates the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, which together serve audiences and advertisers in all 50 states, including the largest U.S. metropolitan areas. NBCUniversal’s broadcast networks
business also includes its owned and operated NBC and Telemundo local television stations, its television production operations and its related digital media properties. Revenue from the broadcast networks consists primarily of (i) advertising
revenue from the sale of commercial time on broadcast networks, owned local television stations and related digital media properties and (ii) broadcast television production revenue, which includes content licensing and other revenue generated
from the exploitation of its owned programming in the United States and internationally, as well as revenue from the sale of its owned programming on DVDs, through digital media platforms and from the licensing of its brands for consumer products.
In the past, NBCUniversal typically realized in-kind value for retransmission rights of its owned local television stations in the form of more attractive distribution terms for its cable programming networks. Market trends are moving toward direct
monetary compensation for these retransmission rights.







9Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K








NBC NetworkThe NBC Network’s programs reach viewers in virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States. NBCUniversal owns and operates 10 NBC affiliated local
broadcast television stations. In addition, NBCUniversal operates various websites that extend its brands and content online.The NBC
Network produces its own programs or acquires broadcast rights from third parties. Its broadcast television production studio creates and produces original content, including scripted and unscripted series, talk shows and digital media projects that
are sold to broadcast networks, cable networks, local television stations and other media platforms owned by NBCUniversal and third parties. It also produces “first-run” syndicated shows, which are programs for initial exhibition on local
television stations in the United States on a market-by-market basis, without prior exhibition on a network.

NBCUniversal distributes the content it produces to all forms of television and digital media
platforms, including broadcast, cable and pay television networks and through home video and various digital formats, both in the United States and internationally. In the United States, it currently distributes some of its programs after their
exhibition on a broadcast network, as well as older television programs from its library, to its owned local television stations and cable networks in the off-network syndication market. NBCUniversal’s television library consists of rights of
varying nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including current and classic titles, non-scripted programming, sports, news, long- and short-form programming and locally produced programming from around the world.
NBCUniversal also has various contractual commitments for the licensing of rights for multiyear programming, including sports programming rights with the National Football League (“NFL”) and the Olympics in 2012.





NBC Owned Local Television
Stations

NBCUniversal owns and operates 10 affiliated local television stations, which collectively reached approximately
31 million U.S. television households, representing approximately 27% of all U.S. television households, as of December 31, 2010. The table below presents a summary of the NBC affiliated local television stations owned and operated by
NBCUniversal.



DMA Served(a)StationGeneral Market 
Rank(b)New York, NYWNBC1Los Angeles, CAKNBC2Chicago, ILWMAQ3Philadelphia, PAWCAU4Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXAS(c)5San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKNTV6Washington, D.C.WRC9Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FLWTVJ16San Diego, CAKNSD(c)28Hartford, CTWVIT30



(a)Designated market area (“DMA”) served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local
advertising time.



(b)General market rank is as of December 31, 2010 and is based on the relative size of the DMA among the 210 generally recognized DMAs in the United States
based on Nielsen estimates for the 2010-2011 season.



(c)Owned through a joint venture with LIN TV Corp.





Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K10






Telemundo

NBCUniversal owns Telemundo Communications Group (“Telemundo”), a leading Hispanic media company that produces, acquires and
distributes Spanish-language content in the United States and internationally. Telemundo’s operations include the Telemundo Network. Telemundo owns and operates 14 stations affiliated with the Telemundo Network. Telemundo also owns and operates
a local television station in Puerto Rico and an independent, non-affiliated Spanish-language local television station in the Los Angeles DMA, which was placed into a divestiture trust on January 28, 2011. The table below presents a summary of
these owned television stations, which collectively reached approximately 57% of U.S. Hispanic television households as of December 31, 2010.



DMA Served(a)StationHispanic Market 
Rank(b)Los Angeles, CAKVEA, KWHY(c)1New York, NYWNJU2Miami, FLWSCV3Houston, TXKTMD4Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXTX5Chicago, ILWSNS-TV6Phoenix, AZKTAZ7San Antonio, TXKVDA(d)8San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKSTS9Fresno, CAKNSO(d)13Denver, COKDEN15Las Vegas, NVKBLR22Boston, MAWNEU(d)24Tucson, AZKHRR25Puerto RicoWKAQ—



(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.



(b)Hispanic market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among approximately 13 million U.S. Hispanic households as of December 31, 2010.



(c)Independent Spanish-language television station placed into a divestiture trust on January 28, 2011; it is no longer managed by NBCUniversal.



(d)Operated by a third party that provides certain non-network programming and operations services under a time brokerage agreement.



Filmed EntertainmentNBCUniversal’s filmed entertainment business produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment and stage plays worldwide in various media formats for theatrical, home entertainment, television
and other distribution platforms. It offers a diverse mix of internally developed titles, coproductions and acquisitions. Its content consists of theatrical films, direct-to-video titles and its film library, comprised of approximately 4,000 titles
representing a wide variety of genres. It distributes filmed entertainment globally through theatrical releases, DVDs, television and, increasingly, other digital media formats.NBCUniversal’s filmed entertainment business produces films both on its own and jointly with other studios or production companies, as well as
with other entities. Its films are produced under both the Universal Pictures and Focus Features names. Its films are marketed and distributed worldwide primarily through NBCUniversal’s own marketing and distribution companies. It also acquires
distribution rights to films produced by others, which may be limited to particular geographic regions, specific forms of media or certain periods of time. NBCUniversal generally retains all rights relating to the worldwide distribution of its
internally produced films, including rights for theatrical exhibition, home entertainment distribution, pay and advertising-supported television exhibition and other media.

After their theatrical premiere, NBCUniversal distributes its films for home entertainment use on DVD and in various digital formats. NBCUniversal also licenses its films for distribution on
broadcast, cable, satellite and pay television channels and video on demand in both U.S. and international markets.Revenue from
NBCUniversal’s filmed entertainment business consists primarily of (i) theatrical revenue derived from the worldwide theatrical release of owned and acquired films; (ii) home entertainment revenue, which consists of the license or
sale of owned and acquired films, including theatrical releases and direct-to-video releases, to retail stores and through digital media platforms; and (iii) television licensing revenue, which is primarily derived from the licensing of owned
and acquired films to pay and advertising-supported television distribution platforms. It also generates revenue from distributing third parties’ filmed entertainment, producing stage plays, publishing music and licensing consumer products.Theme ParksNBCUniversal’s
theme parks business consists primarily of its Universal Studios Hollywood theme park, Wet ‘n Wild water park and fees from intellectual property licenses and other services from third parties that own and operate Universal Studios Japan and
Universal Studios Singapore. It also has a 50% equity interest in,







11Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






and receives special and other fees from, Universal City Development Partners, which owns Universal Studios Florida and Universal’s Islands of Adventure.

Revenue from NBCUniversal’s theme parks business depends primarily on theme park attendance; per capita spending, which consists of ticket
price and in-park spending on food, beverage and merchandise; and management, licensing and other fees.

Other Interests

NBCUniversal also has noncontrolling interests in certain cable programming networks and related businesses, including MSNBC.com (50% joint venture
with Microsoft), Hulu (32%), The Weather Channel (25%) and A&E Television Networks LLC (16%), which owns and operates, among other channels, A&E, The History Channel, The Biography Channel and Lifetime.

Competition



The discussion below describes the competition facing our Programming segment, our regional sports and news networks, and the NBCUniversal
contributed businesses.

Cable and Broadcast Networks

Our national cable programming networks, our regional sports and news networks, and NBCUniversal’s cable programming and broadcast networks and owned local television stations compete for viewers’
attention and audience share with all forms of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local television broadcast stations, pay and other cable networks, home entertainment, pay-per-view and video services, online activities,
including Internet streaming and downloading and websites providing social networking and user-generated content, and other forms of entertainment, news and information services. In addition, our national cable programming networks, our regional
sports and news networks, and NBCUniversal’s cable and broadcast networks and owned local television stations compete for advertising revenue with other national and local media, including other television networks, television stations, online
and mobile outlets, radio stations and print media.

Our national cable programming networks, our regional sports and news networks, and
NBCUniversal’s cable programming and broadcast networks and owned local television stations also compete for the acquisition of programming, including sports programming, as well as for on-air and creative talent, with other cable and broadcast
networks and local television stations. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming. NBC Sports has a programming rights agreement with the NFL to produce and broadcast a specified number of regular season and
playoff games, including NBC’s Sunday Night Football through the 2013-2014 season, the 2012 Super Bowl and the 2012, 2013 and 2014 Pro Bowls. NBC Sports, Golf

Channel, VERSUS and our regional sports networks also have rights of varying scope and duration to various sporting events, including certain PGA TOUR Golf events and National Hockey League
(“NHL”) games. In addition, NBC Sports has been the continuous home of the Summer Olympic Games since 1988 and the Winter Olympic Games since 2002. NBC Sports owns the broadcast rights for the 2012 London Olympic Games. There can be no
assurance whether NBC Sports will submit a bid to continue the rights for the Olympics and whether any bid would be accepted by the International Olympic Committee. In addition, the production divisions of NBCUniversal’s businesses compete with
other production companies and creators of content for the acquisition of story properties, creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and consumer interest in their products.

Our national cable programming networks, our regional sports and news networks, and NBCUniversal’s cable programming networks compete with
other cable networks for distribution by multichannel video providers. NBCUniversal’s broadcast networks compete with the other broadcast networks to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the
country, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience.

Filmed Entertainment

NBCUniversal’s filmed entertainment business competes for audiences for its films and other entertainment content with other
major studios, and, to a lesser extent, with independent film producers, as well as with alternative forms of entertainment. Its competitive position primarily depends on the number of films produced, their distribution and marketing success, and
consumer response. The filmed entertainment business also competes to obtain creative and technical talent, including writers, actors, directors and producers, and scripts for films. NBCUniversal’s filmed entertainment business also competes
with the other major studios and other producers of entertainment content for distribution of their products through various exhibition and distribution outlets and on digital media platforms.

Theme Parks

NBCUniversal’s theme parks
business competes with other highly capitalized, multi-park entertainment companies. It also competes with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities.

Seasonality



Advertising revenue in our Cable and Programming segments and NBCUniversal’s businesses is subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. U.S. advertising revenue is generally
higher in the second and fourth calendar quarters of each year, due in part to increases in consumer advertising in the







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K12






spring and in the period leading up to and including the holiday season. U.S. advertising revenue is also cyclical, benefiting in even-numbered years from advertising placed by candidates for
political office and issue-oriented advertising and from increased demand for advertising time in Olympic broadcasts. Revenue also fluctuates due to the timing and performance of theatrical, home entertainment and television releases, and due to
seasonal increases in theme park attendance.

Legislation and Regulation

Our businesses, including NBCUniversal’s businesses, are subject to regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities under applicable laws and regulations, as well as under agreements we enter into
with franchising authorities. In addition, our businesses are subject to compliance with the terms of the FCC Order approving the NBCUniversal transaction (the “NBCUniversal Order”) and a consent decree entered into between us, the
Department of Justice and five states (the “NBCUniversal Consent Decree”).

The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the
“Communications Act”), and FCC regulations and policies affect significant aspects of our businesses, including cable system and broadcast station ownership, video services customer rates, carriage of broadcast television stations,
broadcast programming content and advertising, how we package our programming to customers and other providers, access to cable system channels by franchising authorities and other parties, the use of utility poles and conduits, and our high-speed
Internet and phone services.

Legislators and regulators at all levels of government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do
change, existing statutes, rules, or interpretations of existing statutes or rules, or prescribe new ones. We are unable to predict any such changes, or how any such changes will ultimately affect the regulation of our businesses. In addition, we
always face the risk that Congress or one or more states will approve legislation significantly affecting our businesses. The following paragraphs describe existing and potential future legal and regulatory requirements for our businesses, including
those of NBCUniversal.

NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree

In connection with the NBCUniversal transaction, the NBCUniversal Order and the NBCUniversal Consent Decree incorporated numerous commitments and
voluntary conditions made by us and imposed numerous conditions on our businesses relating to the treatment of competitors and other matters. Among other things, (i) we are required to make certain of our cable, broadcast and film programming
available to bona fide online video distributors under certain conditions, and they may invoke commercial arbitration to

Cable Services



Video Services

Ownership Limits

We currently serve
approximately 23.1% of the subscribers served by MVPDs nationwide. In August 2009, a federal appellate court struck down an FCC order that had established a 30% limit on the percentage of MVPD subscribers that any single cable operator could serve
nationwide. While there is currently no limit on the number of video subscribers that a single cable operator can serve nationwide, the FCC may initiate consideration of a new limit. However, even without the adoption of a new limit, federal
regulators (including the FCC and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and/or the Department of Justice) could refuse to approve certain transactions that increase the number of video subscribers we serve.

The FCC is assessing whether to revise a limit on the number of affiliated programming channels that a cable operator may carry on a cable system.
The FCC’s previous limit of 40% of the first 75 channels carried on a cable system was struck down by a federal







13Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






appellate court in 2001, though the FCC continues to enforce it. The FCC previously clarified that, under the 40% limit, cable systems with 75 or more channels must carry at least 45 unaffiliated
channels. Our cable systems routinely carry more than 45 unaffiliated channels, and, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, comply with the 40% limit. Compliance could become more difficult depending on what rules, if any, the FCC
adopts.

Pricing and Packaging

The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the prices that cable operators may charge for basic video service, equipment and installation. These rules do not apply to cable systems that the FCC determines are
subject to effective competition, or where franchising authorities have chosen not to regulate rates. As a result, 74% of our video customers are not subject to rate regulation, and, as of December 31, 2010, we have pending before the FCC
additional petitions for determination of effective competition for systems covering another 4% of our video customers. From time to time, Congress and the FCC consider imposing new pricing or packaging regulations, including proposals that would
require cable operators to offer programming networks on an a la carte or themed-tier basis instead of, or in addition to, our current packaged offerings. As discussed under “Legal Proceedings,” we and others are currently involved in
litigation that could force us and other MVPDs to offer programming networks on an a la carte basis. Additionally, uniform pricing requirements under the Communications Act may affect our ability to respond to increased competition through offers
that aim to retain existing customers or regain those we have lost.

Program Carriage/License Agreements

The Communications Act and FCC rules prohibit cable operators and other MVPDs from requiring a financial interest in, or exclusive distribution
rights for, any video programming network as a condition of carriage, or from unreasonably restraining the ability of an unaffiliated programming network to compete fairly by discriminating against the network on the basis of its non-affiliation in
the selection, terms or conditions for carriage. The FCC is considering proposals to expand its program carriage regulations. The adoption of these proposals could have an adverse effect on our businesses. The NBCUniversal Order also prohibits
discriminating against a network on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage, under a standard that is comparable to existing law, and requires that, if we carry news and/or business news channels in a
channel lineup “neighborhood” (defined as placing a significant number or percentage of news and/or business news channels substantially adjacent to one another in a system channel lineup), we must carry all independent news and business
news channels in that neighborhood. We have been, and currently are, involved in program carriage disputes at the FCC and may continue to be subject to program carriage complaints in the future. Adverse decisions in any such disputes could
negatively affect our business. In addition, the NBCUniversal

Order requires us, on a specified schedule over the next eight years, to add ten new independently owned and operated channels to the digital tier of our cable systems.

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Cable operators are currently required to carry, without compensation, the programming transmitted by most local commercial and noncommercial
television stations. Alternatively, local television stations may choose to negotiate with a cable operator for retransmission consent, under which the station gives up its must-carry right and instead seeks to negotiate a carriage agreement with
the cable operator. Such an agreement may involve payment of compensation to the station. We expect to be subject to increasing demands, including demands for direct monetary compensation and other concessions, by local television stations in
exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of broadcast programming to our video services customers.

Now that
broadcasters have completed their transition from analog to digital transmission, cable operators generally are required to carry the primary digital programming stream of local broadcast stations, as well as an analog version of the primary digital
programming stream on systems that are not all digital. These requirements are scheduled to last until June 12, 2012, subject to possible extensions. For more information on must-carry and retransmission consent issues relating to
NBCUniversal’s broadcast businesses, see “NBCUniversal’s Broadcast Networks and Owned Local Television Stations” below and refer to the “Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” discussion within that section.

Leased Access

The Communications
Act requires a cable system to make available up to 15% of its channel capacity for commercial leased access by third parties to provide programming that may compete with services offered directly by the cable operator. While we have not been
required to devote significant channel capacity to leased access to date, the FCC has adopted rules that dramatically reduce the rates we can charge for leased access channels, although their implementation has been stayed by a federal court pending
the outcome of a challenge brought by us and other cable operators and also has been blocked by the Office of Management and Budget. If implemented, these rules could adversely affect our business by significantly increasing the number of cable
system channels occupied by leased access users and by significantly increasing the administrative burdens and costs associated with complying with such rules.

Cable Equipment

The FCC has adopted regulations aimed at promoting the retail sale of
set-top boxes and other equipment that can be used to receive digital video services. With the exception of certain one-way devices, like the digital transport adapters we have been deploying as part of our all digital conversion, these regulations
prohibit cable operators from deploying new set-top boxes that







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K14






perform both channel navigation and security functions. As a result, most set-top boxes that we purchase must rely on a separate security device known as a CableCARD, which adds to the cost of
set-top boxes. In addition, the FCC has adopted rules aimed at promoting the manufacture of plug-and-play TV sets and other equipment that can connect directly to a cable distribution network system with a CableCARD and receive one-way analog and
digital video services without the need for a set-top box. In 2010, the FCC adopted additional CableCARD regulations that, among other things, require cable operators to provide a credit to customers who use plug-and-play equipment purchased at
retail instead of the set-top box included with an operator’s service package and allow customers with plug-and-play equipment to self-install CableCARDs rather than having to arrange for a professional installation. The FCC also is considering
proposals to supplant CableCARD with another technology that would enable retail video devices to work on any MVPD system, not just a cable system. These proposals could impose substantial costs on us and impair our ability to innovate. In addition,
the NBCUniversal Order requires us to fulfill commitments designed to improve the parental control tools and information available to parents, including navigation and blocking upgrades to certain set-top boxes.

MDUs and Inside Wiring

FCC rules
prohibit exclusive video service access agreements between cable operators and MDUs or other private real estate developments. FCC rules also make unenforceable the exclusivity provisions of our pre-existing access agreements and facilitate
competitors’ access to the cable wiring inside such MDUs.

Pole Attachments

The Communications Act permits the FCC to regulate the rates that pole-owning utility companies (with the exception of municipal utilities and rural
cooperatives) charge cable systems for attachments to their poles. States are permitted to preempt FCC jurisdiction and regulate the terms of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so. Most of these states have
generally followed the FCC’s pole attachment rate standards. The FCC or a state could increase pole attachment rates applicable to cable operators. Additionally, higher pole attachment rates apply to pole attachments that are subject to the
FCC’s telecommunications services pole rates. The applicability of and method for calculating those rates for cable systems over which phone services are transmitted remain unclear, and there is a risk that we could face materially higher pole
attachment costs. Utility companies initiated a proceeding in 2009 at the FCC seeking to apply the telecommunications services pole rate to all poles over which cable operators provide phone services using interconnected VoIP technology, which is
the type of technology we use for our phone services. However, in May 2010, the FCC proposed to reduce the rate for telecommunications service pole attachments down to a level that is at or near the rate for cable attachments; this proposal is
pending.



Franchising

Cable operators generally operate their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or state franchising authorities. While the terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction
to jurisdiction, franchises typically last for a fixed term, obligate the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet service quality, customer service and other requirements, and are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material
provisions. The Communications Act permits franchising authorities to establish reasonable requirements for public, educational and governmental access (“PEG”) programming, and some of our franchises require substantial channel capacity
and financial support for this programming. The NBCUniversal Order contains various PEG-related conditions, including a requirement that we do not migrate PEG channels to digital delivery on our cable system until the system has converted to
all-digital distribution or until the government entity that is responsible for the system’s PEG operations expressly agrees. The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the franchising process, including, among other things,
renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal. We believe that our franchise renewal prospects generally are favorable.

FCC rules establish franchising processes and obligations for new entrants that are different from those applicable to existing providers. For example, these rules limit the range of financial, construction and
other commitments that franchising authorities can request of new entrants and preempt certain local “level playing field” franchising requirements. In addition, approximately half of the states in which we operate have enacted legislation
to provide statewide franchising or to simplify local franchising requirements for new entrants. Some of these statutes also allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the
new entrant provide service to all parts of the franchise area or permitting the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve. Certain of these statutes allow incumbent cable operators to opt into the new state franchise where a
competing state franchise has been issued for the incumbent cable operator’s franchise area. However, even in those states, the incumbent cable operators often are required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than
the new entrant’s state franchise. We believe that we have been and continue to be disadvantaged as a result of these rules and statutes.

Copyright Regulation

In exchange for filing reports and contributing a percentage of
revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool, cable operators can obtain blanket permission to retransmit copyrighted material contained in broadcast signals. The possible modification or elimination of this copyright license is the subject of
ongoing legislative and administrative review. The Satellite Television Extension







15Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






and Localism Act of 2010 (“STELA”) made revisions to a cable operator’s compulsory copyright license to remove a number of uncertainties regarding the license’s operation. In
particular, STELA clarifies that, in exchange for certain additional payments, cable operators can limit the royalty calculation associated with retransmission of an out-of-market broadcast station to those cable subscribers who actually receive the
out-of market station. The new law also clarifies that cable operators must pay additional royalty fees for each digital multicast programming stream from an out-of market broadcast station they retransmit that does not duplicate the content of the
station’s primary stream. It also establishes an audit mechanism for copyright owners to review a cable operator’s copyright royalty reporting practices. STELA requires the preparation of several reports, including a requirement that the
Register of Copyrights, in consultation with the FCC, submit a report to Congress by the end of August 2011 on proposals to phase out the compulsory copyright license for cable and satellite providers. If adopted, a phase-out plan could adversely
affect our ability to obtain certain programming and substantially increase our programming costs.

In addition, we pay standard
industry licensing fees to use music in the programs we create, such as local advertising and local origination programming on our cable systems. The fees we pay to music performance rights organizations are typically renegotiated when we renew
licenses with those organizations, and we cannot predict with certainty what those fees will be in the future or if disputes will arise over them.

High-Speed Internet Services

We provide
high-speed Internet services over our cable distribution system. In 2002, the FCC ruled that high-speed Internet services such as ours are an interstate information service, not subject to regulation as a telecommunications service under federal law
or to state or local utility regulation. However, our high-speed Internet services are subject to a number of regulatory obligations, including compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) requirement
that high-speed Internet service providers implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting surveillance of persons suspected of criminal activity.

The FCC has adopted so-called “open Internet” rules that restrict or prohibit some types of commercial agreements between broadband
Internet service providers (“ISPs”) and providers of Internet content or applications. The regulations require broadband ISPs such as us to disclose information regarding network management, performance and commercial terms of the service,
bar broadband ISPs from blocking access to lawful content, applications, services or non-harmful devices and, in particular, bar wireline broadband ISPs such as us from unreasonably discriminating in transmitting lawful network traffic. The

no-blocking and non-discrimination rules allow for reasonable network management. The FCC has not prohibited speed tiers or usage-based pricing, but has specifically noted that so-called
“paid prioritization” (i.e., charging content, application and service providers for prioritizing their traffic over our last-mile facilities) or an ISP’s prioritizing its own content likely would violate these rules.

Under the NBCUniversal Order and the NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to comply with the open Internet rules regardless of whether
these rules are invalidated in court or otherwise rescinded, and, under the order, those rules will apply to any set-top box we provide that enables a customer to receive broadband Internet access service. In addition, the NBCUniversal Order and
NBCUniversal Consent Decree include various conditions and commitments requiring us to deploy broadband to certain unserved areas, implement a program to improve high-speed Internet adoption among lower-income households, offer all of our high-speed
Internet service speed tiers on a standalone basis at reasonable market-based prices (including offering a service of at least 6 megabits per second downstream at a price of $49.95 monthly for 3 years), maintain a high-speed Internet service of at
least 12 megabits per second downstream across most of our footprint, and not discriminate in how we treat so-called “specialized services” (defined as services we provide over the same last-mile facilities as our high-speed Internet
service, but not including our high-speed Internet service, video services or phone services).

A federal program known as the Universal
Service program generally requires telecommunications service providers to collect and pay a fee based on revenue from their services into a fund used to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and Internet and
telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers. Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that could result in our high-speed Internet services being subject to Universal Service fees and that could also
result in subsidies being provided to our Internet and video competitors. We cannot predict whether or how such proposals will be adopted, or, if they are adopted, how they will affect us.

In addition, Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer
privacy, consumer protection, copyright protection, defamation liability, taxation, obscenity and unsolicited commercial e-mail. State and local governments have also adopted Internet-related regulations. Furthermore, Congress, the FCC and certain
state and local governments are considering proposals to impose customer service, quality of service, taxation, child safety, privacy and standard pricing regulations on high-speed Internet service providers. It is uncertain whether any of these
proposals will be adopted. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws to the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our high-speed Internet business.







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K16






Phone Services

Other Cable Services Regulations

State and Local Taxes

Some states and localities have imposed or are considering
imposing new or additional taxes or fees on the cable services we offer, or imposing adverse methodologies by which taxes or fees are computed. These include combined reporting or other changes to general business taxes, central assessments for
property tax, and taxes and fees on video, high-speed Internet and phone services. We and other cable industry members are challenging certain of these taxes through administrative and court proceedings. In addition, in some situations our DBS
competitors and other competitors that deliver their services over a high-speed Internet connection do not face similar state tax and fee burdens. Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to bar states from imposing taxes on
DBS providers that are equivalent to the taxes or fees that we pay.

Disabilities Access

In October 2010, Congress enacted the 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act. This law gives the FCC the authority to adopt rules
aimed at ensuring that persons with disabilities can access “advanced communications services” and Internet-delivered video. Among other things, the law directs the FCC to adopt regulations mandating accessibility to interconnected VoIP
services such as the phone services we provide, requiring that video programming delivered via Internet Protocol include closed captioning, imposing video description rules on the top four broadcast networks and top five cable programming networks
and requiring that MVPD program guides be accessible to the visually impaired. This law, and any regulations ultimately adopted by the FCC, may impose substantial additional costs and obligations on our businesses.

Cable Programming Networks



Program Access

The Communications Act and FCC rules generally prevent cable programming networks affiliated with cable operators from favoring affiliated cable
operators over competing MVPDs, such as DBS providers and phone companies that offer MVPD services, and limit the ability of these cable programming networks to offer exclusive programming arrangements to affiliated cable operators. The FCC’s
sunset date for this restriction on exclusivity ends on October 5, 2012, although the FCC will evaluate whether it should extend the sunset date beyond October 5, 2012, and we cannot predict whether the FCC will further extend that date.
In addition, in January 2010, the FCC adopted new rules that allow MVPDs to file program access complaints to try to show that their lack of access to a terrestrially-delivered programming network has hindered significantly their ability to deliver
video programming to subscribers. Another MVPD has appealed the new rules to a







17Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






federal appeals court. Regardless of whether the FCC decides to sunset the exclusivity prohibitions in 2012 or whether the appeals court invalidates the new rules for terrestrially-delivered
programming networks, we will be subject to program access obligations under the terms of the NBCUniversal Order

The FCC launched a
rulemaking in 2007 to consider whether companies that own multiple cable networks should be required to make each of their networks available on a stand-alone or “unbundled” basis when negotiating distribution agreements with MVPDs. We
currently offer our cable programming networks on a stand-alone basis. Increased regulatory requirements imposed on the manner in which our cable networks are provided to consumers or the manner in which we negotiate programming distribution
agreements with MVPDs may adversely affect our business.

Under the terms of the NBCUniversal Order, MVPDs can invoke commercial
arbitration pursuant to rules established in the NBCUniversal Order against our cable programming networks, including our regional sports networks and our national and regional cable programming networks. In addition, under the NBCUniversal Order
and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable, broadcast and film programming available to bona fide online video distributors under certain conditions, and they may invoke commercial arbitration pursuant to rules
established in the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree to resolve disputes regarding the availability of, and the terms and conditions of access to, such programming. For more information on these conditions, see
“NBCUniversal’s Broadcast Networks and Owned Local Television Stations” below and refer to the “Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” discussion within that section.

Children’s Programming

The Children’s Television Act (“CTA”) and FCC rules
limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on cable programming networks and broadcast networks during programming originally produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children under 13 years of age. The FCC is
currently considering whether to prohibit interactive advertising during children’s television programming. The NBCUniversal Order includes certain commitments and conditions related to children’s television and advertising directed at
children, including commitments that we will not insert interactive advertising into children’s television programming in any of the spots we control, either as an MVPD or as the programmer, and that we will provide at least $15 million
worth of public service announcements on childhood obesity, FDA nutritional guidelines, digital literacy, and parental controls per year, for each of the next five years.

NBCUniversal’s Broadcast Networks and Owned Local Television Stations



Licensing

The Communications Act permits the operation of local broadcast television stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a
finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms.
Under the Communications Act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum term of eight years. Generally, the FCC renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience
and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and
regulations, which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse.

The FCC imposes other regulations on the provision of programming by television stations. There is a general obligation
for television stations to serve the needs and interests of their local service area. The FCC has had a proceeding open for several years considering the adoption of additional requirements for public service programming, including possible
quantitative requirements for news, public affairs and other local service programming. Under the NBCUniversal Order, we have committed to expand local news and information programming on our owned







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K18






local television stations and to enter into cooperative arrangements with locally focused nonprofit news organizations in certain markets. The FCC also has specific requirements governing
political advertising, requiring, among other things, that broadcasters charge candidates the lowest unit rate charged to other advertisers for the same class of advertising time during the 45 days before a primary and the 60 days before a general
election. There have been proposals introduced in Congress that could expand the discount given to candidates in certain circumstances.

Renewal applications are pending for a number of NBCUniversal’s broadcast television station licenses. The FCC may grant any license renewal
application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted. A station’s authority to operate is automatically extended while a renewal application is on file and under review. Three pending
applications have been formally opposed by third parties and other applications are pending due to unresolved complaints of alleged indecency in the stations’ programming. The Communications Act also requires prior FCC approval for any sale of
a broadcast station license, whether through the assignment of the license and related assets from one company to another or the transfer of control of the stock or other equity of a company holding an FCC license. Third parties may oppose such
applications. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances. Although NBCUniversal has received such renewals and approvals in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary
renewals or that approvals in the future will contain acceptable FCC license conditions.

Ownership Limits

FCC rules and regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have “attributable interests” above specific levels in local
television stations, as well as other specified mass media entities. The FCC, by law, must review the ownership rules detailed below once every four years. The FCC began such a review in 2010, which likely will take several years to complete, and
there is pending litigation relating to these rules. We cannot predict when the FCC’s current review will be completed or whether or how any of these rules will change.

Local Television Ownership

Under the FCC’s local television ownership rule, a
licensee may own up to two broadcast television stations in the same DMA, as long as (i) at least one of the two stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market based on audience share as of the date an application for approval
of an acquisition is filed with the FCC; and (ii) at least eight independently owned and operating full-power broadcast television stations remain in the market following the acquisition. Further, without regard to the number of remaining
independently owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of more than one television station within the same DMA so long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap. Until the closing of the NBCUniversal
transaction,

NBCUniversal had owned three local television stations in the Los Angeles DMA, pursuant to a temporary waiver granted by the FCC. We have placed one of those stations, KWHY-TV, into a divestiture
trust until the station is sold to a third party. On January 24, 2011, NBCUniversal entered into an agreement to sell KWHY-TV to a third party. The divesture trust and the third party filed an application on February 7, 2011 seeking FCC consent
to the sale of KWHY-TV.

National Television Ownership

The Communications Act and FCC rules limit the number of television stations one entity may own or control nationally. Under the rule, no entity may have an attributable interest in broadcast television stations
that reach, in the aggregate, more than 39% of all U.S. television households. NBCUniversal’s owned local television station reach does not exceed this limit.

Foreign Ownership

The Communications Act limits foreign ownership in a broadcast
station to 20% direct ownership and 25% indirect ownership (i.e., through one or more subsidiaries), although the limit on indirect ownership can be waived if the FCC finds it to be in the public interest. These limits have been held to apply to
both voting control and equity, as well as to ownership by any form of entity, including corporations, partnerships and limited liability companies.

Dual Network Rule

The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major television
broadcast networks, ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC, from being under common ownership or control with another of the four.

Digital Television

All of NBCUniversal’s full-power owned local television stations broadcast exclusively in digital format. Digital broadcasting permits a
television station to offer a variety of services using its single 6 MHz channel, such as high-definition video programming, multiple channels of video programming and data transmission, subject to the requirement that each broadcaster must provide
at least one free over-the-air video program signal at least comparable in resolution to the station’s former analog programming transmissions.

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Every
three years, each commercial television station must elect for each cable system in its DMA either must-carry or retransmission consent. Through the period ending December 31, 2011, all of the NBC Network owned local television stations elected
retransmission consent and the Telemundo Network owned local television stations elected must-carry or retransmission consent depending on circumstances within each DMA. Federal law and FCC regulations also establish a must-carry/retransmission
consent election regime for carriage of commercial television stations by satellite providers. Through the period ending December 31,







19Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






2011, substantially all of the NBC Network owned local television stations are being carried by the two major satellite providers pursuant to retransmission consent.

Internet Distribution

Under the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable, broadcast and film programming available
to bona fide online video distributors under certain conditions, and they may invoke commercial arbitration pursuant to rules established in the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree to resolve disputes regarding the availability, and
the terms and conditions of access to, such programming. In addition, we are required to continue distributing via nbc.com programming that is generally equivalent to the programming that we distribute via nbc.com as of January 1, 2011, on
generally equivalent terms and conditions, so long as at least one of the other major broadcast networks continues to distribute some programming in a similar fashion. We also are required to renew our distribution agreement with Hulu if the other
two broadcast network owners of Hulu also renew their agreements, and we must relinquish all voting rights and our board seat in Hulu.

Broadcast Spectrum

The FCC’s National Broadband Plan (the “Plan”) recommends that, as part of an FCC effort to make more spectrum available for mobile wireless broadband, the FCC reallocate up to 120 MHz of spectrum
from the broadcast television bands. Among other things, the Plan recommends updating television service area and distance separation rules, repacking current television station channel assignments (as well as sharing frequencies) and the
reallocation of 120 MHz of spectrum from the broadcast television bands for broadband use.

The Plan urges Congress to authorize
incentive auctions to allow incumbents like broadcast television licensees to turn in spectrum rights and share in auction proceeds. The Plan also calls for authority to assess spectrum fees on commercial, full-power local television stations. Bills
have been introduced in Congress that would authorize the FCC to conduct such incentive auctions and to share the proceeds with the broadcast licensees who relinquish their spectrum for such auctions, but only to the extent such relinquishment is
voluntary on the part of the broadcast licensee. In November 2010, the FCC proposed to allow the sharing of television channels by multiple TV stations, sought input on improving reception in the VHF band and proposed changes to allow fixed and
mobile wireless broadband services in the broadcast television bands. The FCC has emphasized that it does not intend to decrease broadcasters’ carriage rights and that it believes each sharing station will be licensed individually, with the
rights and obligations that accompany that license. We cannot predict whether Congress or the FCC will adopt or implement any of the Plan’s recommendations or the rule changes as proposed or how any such actions might affect our businesses.

Indecency

FCC rules prohibit
the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating this prohibition because the vagueness of the relevant FCC definitions makes it difficult to apply.
The maximum penalty for broadcasting indecent or profane programming is $325,000 per indecent or profane utterance.

Indecency
regulation is the subject of ongoing court review, regarding both the FCC’s “fleeting expletives” policy and the FCC’s definition of what constitutes indecent material. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals recently ruled that the
FCC’s indecency policy is unconstitutional because it is “impermissibly vague.” The FCC is considering asking the Supreme Court to review the case. NBCUniversal from time to time has received and may receive in the future Letters of
Inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on its owned local television stations included indecent or profane material. In addition, some policymakers support the extension of indecency regulations to cable
programming. Increased content regulation, particularly if it is







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K20






vague and difficult to apply, could have an adverse effect on our cable programming and broadcast businesses.

Sponsorship Identification and Advertising

Federal legislation and FCC rules provide that
whenever a broadcast station transmits any programming for which it has received money, service or other valuable consideration, it must provide an accurate on-air identification of the sponsor of the programming. In a proceeding dating to June
2008, the FCC is examining whether “embedded advertising,” such as product placements and product integration, in broadcast programming should be subject to stricter disclosure requirements and whether the sponsorship identification rules
should be extended to cable programming networks. The adoption of some of these proposals could adversely affect our businesses.

The
FTC Guides Concerning the Use of Endorsements and Testimonials require that any material connection between the advertiser and the endorser that is not reasonably expected by the audience must be disclosed and that all claims made through
endorsements be truthful and substantiated when made. These requirements apply to traditional advertising, as well as sponsored on-air patter, talk show discussions and blogs. Advertising practices inconsistent with these guides may result in
enforcement action by the FTC, typically against the advertiser and/or the endorser, although there is a possibility that a broadcaster may also face legal liability in certain cases.

International Regulation

International regulation of television broadcasting varies widely
according to jurisdiction and includes regulation of such areas as programming and advertising. In the European Union (“EU”), the Audio Visual Media Services Directive establishes minimum levels of regulation across all EU member states
focused on content and advertising. This directive extends regulation to nonlinear television services, establishes a “country of origin principle,” which determines the relevant regulatory jurisdiction for each service, and sets quotas
where practicable for European programming and programming by independent producers. EU countries are free to impose stricter regulation in certain areas and have taken different approaches to imposing such quotas. The majority of our European
channels are under United Kingdom jurisdiction as the country of origin and therefore subject to regulation by its regulator. Changes to implementation of the country of origin principle or quotas could adversely affect our international television
broadcast business.

Filmed Entertainment



United States

NBCUniversal’s filmed entertainment business is subject to the provisions of so-called “trade practice laws” in effect in 25 states
and Puerto Rico relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. These laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain
instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. Further, under various consent judgments, federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair competition laws, NBCUniversal’s motion
picture company and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on trade practices in the United States, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis. In
December 2009, the FTC issued a report calling for stronger industry safeguards applicable to the marketing of violent movies to children, and concluding that movie studios intentionally market PG-13 movies to children under 13 and that unrated DVDs
undermine the Motion Picture Academy of America’s rating system and confuse parents. The FTC has not called for regulation or enforcement against movie studios, but any such government action in this area could have a negative impact on
NBCUniversal’s filmed entertainment business.

International

In countries outside the United States, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect NBCUniversal’s ability to distribute and/or license motion picture and
television products, as well as consumer merchandise products, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, film screen quotas, television quotas, regulation of content, regulated contract terms,
product safety and labeling requirements, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of U.S. products. The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is
regulated under various international agreements, including the World Trade Organization’s General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and General Agreement on Trade and Services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to
preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the European Union.

Theme Parks



NBCUniversal’s theme parks business is
subject to regulation at the international, federal, state and local levels, including laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, privacy and data protection, consumer product safety and theme park operations, such as health,
sanitation, safety and fire standards and liquor licenses.







21Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






Other Areas of Regulation



Intellectual Property and Piracy

Copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and Internet/domain laws of the United States and other countries help protect our
intellectual property rights. In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution of counterfeit DVDs, peer-to-peer file sharing and other platforms presents challenges for our cable programming, broadcast and filmed
entertainment businesses. The unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of copyrighted material over the Internet or through other methods of distribution, such as through devices, software or websites that allow the reproduction, viewing,
sharing and/or downloading of content by either ignoring or interfering with the content’s security features and copyrighted status, interferes with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to exploit our content. The extent of
copyright protection and the use of technological protections, such as encryption, are controversial. Modifications to existing laws that weaken these protections could have an adverse effect on our ability to license and sell our programming.

In October 2008, the Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property Act of 2007 (the “PRO-IP Act”) was
signed into law in the United States. The PRO-IP Act increases both civil and criminal penalties for counterfeiting and piracy of intellectual property associated with works of music and film (among others); provides enhanced resources to law
enforcement agencies for enforcing intellectual property rights; criminalizes the exportation of counterfeited goods; and creates an “Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator,” a Senate-confirmed Presidential appointee responsible for
developing government-wide enforcement policy, coordinating the enforcement efforts of U.S. departments and agencies and coordinating the preparation of a plan to reduce counterfeit and infringing goods in the U.S. and international supply chain. In
September 2010, the Combating Online Infringement and Counterfeits Act was introduced by the Senate Judiciary Committee. The bill would give the Department of Justice the power to shut down websites found to be offering infringing content by
requiring domain name registrars to suspend the domain names of the offending sites and taking other actions to prevent third parties from providing certain services to such sites.

While many legal protections exist to combat piracy, laws in the United States and internationally continue to evolve, as do technologies used to
evade these laws. NBCUniversal has actively engaged in the enforcement of its intellectual property rights, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content. The repeal of laws intended to combat piracy
and protect intellectual property or weakening of such laws or enforcement in the United States or internationally, or a failure of existing laws to adapt to new technologies, could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our
intellectual property rights,

negatively impacting their value and further increasing the costs of enforcing our rights.

Privacy and Security Regulation

The
Communications Act generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of cable customers’ personally identifiable information by cable operators. There are exceptions that permit such collection and disclosure for
rendering service, conducting legitimate business activities related to the service, and responding to legal requests. The Communications Act also provides privacy protections for customer proprietary network information, or CPNI, related to our
digital phone services. Several states and the District of Columbia have enacted privacy laws that apply to cable services.

The FTC has
begun to exercise greater authority over privacy protections generally, using its existing authority over unfair and deceptive practices and other public proceedings to apply greater restrictions on the collection and use of personally identifiable
and other information relating to consumers. In December 2010, the FTC staff issued a draft recommendation that privacy rules should address consumer concerns over the collection and use of personal and profiling information, even in the absence of
demonstrated consumer harm. In a December 2010 report, the Commerce Department also suggested an expansion of privacy protections, although with greater reliance on enforceable industry codes. Legislation has also been introduced in Congress that
would regulate the use of personal and profiling information for advertising. In addition, the FTC is reviewing its implementation of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (“COPPA”). COPPA imposes requirements on website
operators and online services that are aimed at children under 13 years of age, that collect personal information from children under 13 years of age or that knowingly post personal information from children under 13 years of age. The FTC is
considering whether to expand the reach of its COPPA rules to interactive TV and online behavioral advertising; such changes, if adopted, could have an adverse impact on our businesses to the extent our networks and websites offer content targeted
to children and teens.

We are also subject to state and federal rules and laws regarding information security. Most of these rules and
laws apply to customer information that could be used to commit identity theft. Substantially all of the U.S. states and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach notification laws. These laws generally require that a business give
notice to its customers whose financial account information has been disclosed because of a security breach. The FTC is applying the “red flag rules” in the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 to both financial institutions
and creditors, and we may be considered to be a creditor under the FTC’s interpretation of the rules.

We are also subject to state
and federal “do not call” laws regarding telemarketing and state and federal laws regarding unsolicited







Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K22






commercial e-mails. Additional and more restrictive requirements may be imposed if and to the extent that state or local authorities establish their own privacy or security standards or if
Congress enacts new privacy or security legislation.

Advertising Restrictions

Legislation has been introduced and reports from various government agencies have been issued from time to time urging that restrictions be placed
on advertisements for particular products or services, including prescription drugs and the marketing of food or violent entertainment to children. We are unable to predict whether such reports will result in legislative proposals, whether
legislative proposals may be adopted, or, if adopted, what impact they will have on our businesses.

Environmental Matters

Certain of our business operations are subject to local, state and federal environmental laws and regulations and involve air emissions, wastewater
discharges, and the use, disposal and cleanup of toxic and hazardous substances. Any failure to comply with environmental requirements could result in monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims or other costs or liabilities.
NBCUniversal has been responsible for the cleanup of environmental contamination at some of its current and former facilities and at off-site waste disposal locations, although its share of the cost of such cleanups to date has not been material.
Environmental requirements have become more stringent over time, and pending or proposed new regulations could impact our operations or costs. For example, climate change regulation, such as proposed greenhouse gas emissions limits or cap and trade
programs, could result in an increase in the cost of electricity, which is a significant component of our operational costs at some locations. We are unable to accurately predict how these requirements might be changed in the future and how any such
changes might affect our businesses.

Other FCC Regulations

The FCC actively regulates other aspects of our businesses, including the mandatory blackout of syndicated, network and sports programming; customer service standards; political advertising; Emergency Alert System
requirements for analog and digital services; origination cablecasting (i.e., programming locally originated by and under the control of the cable operator); equal employment opportunity; lottery programming; recordkeeping and public file access
requirements; telemarketing; technical standards relating to operation of the cable network; and regulatory fees. We are unable to predict how these regulations might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our businesses. In
addition, while we believe that we are in substantial compliance with FCC rules, we are occasionally subject to enforcement actions at the FCC, which can result in our having to pay fines to the agency.

Employees

As of December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 102,000 employees, including part-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 86,000 were associated with our Cable business and the remainder were
associated with our Programming and other businesses. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 4,000 of our employees (including part-time employees) were covered by collective bargaining agreements or had organized but were not covered by
collective bargaining agreements. We believe we have good relationships with our employees.

Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and
make informed investment decisions. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance, including as a result of the NBCUniversal transaction. In some cases, you can identify these
so-called “forward-looking statements” by words such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the
negative of these words, and other comparable words. You should be aware that these statements are only our predictions. In evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties listed in “Risk
Factors” and in other reports we file with the SEC.

Additionally, we operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly
changing environment. The environment is affected by government regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and services; technological developments; and, particularly in view of
new technologies, the ability to develop and protect intellectual property rights. Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements or as a result of any of such factors, which could adversely affect our business,
results of operations or financial condition. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.







23Comcast 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K






