Item 1: Business

We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have
developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963. In 2011, we acquired control of the businesses of NBCUniversal from General Electric Company (the “NBCUniversal transaction”), and in 2013, we acquired the remaining 49% common
equity interest in NBCUniversal, LLC (“NBCUniversal Holdings”) that we did not already own.

We present our operations for
Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments. The Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks segments
comprise the NBCUniversal businesses (collectively, the “NBCUniversal segments”).



•Cable Communications:Consists of the operations of Comcast Cable, which is the nation’s largest provider of video, high-speed Internet and voice
services (“cable services”) to residential customers under the XFINITY brand; we also provide similar and other services to small and medium-sized businesses and sell advertising.



•Cable Networks:Consists primarily of our national cable networks, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, and our
cable television production operations.



•Broadcast Television:Consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our 10 NBC and 17 Telemundo owned local broadcast television
stations, and our broadcast television production operations.



•Filmed Entertainment:Consists primarily of the studio operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed
entertainment worldwide.



•Theme Parks:Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California.

Our other business interests consist primarily of Comcast-Spectacor, which owns the
Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and operates arena management-related businesses.

In
2014, our Cable Communications segment generated 64% of our consolidated revenue and 79% of our operating income before depreciation and amortization.

For financial and other information about our reportable business segments, refer to Note 18 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements and Note 17 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

For additional information on general developments of our business, see Item 7,
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.





1Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Proposed Merger and Divestiture Transactions

On February 12, 2014, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “merger agreement”) with Time Warner Cable Inc. (“Time Warner Cable”) whereby Time Warner Cable will become our
wholly owned subsidiary (the “Time Warner Cable merger”). Time Warner Cable is among the largest providers of video, high-speed Internet and voice services in the United States, located mainly in five geographic areas: New York State
(including New York City), the Carolinas, the Midwest (including Ohio, Kentucky and Wisconsin), Southern California (including Los Angeles) and Texas. We expect the Time Warner Cable merger to close in early 2015. As of December 31, 2014, Time
Warner Cable had 11.0 million video customers, 12.3 million high-speed Internet customers and 5.6 million voice customers. On April 25, 2014, in connection with the merger agreement, we entered into an agreement with Charter
Communications, Inc. (“Charter”) that, among other things, would result in a net disposition of approximately 3.7 million video subscribers with an expected closing 30 to 60 days following the close of the Time Warner Cable merger.
Both transactions are subject to regulatory approval and other customary conditions. For additional information about these transactions, see Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Available Information and Websites

Comcast’s phone number is (215) 286-1700, and its principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA
19103-2838. NBCUniversal’s phone number is (212) 664-4444, and its principal executive offices are located at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, NY 10112-0015. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Comcast and NBCUniversal’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange
Act”), are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on Comcast’s website at www.comcastcorporation.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information
posted on our websites is not incorporated into our SEC filings.





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K2




Description of Our Businesses

Cable Communications Segment



The table below summarizes certain customer and penetration data for our cable system operations.



December 31 (in millions)20142013201220112010Homes and businesses passed(a)54.753.853.252.551.9Total customer relationships(b)27.026.726.5Single product
customers(b)8.48.89.3Double product
customers(b)8.88.58.5Triple product
customers(b)9.99.48.6VideoVideo
customers(c)Billable customers method22.422.622.8EBU method21.722.022.322.8Video
penetration(d)40.9%41.9%43.0%42.5%43.9%Digital video
customers(e)22.222.422.220.619.7Digital video
penetration(e)99.4%99.1%97.1%92.0%86.6%High-speed InternetHigh-speed Internet customers(c)22.020.719.418.117.0High-speed Internet penetration(d)40.2%38.4%36.4%34.6%32.7%VoiceVoice
customers(c)11.210.710.09.38.6Voice penetration(d)20.5%19.9%18.7%17.8%16.6%

Basis of Presentation: Customer metrics include our residential and business customers. Information related to cable
system acquisitions is included from the date acquired. Information related to cable systems sold or exchanged is excluded for all periods presented. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to
rounding.



(a)Homes and businesses are considered passed if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the transmission lines. Homes and
businesses passed is an estimate based on the best available information.



(b)Customer relationships represent the number of residential and business customers that subscribe to at least one of our cable services. Single product, double
product and triple product customers represent customers that subscribe to one, two or three of our cable services, respectively. Customer relationship metrics are not available prior to December 31, 2012.



(c)Beginning in 2014, our Cable Communications segment revised the methodology it uses for counting and reporting customers who reside in multiple dwelling units
(“MDUs”) and are billed under bulk contracts (the “billable customers method”). For MDUs whose residents have the ability to receive additional cable services, such as additional programming choices or our high-definition video
(“HD”) or digital video recorder (“DVR”) advanced services, we now count and report customers based on the number of potential billable relationships within each MDU. For MDUs whose residents are not able to receive additional
cable services, the MDU is now counted as a single customer. Previously, we had counted and reported these customers on an equivalent billing unit basis by dividing monthly revenue received under an MDU’s bulk contract by the standard monthly
residential rate where the MDU was located (the “EBU method”). We believe the billable customers method is consistent with the methodology used by other companies in our industry to count and report customers.

The table above presents the total number of video customers and digital video customers as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012
and high-speed Internet and voice customers as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 using the billable customers method. The total number of video customers as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are also presented using the EBU method to show an
appropriate comparison. Because the difference in the total number of customers using the billable customers method and the EBU method for high-speed Internet and voice customers was not material, the December 31, 2012 metrics for high-speed
Internet and voice customers are presented using the EBU method. The customer and penetration data as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 has not been adjusted for video, digital video, high-speed Internet or voice.



(d)Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes and businesses passed.



(e)Digital video customers include customers receiving digital signals through any means, including CableCARDs and digital transport adapters. Digital video
penetration is calculated by dividing the number of digital video customers by total video customers.





3Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Cable Services

We offer a variety of cable services over our cable distribution system to residential and business customers. Subscription rates and related charges vary according to the services and features customers receive
and the type of equipment they use, and customers are typically billed in advance on a monthly basis. Residential cable services customers may generally discontinue service at any time, while business customers may only discontinue service in
accordance with the terms of their contracts, which typically have 2 to 5 year terms.

The Areas We Serve

The map below highlights our footprint as of December 31, 2014 and the designated market areas (“DMAs”) in which we offer cable
services that have 125,000 or more video customers. The number of high-speed Internet customers in these DMAs is substantially similar to the number of our video customers. The locations that are bolded represent the markets we operate in that are
also included in the top 25 U.S. TV markets as of December 31, 2014.







Video Services

We offer a broad variety of video services under the XFINITY brand, with access to hundreds of channels depending on the customer’s level of service. Our levels of service typically range from a limited basic
service with access to between 20 and 40 channels to a full digital service with access to over 300 channels. Our video services generally include programming provided by national broadcast networks, local broadcast stations, and national and
regional cable networks, as well as governmental and public access programming. Our digital video services generally include access to our On Demand service and an interactive, on-screen program guide. We also offer packages that include extensive
amounts of foreign-language programming, and we offer other specialty tiers of programming with sports, family and international themes. We tailor our video services for a particular geographic area according to applicable local and federal
regulatory requirements, programming preferences and demographics.

Our video customers may also subscribe to premium network
programming. Premium networks include cable networks such as HBO, Showtime, Starz and Cinemax that generally offer, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and taped sporting events and concerts, and other features.

Our On Demand service provides our digital video customers with almost 55,000 programming choices, including 20,000 in high definition.
A substantial portion of our On Demand content is available to our digital





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K4




video customers at no additional charge. Digital video customers who subscribe to a premium network have access to the premium network’s On Demand content without additional fees. Our
On Demand service also allows our video customers to view, in most cases for a specified fee, individual new release movies and special-event programs, such as sporting events and concerts. We plan to continue increasing the number of On Demand
choices available, including the number of movies and television shows that can be purchased to own electronically.

Our HD service
provides customers with high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format through an HD set-top box. Our HD service includes a broad selection of HD programming choices, including major broadcast networks, national
cable networks, premium networks and regional sports networks. Our DVR service allows digital video customers to record and store programs on their set-top box and play them at whatever time is convenient. Our DVR service also provides the ability
to pause and rewind live television.

Our video customers may view certain live programming and On Demand content, browse program
listings, and schedule and manage DVR recordings through our XFINITY online portal. We also have invested in our IP and cloud-enabled video platform, referred to as our X1 platform, which is now available in all of the markets in which we operate.
The X1 platform provides integrated search functionality, personalized recommendations and apps accessible through televisions. In 2014, we began to offer Cloud DVR technology, which is now available in over 50% of our markets. Cloud DVR technology
allows our video customers to record television shows and movies from their home using cloud-based servers and then view those recordings on mobile devices via our mobile apps.

Video customers may also subscribe to our Streampix service that, depending on the customer’s level of service, may include a monthly fee.
Streampix provides customers with access to certain programming via On Demand, online and through our mobile apps.

High-Speed Internet
Services

We offer a variety of high-speed Internet services with downstream speeds of up to 105 Mbps, and we also have introduced
downstream speeds of up to 505 Mbps in limited markets. These services also include our XFINITY online portal and mobile apps, which provide access to email, contacts and calendars, as well as online security features. In addition, we are actively
deploying wireless gateways, which combine a customer’s wireless router, cable modem and voice adapter, to improve the performance of multiple Internet-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, provide faster Internet speeds and
create an in-home Wi-Fi network. We are continuing to expand our network of outdoor, business and in-home Wi-Fi hotspots for most of our high-speed Internet customers to access our high-speed Internet services inside and outside the home, and there
are currently 8.3 million hotspots accessible to most of our customers.

Voice Services

We offer voice service plans using an interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) technology. Our plans provide either
usage-based or unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling and include options for international calling plans, voicemail, voicemail transcriptions, text messaging, caller ID and call waiting. For customers with our high-speed Internet
services, our voice services also include the ability to access and manage voicemail, text messaging and other account features through our XFINITY online portal or our mobile apps.

Business Services

We offer our cable services to small (up to 20 employees) and
medium-sized (up to 500 employees) businesses (“business services”). In addition to the features we provide to our residential cable services customers, our services for business customers include an interactive tool that allows customers
to share,





5Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




coordinate and store documents online, hosted voice services that use cloud network servers, a business directory listing, and the added capacity for multiple phone lines.

We also offer our medium-sized business customers advanced voice services and Ethernet network services that connect multiple locations and provide
higher downstream speed options, and we offer cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators to help those customers manage network bandwidth.

Advertising

As part of our distribution
agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on cable networks that our Spotlight business sells to local, regional and national advertisers. In most cases, the available advertising units are sold
by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising units allocated to us. We also represent the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers
in some markets. In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising online and on our On Demand service.

Other Revenue Sources

We receive revenue related to cable franchise and other regulatory fees and our home security and automation services. Cable
franchise and other regulatory fees represent the fees we are required to pay to federal, state and local authorities that we pass through to our customers. Under the terms of our cable franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay to the
cable franchising authority an amount based on our gross video revenue. Our home security and automation services provide our customers with home monitoring services and the ability to manage other functions within the home, such as lighting and
climate control, through our XFINITY online portal or our mobile apps. We also receive revenue related to our digital media center and commissions from electronic retailing networks.

Technology

Our cable distribution system uses a hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network
that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements. This network provides the two-way transmissions that are essential to providing interactive video services, such as On Demand, and high-speed
Internet and voice services. We are also leveraging our network to develop and deliver innovative services to our customers efficiently and in an accelerated fashion.

We continue to focus on technology initiatives, such as:



•developing and launching next-generation media and content delivery platforms, such as our X1 platform and Cloud DVR technology that use IP technology and our
own cloud network servers to deliver video and advanced search capabilities, allow access to certain third-party apps via the Internet and allows for integration with our home security and automation services



•developing and launching wireless options such as Wi-Fi to extend our services inside and outside the home; and deploying wireless gateways that improve the
performance of multiple Internet-enabled devices used at the same time within the home, allow for more activity on these devices and provide faster Internet speeds



•developing multiple tools to recapture bandwidth and optimize our network to allow for faster Internet speeds and capacity, including using advanced video
encoding and digital compression technologies and DOCSIS innovations, such as DOCSIS 3.1



•developing and deploying technology and software that allow us to:



•better identify and resolve problems with our cable services and better integrate our software with third-party software





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K6




•provide customers with the ability to subscribe to our cable services via the Internet, to perform self-diagnostics and to resolve problems with our cable
services



•better serve our customers and our in-home technicians

Sources of Supply

To offer our video services, we license a substantial portion of our programming from cable networks and broadcast networks, as well as from local broadcast television stations. We attempt to secure long-term
programming distribution agreements with our content providers. We also license individual programs or packages of programs from programming suppliers for our On Demand and streaming services. We seek to include in our distribution agreements the
right to offer such programming to our subscribers through multiple delivery platforms that may be used in a variety of locations, such as through On Demand, our XFINITY online portal and our mobile apps.

Our video programming expenses are affected by the programming license fees charged by cable networks, the fees we pay for retransmission of the
signals from local broadcast television stations, the number of video customers we serve and the amount of content we provide. We anticipate that our programming expenses will continue to increase as we provide additional content to our customers;
as we deliver this content through an increasing number of platforms, including On Demand, online and our mobile apps; and as the fees we pay increase, primarily from retransmission consent fees and sports programming costs. We believe that adding
more content and delivering it on various platforms will help us attract and retain video customers.

We purchase from a limited number
of suppliers a significant number of set-top boxes and certain other customer premise equipment, network equipment and services that we use to provide our cable services.

For our high-speed Internet services, we license software products, such as email and security software, and content, such as news feeds for our XFINITY online portal, from a variety of suppliers. Under our
contracts with these suppliers, we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share basis in the case of content licenses.

For our voice services, we license software products such as voicemail and text messaging from a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts.
The fees we pay are generally based on the consumption of the related services.

We use two primary vendors to provide customer billing
for our cable services.

Customer and Technical Services

Our customer service call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability, telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and
upgrades to our cable distribution system.

Sales and Marketing

We offer our services directly to residential and business customers through our customer service call centers, customer service centers, door-to-door selling, direct mail advertising, television advertising,
Internet advertising, local media advertising, telemarketing and retail outlets. We market our cable services both individually and as bundled services.





7Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




NBCUniversal Segments



Cable Networks

Our Cable Networks segment consists of a diversified portfolio of national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and
information, and sports content, our regional sports and news networks, various international cable networks, and our cable television production operations. We also own various digital media properties, which primarily include brand-aligned
websites.

The table below presents a summary of our national cable networks.



Cable NetworkApproximate U.S.Subscribers
atDecember 31, 2014(in
millions)(a)Description of ProgrammingUSA Network96General entertainmentSyfy95Imagination-based entertainmentMSNBC95News and informationE!94Entertainment and pop cultureCNBC94Business and financial newsBravo92Entertainment, culture and artsNBC Sports Network81SportsGolf Channel79Golf competition and golf entertainmentOxygen78Women’s interestsEsquire Network70Men’s lifestyle and entertainmentSprout58Children’s entertainmentChiller39Horror and suspenseCNBC World38Global financial newsUniversal HD31General entertainment HD programmingCloo26Crime, mystery and suspense



(a)Subscriber data is based on The Nielsen Company’s January 2015 report, which is derived from information available during the period December 22,
2014 through December 28, 2014, except for Universal HD, which is derived from information provided by multichannel video providers.

The regional sports and news networks in our Cable Networks segment together serve more than 29 million subscribers across the United States, including key markets such as Baltimore/Washington, Boston,
Chicago, Philadelphia, Portland, Sacramento and San Francisco.

We market and distribute our cable network programming in the United
States and internationally to multichannel video providers, as well as to subscription video on demand services such as Netflix, Amazon and Hulu. These distributors may exhibit our content on television, including via video on demand and
pay-per-view, online and through mobile apps.

Our cable networks produce their own programs or acquire programming rights from third
parties. Our cable television production operations identify, develop and produce original content for cable television and other distribution platforms for our cable networks and third parties. We license this content to cable networks, broadcast
networks and subscription video on demand services.

Our Cable Networks segment generates revenue primarily from the distribution of our
cable network programming and from the sale of advertising. Distribution revenue is generated from distribution agreements with multichannel video providers. Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising units on our cable networks
and related digital media properties. We also generate content licensing and other revenue primarily





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K8




from the licensing of our owned programming through distribution to subscription video on demand services and various other distribution platforms in the United States and internationally, and
from the sale of our owned programming electronically through digital distributors such as iTunes.

Broadcast Television

Our Broadcast Television segment operates the NBC and Telemundo broadcast television networks, which together serve audiences and advertisers in all
50 states. Our Broadcast Television segment also includes our owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast television stations and our broadcast television production operations.

Our Broadcast Television segment generates revenue primarily from the sale of advertising, from content licensing and from fees received under retransmission consent agreements. Advertising revenue is generated
from the sale of advertising units on our broadcast networks, owned local broadcast television stations and related digital media properties. Content licensing revenue is generated from the licensing of our owned programming in the United States and
internationally, including to cable and broadcast networks and to subscription video on demand services. Our owned local television stations receive fees from multichannel video providers in exchange for retransmission consent that allows carriage
of the stations’ signals. We also receive a portion of the retransmission fees received by our NBC affiliated broadcast television stations. We expect these fees to continue to increase in the future as we, as well as our NBC affiliated
broadcast television stations, renegotiate distribution agreements with multichannel video providers. We also generate revenue from the sale of our owned programming on standard-definition DVDs and Blu-ray discs (together, “DVDs”) and
electronically through digital distributors such as iTunes.

NBC Network

The NBC network distributes more than 5,000 hours of entertainment, news and sports programming annually, and its programs reach viewers in
virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States, including our 10 NBC owned local broadcast television stations. The NBC network develops a broad range of entertainment, news and sports
content and also airs a variety of special-events programming. The NBC network’s programming library consists of rights of varying nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including current and classic titles,
unscripted programming, sports, news, long-form and short-form programming, and locally produced programming from around the world. In addition, the NBC network owns various digital media properties, which primarily include brand-aligned websites.

The NBC network produces its own programs or acquires the rights to programming from third parties. NBCUniversal has various
contractual commitments for the licensing of rights to multiyear programming, primarily sports programming. Our most significant sports programming commitments include an agreement with the NFL to produce and broadcast a specified number of regular
season and playoff games, includingSunday Night Footballon NBC through the 2022-23 season and the 2015, 2018 and 2021 Super Bowl games. In addition, the NBC network owns the U.S. broadcast rights for the summer and winter Olympic Games
through 2032. We also have broadcast rights to a specified number of NHL games through the 2020-21 season, U.S. television rights to English Premier League soccer through the 2015-16 season, certain PGA TOUR golf events through 2021 and certain
NASCAR events through 2024. NBCUniversal’s sports programming agreements also include rights to distribute content on our national cable networks, including NBC Sports Network and Golf Channel, on our regional sports networks where applicable,
and also online, including through our mobile apps.

Our broadcast television production operations develop and produce original
content, including scripted and unscripted series and talk shows. This original content is licensed to broadcast networks, cable networks and local broadcast television stations owned by us and third parties, as well as to subscription video on
demand





9Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




services, and it is sold in DVD format, both in the United States and internationally, and electronically through digital distributors. We also produce first-run syndicated shows, which are
programs for initial exhibition on local broadcast television stations in the United States, on a market-by-market basis, without prior exhibition on a network. We currently distribute some of our television programs after their initial exhibition,
as well as older television programs from our library, to local broadcast television stations and cable networks in the off-network syndication market.

NBC Local Broadcast Television Stations

We own and operate 10 NBC affiliated
local broadcast television stations that as of December 31, 2014 collectively reached 32 million U.S. television households, which represents approximately 27% of all U.S. television households. In addition to airing the NBC network’s
national programming, our local broadcast television stations produce news, sports, public affairs and other programming that addresses local needs and acquire syndicated programming from other sources. The table below presents a summary of the NBC
affiliated local broadcast television stations that we own and operate.



DMA Served(a)StationGeneral Market 
Rank(b)Percentage of U.S.Television Households(c)New York, NYWNBC16%Los Angeles, CAKNBC25%Chicago, ILWMAQ33%Philadelphia, PAWCAU43%Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXAS52%San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKNTV62%Washington, D.C.WRC82%Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FLWTVJ161%San Diego, CAKNSD281%Hartford, CTWVIT301%



(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.



(b)General market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among the 210 generally recognized DMAs in the United States based on Nielsen estimates for the
2014-15 season.



(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2014-15 season. The percentage of U.S. television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach
under the Federal Communications Commission’s (“FCC”) national television ownership cap limits. See “Legislation and Regulation — Broadcast Television — Ownership Limits — National Television Ownership.”

Telemundo

Telemundo is a leading Hispanic media company that produces, acquires and distributes Spanish-language content in the United States and internationally. Telemundo’s operations include the Telemundo network,
its 17 owned local broadcast television stations and the NBC Universo (formerly mun2) national cable network.

The Telemundo network is
a leading Spanish-language broadcast television network featuring original telenovelas, theatrical films, news, specials and sporting events. Telemundo develops original programming primarily through its production studio and also acquires the
rights to content from third parties. We currently hold the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights to FIFA World Cup soccer from 2015 through 2022 and the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights for the NFL games that the NBC network will broadcast
through the 2022-23 season as part of our agreement with the NFL.





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K10




Telemundo Local Broadcast Television Stations

As of December 31, 2014, Telemundo owned 17 local broadcast television stations, including 16 local broadcast television stations affiliated
with the Telemundo network and an independent television station in Puerto Rico. The table below presents a summary of these local broadcast television stations, which collectively reached approximately 59% of U.S. Hispanic television households as
of December 31, 2014.



DMA Served(a)StationHispanic Market 
Rank(b)Percentage of U.S.Hispanic TelevisionHouseholds(c)Los Angeles, CAKVEA113%New York, NYWNJU210%Miami, FLWSCV35%Houston, TXKTMD44%Chicago, ILWSNS54%Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXTX64%San Antonio, TXKVDA(d)73%San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKSTS83%Phoenix, AZKTAZ93%Harlingen-Brownsville-McAllen, TXKTLM102%Fresno, CAKNSO(d)142%Philadelphia, PAWWSI162%Denver, COKDEN172%Boston, MAWNEU(d)221%Las Vegas, NVKBLR241%Tucson, AZKHRR251%Puerto RicoWKAQ——



(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.



(b)Hispanic market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among approximately 14.5 million U.S. Hispanic households as of December 31, 2014.



(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2014-15 season. The percentage of U.S. Hispanic television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience
reach under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits. See “Legislation and Regulation — Broadcast Television — Ownership Limits — National Television Ownership.”



(d)Operated by a third party that provides certain non-network programming and operations services under a time brokerage agreement.

Filmed Entertainment

Our Filmed Entertainment segment produces, acquires, markets and distributes both live-action and animated filmed entertainment worldwide, and it also develops, produces and licenses live stage plays.

We produce films both on our own and jointly with other studios or production companies, as well as with other entities. Our films are produced
primarily under the Universal Pictures, Focus Features and Illumination names. Our films are marketed and distributed worldwide primarily through our own marketing and distribution companies. We also acquire distribution rights to films produced by
others, which may be limited to particular geographic regions, specific forms of media or certain periods of time. Our content consists of theatrical films, direct-to-video titles and our film library, which is comprised of more than 5,000 titles in
a variety of genres.

We have entered into, and may continue to enter into, film cofinancing arrangements with third parties, including
both studio and nonstudio entities, to jointly finance or distribute certain of our film productions. These arrangements can take various forms, but in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an investor. Investors
generally assume the full risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film.





11Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




The majority of our produced and acquired films are initially distributed for exhibition in movie
theaters. After their release in movie theaters, we sell and license our films through various methods. We distribute our films globally by selling them in DVD format to retail stores, rental kiosks and subscription by mail services and by selling
electronic copies through digital distributors and the video on demand services provided by multichannel video providers, including our Cable Communications segment. We also license our films, including selections from our film library, to cable,
broadcast and premium networks, to subscription video on demand services, and to video on demand and pay-per-view services. The volume of our content that is made available through subscription video on demand services is increasing as consumers
continue to seek alternative ways to view our content.

Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenue primarily from the worldwide
distribution of our produced and acquired films for exhibition in movie theaters, from the licensing of our owned and acquired films through various distribution platforms, and from the sale of our owned and acquired films in home entertainment
formats, such as DVDs, and electronically through digital distributors. Our Filmed Entertainment segment also generates revenue from producing and licensing live stage plays, from the distribution of filmed entertainment produced by third parties,
and from a movie ticketing and entertainment business.

Theme Parks

Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando, Florida and Hollywood, California. Universal Orlando includes two theme parks, Universal Studios Florida and Universal’s
Islands of Adventure, as well as CityWalk, a dining, retail and entertainment complex. Universal Orlando also features on-site themed hotels in which we own a noncontrolling interest. Our Universal theme park in Hollywood, California consists
primarily of Universal Studios Hollywood. In addition, we license the right to use the Universal Studios brand name and other intellectual property, and also provide other services, to third parties that own and operate the Universal Studios Japan
theme park in Osaka, Japan and the Universal Studios Singapore theme park on Sentosa Island, Singapore. We also own a water park, Wet ‘n Wild, in Orlando, Florida.

Our Theme Parks segment licenses the right to use a substantial amount of intellectual property from third parties for its themed elements in rides, attractions, retail outlets and merchandising.

Our Theme Parks segment generates revenue primarily from theme park attendance and per capita spending at our Universal Orlando and Hollywood theme
parks. Per capita spending includes ticket price and in-park spending on food, beverages and merchandise. Our Theme Parks segment also receives fees from the third parties that own and operate Universal Studios Japan and Universal Studios Singapore
for intellectual property licenses and other services.

Competition



All of our businesses operate in intensely
competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services and entertainment, news and information products and services to
consumers. Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape for all of our businesses by challenging existing business models and affecting consumer behavior.

Cable Communications

Competition for our
video services consists primarily of direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) providers, which have a national footprint and compete in all of our service areas, and phone companies with fiber-based networks, which overlap approximately 55% of
our service areas and are continuing to expand their fiber-based networks. Our high-speed Internet services primarily compete with phone companies with fiber-based networks, which overlap approximately 60% of our service areas and also are
continuing to expand their





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K12




fiber-based networks. Many of these competitors offer features, pricing and packaging for these services, individually and in bundles, comparable to the pricing and services we offer. There also
continue to be new companies, some with significant financial resources, that potentially may compete on a larger scale with some or all of our cable services. For example, companies continue to emerge that provide Internet streaming and downloading
of video programming, some of which charge a nominal or no fee, and Google is providing high-speed Internet and video services in a limited number of areas in which we operate and recently announced plans to expand into additional geographical
areas. Moreover, wireless technology, such as 3G and 4G wireless broadband services and Wi-Fi networks, may compete with our video and high-speed Internet services, and our voice services are facing increased competition as customers replace
landline phones with mobile phones and Internet-based phone services such as Skype.

Video Services

We compete with a number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:



•DBS providers that transmit satellite signals containing video programming and other information to receiving dishes located on the customer’s premises



•phone companies that have built and continue to build fiber-based networks that provide cable services similar to ours, which now overlap a substantial
portion of our service areas



•other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable
operators



•satellite master antenna television (“SMATV”) systems that generally serve MDUs, office complexes and residential developments

We also may compete with digital distributors that offer online services and devices
that enable Internet video streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming.

Congress has enacted
legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory policies intended to provide a favorable operating environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to our cable services. The FCC adopted rules favoring new investment by certain
phone companies in networks capable of distributing video programming and rules allocating and auctioning spectrum for new wireless services that may compete with our video services. The FCC also has launched a rulemaking to classify certain online
video distributors as multichannel video distributors under the FCC’s rules and thereby provide them with certain regulatory benefits under the rules. See “Legislation and Regulation” below for additional information.

Direct Broadcast Satellite Providers

According to recent government and industry reports, conventional medium-power and high-power satellites provide video programming to 34 million subscribers in the United States. DBS providers with high-power
satellites typically offer video services substantially similar to our video services. Two companies, DIRECTV and DISH Network, provide video service to substantially all of these DBS subscribers. DBS providers also have marketing arrangements with
certain phone companies in which the DBS provider’s video services are sold together with the phone company’s high-speed Internet and phone services.

Phone Companies

Certain phone companies, in particular AT&T and Verizon,
have built and are continuing to build wireline fiber-based networks that provide video, high-speed Internet and voice services in substantial portions of our service areas. These and other phone companies with fiber-based networks or digital
subscriber line technology (“DSL”), such as CenturyLink, also may market video services provided by DBS providers in certain areas





13Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




where they provide only high-speed Internet and phone services. In May 2014, AT&T, our largest phone company competitor, announced its intention to acquire DirecTV, the nation’s largest
DBS provider. If completed, this transaction will create an even larger competitor for our cable services that will have the ability to expand its cable service offerings to include bundled wireless offerings.

Other Wireline Providers

Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises, and it permits franchising authorities
to operate cable systems. In addition to phone companies, various other companies, including those that traditionally have not provided video services and have significant financial resources, have obtained cable franchises and provide competing
cable services. These and other cable systems offer cable services in some areas where we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based competitors may emerge in other franchise areas that we serve.

Satellite Master Antenna Television Systems

Our video services also compete for customers with SMATV systems. SMATV system operators typically are not subject to regulation in the same manner as local, franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer
their subscribers both improved reception of local broadcast television stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems. In addition, some SMATV system operators offer packages of video, Internet and phone services to residential
and business subscribers.

Online Video Services

We may also compete with online services from digital distributors that offer Internet video streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming and in some cases charge a nominal or
no fee. A number of companies also have announced plans to launch online video services that will reportedly include both linear and on-demand programming and one traditional provider of cable services has begun to offer smaller packages of
programming networks directly to customers over the Internet at prices lower than our traditional video service package offerings. Some content providers also are beginning to offer programming directly to customers over the Internet for a nominal
fee. Additionally, we may compete with consumer electronic companies that sell Internet-connected TVs or gaming consoles that provide a user interface for searching television and other programming and offer links to various third-party apps. The
success of these newer services could negatively impact demand for our video services, including for our DVR, premium network and On Demand services.

Other

Our cable services also may compete for customers with other companies,
such as local broadcast television stations that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming, as well as video rental services and home entertainment and gaming products.

High-Speed Internet Services

We compete with a number of companies offering Internet
services, many of which have substantial resources, including:



•wireline phone companies



•Internet service providers



•wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service



•satellite broadband providers



•power companies



•municipal broadband networks





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K14




DSL technology allows Internet access to be provided to customers over phone lines at data
transmission speeds substantially greater than those of dial-up modems. Phone companies and certain other companies offer DSL service, and several of these companies have increased data transmission speeds, lowered prices or created bundled service
packages. In addition, some phone companies, such as AT&T, CenturyLink and Frontier, have built and are continuing to build out fiber deeper in their networks, which allows them to provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that can be
provided with traditional DSL technology and are now offering these higher-speed services in many of our service areas. Verizon, on the other hand, has built out and continues to build out a fiber-to-the-home network in many of our services areas,
while Google has launched a similar fiber-to-the-home network and is providing high-speed Internet services in a limited number of areas in which we operate and recently announced plans to expand in additional geographical areas. Certain
municipalities in our service areas are also building fiber-based networks.

Various wireless companies are offering Internet services
using a variety of network types, including 3G and 4G wireless high-speed Internet networks and Wi-Fi networks. Some of these services are similar to ours. These networks work with devices such as smartphones, laptops, tablets and mobile wireless
routers, as well as wireless data cards. In addition, a number of commercial venues, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi
and other Internet access networks. The availability of these wireless offerings could negatively impact the demand for our high-speed Internet services.

Voice Services

Our voice services compete with wireline phone companies, including
incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”), competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”), wireless phone service providers and other Internet-based and VoIP service providers. Certain phone companies, such as the ILECs AT&T
and Verizon, have substantial capital and other resources, longstanding customer relationships, and extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources. In
addition, we are increasingly competing with wireless phone service providers as customers replace landline phones with mobile phones and Internet-based phone services.

Business Services

Our business services primarily compete for business services
customers with a variety of phone companies, including ILECs and CLECs. These companies either operate their own network infrastructure or rely on reselling all or part of another carrier’s network. We also compete with satellite operators who
provide video offerings for businesses.

NBCUniversal Segments

Cable Networks and Broadcast Television

Our cable networks, broadcast television
networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for viewers’ attention and audience share with all forms of programming provided to viewers, including cable, broadcast and premium networks, local broadcast television stations,
home entertainment, pay-per-view and video on demand services, online activities, such as social networking and viewing user-generated content, video games, and other forms of entertainment, news and information. Our cable networks, broadcast
television networks and owned local broadcast television stations may compete for viewers’ attention with subscription video on demand services, some of which have their own high-quality original content.

Our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the acquisition of programming and for
on-air and creative talent with other cable and broadcast networks, local television stations and subscription video on demand services. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming, where the cost for such
programming is significant.





15Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Our cable networks compete with other cable networks and programming providers for carriage of their
programming by multichannel video providers and subscription video on demand services. Our broadcast television networks compete with the other broadcast networks in markets across the United States to secure affiliations with independently owned
television stations, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience.

In
addition, our cable networks and broadcast television production operations compete with other production companies and creators of content for the acquisition of story properties, creative, performing and technical personnel, and with distributors
for their content and for consumer interest in their content.

Filmed Entertainment

Our filmed entertainment business competes for audiences for its films and other entertainment content with other major studios and, to a lesser
extent, with independent film producers, as well as with alternative forms of entertainment. Our competitive position primarily depends on the number of films we produce, their distribution and marketing success and consumer response. Our filmed
entertainment business also competes to obtain creative, performing and technical talent, including writers, actors, directors and producers, as well as scripts for films. Our filmed entertainment business also competes with the other major studios
and other producers of entertainment content for sources of financing for the production of its films, for the exhibition of its films in theaters, for shelf space in retail stores for its DVDs and for digital distribution of its products.

Theme Parks

Our theme
parks business competes with other multi-park entertainment companies. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our theme parks, we have invested and
continue to invest in existing and new theme park attractions and infrastructure. The investment required to introduce new attractions in our theme parks can be significant.

Advertising

Our cable communications business, cable networks, broadcast television
networks, and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the sale of advertising time with other television networks and stations, as well as with all other advertising platforms, such as online, radio and print media. Additionally, the
willingness of advertisers to purchase advertising from us may be adversely affected by lower audience ratings at our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations. Declines in advertising revenue also
can be caused by increased competition for the leisure time of audiences and audience fragmentation and from the growing use of technologies such as DVRs and video on demand services, which give consumers greater flexibility to watch programming on
a time-delayed or on-demand basis or to fast-forward or skip advertisements within programming, and from subscription video on demand services.

Seasonality and Cyclicality



Each of our businesses is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. See Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations and refer to the “Seasonality and Cyclicality” discussion for additional information.

Legislation and
Regulation

The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), and FCC regulations and policies affect
significant aspects of our businesses, which are also subject to other regulation by federal, state, local and foreign authorities under applicable laws and regulations, as well as under agreements we enter into





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K16




with franchising authorities. In addition, our businesses are subject to compliance with the terms of the FCC Order approving the NBCUniversal transaction (the “NBCUniversal Order”) and
a consent decree entered into between us, the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and five states (the “NBCUniversal Consent Decree”), which contain conditions and commitments of varying duration, ranging from three to seven years
after September 2011.

The following paragraphs summarize material existing and
potential future legal and regulatory requirements affecting our businesses, although reference should be made to the Communications Act, FCC regulations, the NBCUniversal Order, the NBCUniversal Consent Decree, and other legislation and regulations
for further information.

Cable Communications Segment



Video Services

Program Carriage

The Communications
Act and FCC regulations prohibit cable operators and other multichannel video providers from requiring a financial interest in, or exclusive distribution rights for, any video programming network as a condition of carriage, or from unreasonably
restraining the ability of an unaffiliated programming network to compete fairly by discriminating against the network on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage. The FCC is considering proposals to
further expand program carriage regulations that may be disadvantageous to us. In addition, the NBCUniversal Order prohibits discriminating against a network on the basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or conditions for carriage, and
requires that, if we place news and/or business news channels in a channel lineup “neighborhood,” we must place all independent news and business news channels in that neighborhood. In early 2014, we settled a complaint filed by Bloomberg
Television at the FCC involving this condition. We have been involved in other program carriage disputes at the FCC and may continue to be subject to program carriage complaints in the future. Adverse decisions in disputes under the program carriage
regulations or NBCUniversal Order conditions could negatively affect our business.





17Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Cable operators are currently required to carry, without compensation, the programming transmitted by most local commercial and noncommercial
broadcast television stations. As an alternative to must carry, local broadcast television stations may choose to negotiate with a cable operator for retransmission consent, under which the station gives up its must-carry rights and instead seeks to
negotiate a carriage agreement with the cable operator. Such agreements frequently involve payments to the station. We currently pay certain local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of the
stations’ broadcast programming to our video services customers and expect to continue to be subject to demands for increased payment and other concessions from local broadcast television stations. Congress passed legislation in 2014, which,
among other things, directs the FCC to initiate a rulemaking to review aspects of its retransmission consent rules. We cannot predict the outcome of the rulemaking or how it might affect our future retransmission consent negotiations. For
information on must-carry and retransmission consent issues relating to our broadcast television business, see “NBCUniversal Segments—Broadcast Television” below and refer to the “Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent”
discussion within that section.

Pricing and Packaging

The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the prices that cable operators may charge for basic video service, equipment and installation. These rules do not apply to cable systems that the FCC determines are
subject to effective competition, or where franchising authorities have chosen not to regulate rates. Approximately 80% of our video services customers are not subject to rate regulation. From time to time, Congress and the FCC consider imposing new
pricing or packaging regulations.

Cable Equipment

The Communications Act includes provisions aimed at promoting the retail sale of set-top boxes and other equipment that can be used to receive digital video services, and the FCC has adopted regulations
implementing this policy. With the exception of certain one-way devices, like digital transport adapters, these regulations prohibit cable operators from deploying new set-top boxes that perform both channel navigation and security functions. As a
result, most set-top boxes that we purchase must rely on a separate security device known as a CableCARD. Congress passed legislation in 2014 that repeals this prohibition in December 2015. The legislation also directs the FCC to establish a working
group to report by September 2015 on software-based security aimed at promoting the retail availability of video devices. It is uncertain what, if any, steps the FCC will take in response to that report.

Pole Attachments

The
Communications Act permits the FCC to regulate the rates, terms and conditions that pole-owning utility companies (with the exception of municipal utilities and rural cooperatives) charge cable systems and telecommunications carriers for allowing
attachments to their poles. States are permitted to preempt FCC jurisdiction and regulate the rates, terms and conditions of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so. Most of these states have generally followed the
FCC’s pole attachment rate standards. Until recently, the pole attachment rates applicable to telecommunications services were significantly higher than the rates we have paid for cable and other services. In 2013, a federal court upheld
changes to the FCC’s pole rate formula that reduce the rates for telecommunications service pole attachments to levels that are at or near the rates for cable attachments. However, utility companies are able to rebut certain presumptions in the
new FCC formula so as to justify higher rates, and it is expected that most will attempt to do so.

Franchising

Cable operators generally operate their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or state franchising authorities. While the
terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction to juris-





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K18




diction, franchises typically last for a fixed term, obligate the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet service quality, customer service and other requirements, and are terminable if the
franchisee fails to comply with material provisions. The Communications Act permits franchising authorities to establish reasonable requirements for public, educational and governmental access (“PEG”) programming, and some of our
franchises require substantial channel capacity and financial support for this programming. The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the franchising process, including, among other things, renewal procedures designed to protect
incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal. We believe that our franchise renewal prospects are generally favorable, but cannot guarantee the future renewal of any individual franchise.

Approximately half of the states in which we operate have enacted legislation to provide statewide franchising or to simplify local franchising
requirements for new entrants. Some of these statutes also allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the new entrant provide service to all parts of the franchise area or
permitting the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve. Certain of these statutes allow incumbent cable operators to opt into the new state franchise immediately or later when a competing state franchise has been issued for
the incumbent cable operator’s franchise area. However, even in those states, the incumbent cable operators sometimes are required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than the new entrant’s state franchise.

High-Speed Internet Services

We
provide high-speed Internet services over our cable distribution system. Our high-speed Internet services are subject to a number of regulatory obligations, including compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act
(“CALEA”) requirement that high-speed Internet service providers (“ISPs”) implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting surveillance of persons suspected of criminal activity, and the FCC is
considering new requirements for ISPs.

Open Internet Regulations

Until the order is released, we are unable to determine
what specific requirements will apply to our business or how they will apply to our business, nor can we predict what the impact of such requirements would be on our business.





19Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




States also may attempt to use the FCC’s decision to classify ISPs as Title II
“telecommunications carriers” and the court’s decision to impose regulations on ISPs or otherwise affect the development of the broadband Internet marketplace in ways that could affect our business.

Separate and apart from the new rules, Comcast is currently bound by the FCC’s original “open Internet” regulations adopted in 2010
as a condition of the NBCUniversal Order and the NBCUniversal Consent Decree for the remainder of the term of those orders. These regulations require that we disclose information regarding network management, performance and commercial terms of the
service (the “transparency rule”); bar us from blocking access to lawful content, applications, services or non-harmful devices; and bar us from unreasonably discriminating in transmitting lawful network traffic. The no-blocking and
non-discrimination requirements allow for reasonable network management. The FCC did not prohibit use of speed tiers or usage-based pricing, but specifically noted that “paid prioritization” (i.e., charging content, application and service
providers for prioritizing their traffic over our last-mile facilities) or an ISP’s prioritizing of its own Internet content likely would violate these regulations. These requirements apply to any broadband Internet access service that we
provide to consumers, regardless of whether it is accessed through a set-top box, gaming console, computer or other device. The FCC’s original 2010 rules, except for the transparency rule, were vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit in January 2014.

Municipally Owned Broadband Networks

A number of states have enacted laws that restrict or prohibit local municipalities from operating municipally owned broadband networks. A municipal broadband provider in Tennessee and a municipality in North
Carolina filed petitions with the FCC requesting that the FCC preempt state laws that restricted their ability to provide broadband service. The FCC adopted an order in February 2015 that preempts the Tennessee and North Carolina laws in most
respects and expresses a willingness to entertain similar preemption requests. Until the order is released, we cannot predict what effects the order will have on our business.

Definition of Advanced Telecommunications Capability

In January 2015, the FCC
redefined what connection speeds and other service characteristics constitute “advanced telecommunications capability,” increasing the downstream speed from 4 Mbps to 25 Mbps. The definition of “advanced telecommunications
capability” has been used by the FCC in the past to determine whether broadband Internet services are being deployed to all Americans in a reasonable and timely way. Under the relevant statute, because the FCC has determined that “advanced
telecommunications capability” is not being deployed in a reasonable and timely manner, it has regulatory authority to adopt new regulations that might conceivably accelerate deployment of such services. The FCC reportedly is considering
relying in part on this authority to adopt new open Internet regulations. The FCC also could use this authority to adopt other measures affecting our broadband business.

NBCUniversal Order Conditions

The NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree
include various conditions and commitments requiring us to expand our broadband service areas, to continue to offer all of our high-speed Internet service speed tiers on a stand-alone basis at reasonable market-based prices, to maintain a high-speed
Internet service of at least 12 Mbps downstream across most of our footprint, and to not discriminate in how we treat “specialized services” (defined as services we provide over the same last-mile facilities as our high-speed Internet
service, but not including our high-speed Internet service, video services or voice services). We have taken a number of steps to comply with these conditions. In 2012, after an FCC inquiry into whether we failed to comply with the stand-alone
broadband condition, we entered into a consent decree with the FCC to extend our offering of the performance starter tier for one additional year until February 2015 and to reinforce the promotion of our stand-alone broadband offerings, including
training our sales representatives with respect to these offerings.





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K20




Other Regulatory Activities

Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer privacy, consumer protection, copyright protection, defamation liability, taxation,
obscenity and unsolicited commercial email. For example, in 1998, the Internet Tax Freedom Act was enacted in an effort to promote use of the Internet, and it has been extended several times, but is scheduled to expire in September 2015, unless it
is extended again. State and local governments also have adopted Internet-related regulations. Furthermore, Congress, the FCC, and certain state and local governments are considering proposals to impose customer service, quality of service, expanded
copyright protection requirements, taxation, child safety, privacy and standard pricing regulations on high-speed ISPs. It is uncertain whether any of these proposals will be adopted. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws to
the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our high-speed Internet business.

Voice Services

We provide voice services by using interconnected VoIP technology. The FCC has adopted a number of regulations for providers of nontraditional voice
services such as ours, including regulations relating to customer proprietary network information, local number portability duties and benefits, disability access, E911, law enforcement assistance (CALEA), outage reporting, rural call completion
reporting, Universal Service Fund contribution obligations, domestic discontinuance requirements and certain regulatory filing requirements. The FCC has not yet ruled on whether interconnected VoIP service should be classified as an
“information service” or a “telecommunications service” under the Communications Act. The classification determination is important because telecommunications services are still regulated more pervasively than information
services. The regulatory environment for our voice services therefore remains uncertain at both the federal and the state levels. Until the FCC definitively classifies interconnected VoIP service, state regulatory commissions and legislatures may
continue to investigate imposing regulatory requirements on our voice services. A number of states have enacted laws that preclude state public utility regulation of VoIP-based services notwithstanding how they are classified under federal law.

Interconnection





21Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Universal Service

A federal program known as the Universal Service program generally requires telecommunications service providers to pay a fee based on revenue from their services into a fund used to subsidize the provision of
telecommunications services in high-cost areas and to low-income consumers and the provision of Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers. Some states also have analogous programs that support
service in high-cost areas or to low-income consumers.

The FCC issued an order in 2011 that changed the way that a majority of
Universal Service funds are allocated and began implementing that order in 2012. By focusing on broadband and wireless deployment, and moving away from supporting traditional telephone service, the changes could assist some of our competitors in
more effectively competing with our service offerings, while others could receive less funding. The actual impact of the changes is not yet known. The FCC’s ruling has been upheld by a federal court, but that decision has now been appealed to
the Supreme Court of the United States.

In July 2014, the FCC released an order substantially revising the program to support services
to schools and libraries. Under the new rules, support will be shifted from voice services and other legacy services to broadband service and to the deployment of Wi-Fi networks. In December 2014, the FCC adopted an order increasing the budget for,
and making additional changes to, the schools and libraries program. We cannot predict how these changes will affect our businesses.

The FCC has a long-pending proceeding to reform the mechanism used to collect the fees used to fund federal universal service programs. Proposals
in that proceeding have included changing the basis on which the fee is calculated from revenue to a per-user fee or per-connection fee; adopting a fee based on bandwidth; or expanding the services subject to the fee to include broadband Internet
access. In August 2014, the FCC referred the question of how to reform universal service fees to the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service, which is expected to make a recommendation in April 2015. In announcing certain aspects of his
proposed open Internet order, the FCC Chairman stated that his proposed order would not impose universal service fees on broadband Internet access services. We are unable to predict the outcome of these proceedings and whether they will affect our
business.

Other Regulations

State and Local Taxes

Some states
and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on the cable services we offer, or imposing adverse methodologies by which taxes or fees are computed. These include combined reporting or other changes to
general business taxes, central assessments for property tax, and taxes and fees on video, high-speed Internet and voice services. Cable industry members are challenging certain of these taxes through administrative and court proceedings. In
addition, in some situations our DBS competitors and other competitors that deliver their services over a high-speed Internet connection do not face similar state tax and fee burdens. Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals
to bar states from imposing taxes on DBS providers that are equivalent to the taxes or fees that we pay. Congress may not extend the Internet Tax Freedom Act, which prohibits most states and localities from imposing taxes on Internet access charges.
Additionally, the FCC may impose Title II regulation on Internet access service, which may cause, directly or indirectly, some states and localities to impose additional taxes and fees on our high-speed Internet business.





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K22




NBCUniversal Segments



Cable Networks

Program Access

The Communications
Act and FCC regulations generally prevent cable networks affiliated with cable operators from favoring affiliated cable operators over competing multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”). In 2012, the FCC relaxed its
restriction on exclusive contracts between cable operators and cable-affiliated networks; such agreements can now be reviewed on a case-by-case basis in response to a complaint. The FCC is considering proposals that would make it easier for MVPDs to
succeed with complaints involving exclusive contracts, and making it easier for them to use buying groups to purchase programming. The FCC also recently initiated a rulemaking proceeding to determine whether certain online video distributors
(“OVDs”) should be classified as MVPDs and be given the ability to bring complaints under the program access rules. It is uncertain whether the FCC will act on these proposals and, if adopted, what impact these proposals would have on our
cable networks.

In recent years, both the FCC and Congress have considered proposals that would require companies that own multiple
cable networks to make each of their networks available to MVPDs on a stand-alone or “unbundled” basis when negotiating distribution agreements. Lawmakers also have proposed legislation that would provide certain program access rights and
protections to online video distributors. We currently offer our cable networks both on a bundled and, when requested, on a stand-alone basis. It is uncertain whether any of these proposals will ever be adopted and, if so, what impact they would
have on our cable networks.

Under the terms of the NBCUniversal Order, MVPDs can invoke commercial arbitration for program access in
certain circumstances against our cable networks and broadcast television networks, including our regional sports networks. In addition, under the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable
network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming available to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances. For further discussion of these conditions, see “Broadcast Television” below and refer to the
“Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” and “Internet Distribution” discussions within that section.

Children’s
Programming

The Children’s Television Act (“CTA”) and FCC regulations limit the amount and content of commercial matter
that may be shown on cable networks, broadcast networks and broadcast television stations during programming originally produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children under 13 years of age, and require that television stations’
programming serve the educational and informational needs of children under 17 years of age. In addition, the NBCUniversal Order includes certain commitments and conditions related to children’s television and advertising directed at children.

Broadcast Television

Licensing

The Communications Act permits the operation of local broadcast television stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC
upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants broadcast television station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional
terms.

Renewal applications are pending for a number of our broadcast television station licenses. The FCC may grant any license
renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum eight years otherwise permitted. A station’s authority to operate is automatically extended while a renewal application is on file and under
review. Six pending applications have been opposed by third parties





23Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




and other applications are pending due to unresolved complaints of alleged indecency in the stations’ programming. Although we have received such renewals in the past, there can be no
assurance that we will always obtain them.

Ownership Limits

FCC regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have “attributable interests” above specific levels in local television stations, as well as other specified mass media entities, such as
limits on the cross-ownership of broadcast stations and newspapers in the same market. The FCC, by law, must review the ownership regulations detailed below once every four years. The review initiated in 2010 was not completed. Instead, it has been
incorporated into the quadrennial review initiated in 2014. The FCC expects to complete the review in 2016. There are also several pending court challenges to the ownership regulations. We cannot predict when the FCC’s current review will be
completed or whether or how any of these regulations will change.

Local Television Ownership

Under the FCC’s local television ownership rule, a licensee may own up to two broadcast television stations in the same DMA, as long as at
least one of the two stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market based on audience share as of the date an application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the FCC and at least eight independently owned and operating
full-power broadcast television stations remain in the market following the acquisition. Further, without regard to the number of remaining independently owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of more than one television station
within the same DMA so long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap.

National Television Ownership

The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the number of broadcast television stations one entity may own or control
nationally. Under the rule, no entity may have an attributable interest in broadcast television stations that reach, in the aggregate, more than 39% of all U.S. television households. Our owned television station reach does not exceed this limit. In
2013, the FCC launched a rulemaking that considers eliminating a rule that currently affords UHF stations (channels 14 and above) a 50% discount in calculating the extent of an individual station owner’s holdings under the national cap.
Adoption of this proposed change would place us closer to the national cap and limit our flexibility to acquire stations in the future.

Foreign Ownership

The
Communications Act generally limits foreign ownership in a broadcast station to 20% direct ownership and 25% indirect ownership (i.e., through one or more subsidiaries), although the limit on indirect ownership can be waived if the FCC finds it to
be in the public interest. For many decades the FCC has declined to waive the 25% indirect limit in broadcast transactions, but in a 2013 declaratory ruling, the FCC stated that it is now willing to consider such waiver requests.

Dual Network Rule

The dual
network rule prohibits any of the four major broadcast television networks, ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC, from being under common ownership or control with another of the four.

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Every three years, each commercial television
station must elect for each cable system in its DMA either must-carry or retransmission consent. A similar regulatory scheme applies to satellite providers. For the current period, which ends on December 31, 2017, all of our owned NBC broadcast
television stations and our owned Telemundo broadcast television stations elected retransmission consent.





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K24




In enacting the STELA Reauthorization Act of 2014 (“STELAR”), Congress modified certain
aspects of the compulsory copyright licenses under which satellite providers and cable operators retransmit broadcast stations. STELAR also directs the FCC to conduct a rulemaking in 2015 to review aspects of the requirement that commercial
television stations and MVPDs negotiate retransmission consent agreements in good faith. The FCC also has pending a rulemaking to consider, among other issues, modifications to the good-faith negotiating standards and possible elimination of rules
protecting local television stations’ exclusive rights to transmit network and syndicated programming in their local markets. Congress also is considering legislation that would eliminate or modify the must-carry and retransmission consent
regime. We cannot predict what new laws or regulations, if any, may be adopted or how any such laws or regulations would affect our businesses. Under conditions imposed in the NBCUniversal Order, MVPDs may invoke commercial arbitration to resolve
disputes regarding carriage of our owned local broadcast television stations.

Internet Distribution

The NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree establish certain obligations and restraints concerning distribution of our content online.
We must make available certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances, and they may invoke commercial arbitration to resolve disputes over
access to such programming. We also must distribute programming via nbc.com that is generally equivalent to the programming that we distributed via nbc.com as of January 1, 2011, on generally equivalent price, terms and conditions, so long as
at least one of the other major broadcast networks continues to distribute its programming in a similar fashion. We are one of three broadcast network owners of Hulu, but we have no voting rights or board representation. We have entered into renewal
license agreements with Hulu on substantially the same terms as its other broadcast network owners.

Broadcast Spectrum

In 2012, Congress authorized the FCC to conduct an incentive auction to reassign a portion of the broadcast spectrum for mobile broadband use. Under
the statute, broadcasters may voluntarily relinquish some or all of their spectrum rights in exchange for a share of the proceeds of the FCC’s auction of the spectrum. Broadcasters that do not voluntarily relinquish their spectrum rights may
still be affected as part of the process of clearing and repacking the spectrum, but Congress required the FCC to make “all reasonable efforts” to preserve broadcasters’ over-the-air coverage areas and populations served, and to
reimburse those broadcasters’ reasonable relocation costs. The FCC currently is conducting a proceeding to implement this statute, addressing matters such as incentive auction procedures, pricing methodologies, spectrum repacking and
broadcaster relocation cost reimbursement. Current FCC plans are to conduct the incentive auction in 2016. We cannot predict whether or how the incentive auction might affect our businesses.

Indecency

A federal statute and FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene
material on television stations at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m.

Indecency
regulation has been the subject of recent court review, regarding both the FCC’s “fleeting expletives” policy and the FCC’s definition of what constitutes indecent material. A U.S. Supreme Court decision in 2012 may result in the
FCC’s clarification of its policy and changes to how it approaches future indecency-related enforcement actions. In this regard, in 2013, the FCC sought public comment regarding its indecency enforcement policies, but it has taken no further
action. From time to time, we have received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on our owned local television stations included indecent or profane material.





25Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




International Regulation

International regulation of television broadcasting varies widely according to jurisdiction and includes the regulation of programming and advertising. For example, the European Union (“E.U.”) establishes
minimum levels of regulation across all E.U. member states focused on content and advertising, which also extends to nonlinear television services, although E.U. countries are free to impose stricter regulation in certain areas.

Online Video Distributors

The FCC
has initiated a rulemaking to consider classifying certain OVDs that offer multiple linear programming networks to customers with a broadband Internet connection as MVPDs under FCC rules. The FCC’s proposal is designed to ensure that these OVDs
have program access rights to programming from vertically integrated cable programmers and the right to force broadcast stations to negotiate to license their content. The FCC also has proposed potentially excusing these entities from all or
some of the regulatory obligations applicable to current MVPDs. If adopted, these proposals would increase our program access obligations and raise complicated issues regarding the licensing of our broadcast programming. The outcome of
this proceeding cannot be determined at this time.

Filmed Entertainment

Our filmed entertainment business is subject to the provisions of “trade practice laws” in effect in 25 states and Puerto Rico relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. Under various consent
judgments, federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair competition laws, motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on trade practices in the United States. In countries outside the United States, there are a variety of
existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect our ability to distribute and license motion picture and television products, as well as consumer merchandise products. The ability of countries to deny market access or
refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements.

Theme Parks

Our theme parks are subject to various regulations, including laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, privacy and
data protection, consumer product safety and theme park operations, such as health, sanitation, safety and fire standards, and liquor licenses.

Other Areas of Regulation



Intellectual Property

Copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and
Internet/domain laws of the United States and other countries help protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution of counterfeit DVDs, peer-to-peer file sharing and other
platforms presents challenges for our cable networks, broadcast television and filmed entertainment businesses. The unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of copyrighted material over the Internet or through other methods of
distribution, such as through devices, software or websites that allow the reproduction, viewing, sharing and/or downloading of content by either ignoring or interfering with the content’s security features and copyrighted status, interferes
with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to exploit our content. The extent of copyright protection and the use of technological protections, such as encryption, are controversial. Modifications to existing laws that weaken
these protections could have an adverse effect on our ability to license and sell our programming.

While many legal protections exist
to combat piracy, laws in the United States and internationally continue to evolve, as do technologies used to evade these laws. We have actively engaged in the enforcement of our intellectual property rights and likely will continue to expend
substantial resources to protect our content. The repeal of laws intended to combat piracy and protect intellectual property or weakening of such laws or





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K26




enforcement in the United States or internationally, or a failure of existing laws to adapt to new technologies, could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual
property rights, which could negatively impact their value and further increase the costs of enforcing our rights.

Copyright laws also
require that we pay standard industry licensing fees for the public performance of music in the programs we distribute, such as local advertising and local origination programming on our cable systems, as well as in the content we create. The fees
we pay to music performance rights organizations are typically renegotiated when we renew licenses with those organizations, and we cannot predict what those fees will be in the future or if disputes will arise over them.

There has been litigation related to a number of online entities that stream our broadcast television content online without the consent of, or
compensation to, NBC or its affiliates. In 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that one such entity, Aereo, violated the broadcasters’ exclusive right to perform their copyrighted works publicly. Subsequently, Aereo sought to operate as a cable
system under the Copyright Act, although the U.S. Copyright Office rejected its application for a compulsory copyright license. We also have brought a suit against a multichannel video provider to challenge the commercial-skipping functionality in
its DVR. Additionally, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. Congress that seems intended to legitimize the unauthorized online streaming of local broadcast content. We cannot predict whether such legislation will be enacted or how any such
legislation would ultimately affect our businesses. In addition, the FCC recently sought comment on whether classifying certain OVDs as MVPDs would give such OVDs the right to negotiate for retransmission consent with local broadcast stations and
subject such negotiations to the good-faith requirements under the FCC’s rules. We cannot predict the outcome of the rulemaking, or how it would affect our businesses.

Privacy and Security Regulation

The Communications Act generally restricts the nonconsensual
collection and disclosure to third parties of cable customers’ personally identifiable information by cable operators. There are exceptions that permit such collection and disclosure for rendering service, conducting legitimate business
activities related to the service, and responding to legal requests. The Communications Act and FCC regulations also provide privacy protections for customer proprietary network information related to our voice services. Several states and numerous
local jurisdictions have enacted privacy laws or franchise privacy provisions that apply to cable services.

The FTC has continued to
exercise authority over privacy protections generally, using its existing authority over unfair and deceptive practices and other public proceedings to apply greater restrictions on the collection and use of personally identifiable and other
information relating to consumers. It also has undertaken numerous enforcement actions against parties that do not provide sufficient security protections against the loss or unauthorized disclosure of this type of information. In 2013, FTC
regulations implementing the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (“COPPA”) went into effect. COPPA imposes requirements on website operators and online services that are directed to children under 13 years of age, or that
knowingly collect or post personal information from children under 13 years of age. The FTC rules impose some significant new obligations on operators of websites and online services, including expanded categories of personal information and new
data security and data retention requirements, and also expand the scope of COPPA to reach third-party service providers that knowingly collect personal information through a website or service focused towards children.

We are also subject to state and federal “do not call” laws regarding telemarketing and state and federal laws regarding unsolicited
commercial emails, as well as FCC regulations relating to automated telemarketing calls, texts or SMS messages. The FTC and state attorneys general also have initiated efforts to increase and enforce transparency requirements about the collection
and use of consumer information, even in an





27Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




aggregated, non-customer-identifiable form. These requirements may require ongoing review of new and rapidly evolving technologies and methods for delivering content and advertising to ensure
that appropriate notice is given to consumers and consent is obtained where required.

We are also subject to state and federal
regulations and laws regarding information security. Most of these regulations and laws apply to consumer information that could be used to commit identity theft. Substantially all of the U.S. states and the District of Columbia have enacted
security breach notification laws. These laws generally require that a business give notice to consumers and government agencies when certain information has been disclosed because of a security breach. The FCC has adopted security breach rules for
voice services. In October 2014, the FCC proposed to impose fines totaling $10 million on two companies for failing to protect customer data from unauthorized access by and disclosure to third parties. Several states have also enacted general
information security requirements to safeguard consumer information, including the proper disposal of consumer information. In addition, we maintain an identity theft program that incorporates the guidance provided under the FTC’s “red
flag rules,” which are designed to detect the warning signs of identity theft.

In 2013, the President directed the National
Institute of Standards and Technology (“NIST”), in cooperation with other federal agencies and owners and operators of U.S. critical infrastructure, including us, to develop a voluntary framework that provides a prioritized, flexible,
repeatable, performance-based and cost-effective approach to cyber risk, which was released in February 2014. It is a compendium of existing cross-sector cyber-defense processes, practices and protocols that can help companies identify, assess and
manage their cyber risks and vulnerabilities. Additionally, there are pending legislative proposals that could impose new requirements on owners and operators of critical infrastructure, including us. Several government agencies have encouraged
compliance with the NIST cybersecurity framework. The FCC is considering expansion of its cybersecurity guidelines or the adoption of cybersecurity requirements. We cannot predict what proposals may ultimately be adopted or how such requirements, if
any, would affect our businesses.

Additional and more restrictive requirements may be imposed if and to the extent that state or local
authorities establish their own privacy or security standards or if Congress enacts new privacy or security legislation.

Advertising Restrictions

Legislation has been introduced and reports from various government agencies have been issued from time to time urging that
restrictions be placed on advertisements for particular products or services, including prescription drugs and the marketing of food or violent entertainment to children, and on the tax deductibility of advertising expenses. We are unable to predict
whether such reports would result in legislative proposals, whether legislative proposals may be adopted, or, if adopted, what impact they would have on our businesses.

Environmental Matters

Certain of our business operations are subject to environmental laws and
regulations and involve air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, disposal and cleanup of toxic and hazardous substances. Any failure to comply with environmental requirements could result in monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions,
third-party claims, or other costs or liabilities. We have been responsible for the cleanup of environmental contamination at some of NBCUniversal’s current and former facilities and at off-site waste disposal locations, although our share of
the cost of such cleanups to date has not been material. In addition, the California Attorney General and the Alameda County, California District Attorney are investigating whether certain of our waste disposal policies, procedures and practices are
in violation of the California Business and Professions Code and the California Health and Safety Code. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” for additional information.





Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K28




Environmental requirements have become more stringent over time, and pending or proposed new
regulations could impact our operations or costs. For example, climate change regulation, such as proposed greenhouse gas emissions limits or cap and trade programs, could result in an increase in the cost of electricity, which is a significant
component of our operational costs at some locations. We are unable to accurately predict how these requirements might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our businesses.

Disabilities Access

Our businesses
are subject to a number of statutory and regulatory requirements related to ensuring that our services are accessible to individuals with disabilities. Among other things, our voice services and email services must be accessible to and usable by
persons with disabilities; we must provide additional narrations of key visual elements on certain of our video services and programming; and we must include closed captioning on certain video programming delivered to our customers. The FCC has
adopted quality standards for closed captioning, as well as rules that will require that on-screen menus and program guides used on set-top boxes and other navigation devices to access multichannel video programming be audibly accessible to blind
and low-vision customers. The FCC is considering further accessibility requirements for MVPDs, and we cannot predict what impact those further requirements would have on our businesses.

Other FCC Regulations

The FCC actively regulates other aspects of our businesses,
including the mandatory blackout of syndicated and network programming, customer service standards, inside wiring, leased access, loudness of commercial advertisements, political advertising, Emergency Alert System requirements, equal employment
opportunity, lottery programming, recordkeeping and public file access requirements, telemarketing, technical standards relating to operation of cable systems and television stations, and regulatory fees. The FCC is considering possible changes to
regulations in several other areas. We are unable to predict how these regulations might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our businesses. In addition, while we believe that we are in substantial compliance with FCC
regulations, we are occasionally subject to enforcement actions at the FCC, which can result in our having to pay fines to the agency or being subject to other sanctions.

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 139,000 full-time and part-time
employees. Of these employees, approximately 84,000 and 43,000 were associated with our Cable Communications business and our NBCUniversal businesses, respectively. We also use freelance and temporary employees in the normal course of our business.

Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. In this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify these so-called “forward-looking statements” by words such as “may,” “will,”
“should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words, and other comparable words. You should be aware that these statements are only our
predictions. In evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties listed in “Risk Factors” and in other reports we file with the SEC.





29Comcast 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Additionally, we operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment.
This environment is affected by government regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and services; technological developments; and, particularly in view of new technologies, the
ability to develop and protect intellectual property rights. Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements as a result of any of such factors, which could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations or
financial condition. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

