Item 1: Business

We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. Comcast was incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in 2001, and through its predecessors, has
developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963. In 2011, we closed the NBCUniversal transaction in which we acquired control of the businesses of NBCUniversal, and in 2013, we acquired GE’s remaining 49% common equity interest in
NBCUniversal. We present our operations for Comcast Cable in one reportable business segment, referred to as Cable Communications, and our operations for NBCUniversal in four reportable business segments.



•Cable Communications:Consists of the operations of Comcast Cable, which is the nation’s largest provider of video, high-speed Internet and voice
services (“cable services”) to residential customers under the XFINITY brand, and we also provide similar services to businesses and sell advertising.



•Cable Networks:Consists primarily of our national cable networks, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, and our
cable television production operations.



•Broadcast Television:Consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our 10 NBC and 17 Telemundo owned local broadcast television
stations, and our broadcast television production operations.



•Filmed Entertainment:Consists primarily of the studio operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed
entertainment worldwide.



•Theme Parks:Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood.

The Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks
segments comprise the NBCUniversal businesses and are collectively referred to as the “NBCUniversal segments.”

In 2013, our
Cable Communications segment generated 65% of our consolidated revenue and 80% of our operating income before depreciation and amortization.

Our other business interests primarily include Comcast-Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia and operates arena management-related businesses.

For financial and other information about our reportable business segments, refer to Note 19 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements
and Note 18 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information and Websites

Comcast’s phone number is (215) 286-1700, and its principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia,
PA 19103-2838. NBCUniversal’s phone number is (212) 664-4444, and its principal executive offices are located at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, NY 10112-0015. The public may read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Comcast and NBCUniversal’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the





1Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at
www.sec.gov and on Comcast’s website at www.comcastcorporation.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information posted on our websites is not incorporated into our SEC filings.

General Developments of Our Businesses

The following are the more significant developments in our businesses during 2013:



•an increase in consolidated revenue of 3.3% to $64.7 billion and an increase in consolidated operating income of 11.4% to $13.6 billion



•the acquisition in March 2013 by Comcast of GE’s remaining 49% common equity interest in NBCUniversal Holdings and NBCUniversal’s purchase from GE
of certain properties NBCUniversal occupies; see “Redemption Transaction” below for additional information

Cable Communications Segment



•an increase in Cable Communications segment revenue of 5.6% to $41.8 billion and an increase in Cable Communications segment operating income before
depreciation and amortization of 5.8% to $17.2 billion



•an increase in Cable Communications segment capital expenditures of 9.8% to $5.4 billion primarily due to the investment in our IP and cloud-enabled video
platform, referred to as our X1 platform, the deployment of our wireless gateways in customers’ homes, and our continued investment in network infrastructure, as well as the expansion of business services and our home security and automation
services



•our X1 platform is now available in all of the markets in which we operate, and we have purchased and deployed over 7 million wireless gateways



•the continued expansion of video offerings for our customers via On Demand and online, including the launch of a mobile app that enables live-streaming of
certain programming content

NBCUniversal Segments



•an increase in total NBCUniversal revenue of 5.7% to $23.7 billion when excluding the impact from our broadcasts of the Super Bowl and London Olympics in
2012, and a decrease of 0.7% when including $1.4 billion of revenue in the prior year related to these events



•an increase in total NBCUniversal operating income before depreciation and amortization of 15.2% to $4.7 billion



•the continued investment in original programming and sports programming rights at both our cable networks and broadcast networks and the continued investment
in new attractions at our Universal theme parks, including theTransformersandDespicable Meattractions and the expansion of theHarry Potterattraction





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K2




Redemption Transaction

On March 19, 2013, Comcast acquired GE’s 49% remaining common equity interest in NBCUniversal Holdings for approximately $16.7 billion (the “Redemption Transaction”). In addition to this
transaction, NBCUniversal purchased from GE certain properties NBCUniversal occupies at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City and CNBC’s headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey for approximately $1.4 billion. See Note 4 to Comcast’s
consolidated financial statements for additional information on these transactions.

Description of Our Businesses

Cable Communications Segment



The table below summarizes certain customer
and penetration data for our cable system operations.



December 31 (in millions)20132012201120102009Homes and businesses passed(a)53.853.252.551.951.2VideoVideo
customers(b)21.722.022.322.823.6Video
penetration(c)40.3%41.4%42.5%43.9%46.0%Digital video
customers(d)21.321.220.619.718.4Digital video
penetration(d)98.2%96.6%92.0%86.6%78.2%High-speed InternetHigh-speed Internet customers20.719.418.117.015.9High-speed Internet penetration(c)38.4%36.4%34.6%32.7%31.1%VoiceVoice customers10.710.09.38.67.6Voice penetration(c)19.9%18.7%17.8%16.6%14.9%

Basis of Presentation: Customer metrics include our residential and business customers. Information related to cable
system acquisitions is included from the date acquired. Information related to cable systems sold or exchanged is excluded for all periods presented. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to
rounding.



(a)Homes and businesses are considered passed if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the transmission lines. Homes and
businesses passed is an estimate based on the best available information.



(b)Generally, a home or business receiving video programming from our distribution system counts as one video customer. In the case of some multiple dwelling
units (“MDUs”), we count video customers on an FCC equivalent basis by dividing total monthly revenue received from a contract with an MDU by the standard monthly residential rate where the MDU is located.



(c)Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes and businesses passed.



(d)Digital video customers include customers receiving digital signals through any means, including CableCARDs and digital transport adapters. Digital video
penetration is calculated by dividing the number of digital video customers by total video customers.

Cable Services

We offer a variety of cable services over our cable distribution system to residential and business customers. Subscription rates
and related charges vary according to the services and features customers receive and the type of equipment they use, and customers are typically billed in advance on a monthly basis. Residential customers may generally discontinue service at any
time, while business customers may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of their contracts, which typically have 2 to 5 year terms.





3Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




The Areas We Serve

The map below highlights the markets in which we offer cable services and that have 125,000 or more video customers. The locations that are bolded represent the markets we operate in that are also included in the
top 25 U.S. TV markets as of December 31, 2013.





Video Services

We offer a broad variety of video services under the XFINITY brand, with access to hundreds of channels depending on the level of service. Our levels of service typically range from a limited basic service with
access to between 20 and 40 channels of video programming to a full digital service with access to over 300 channels. Our video services generally include programming provided by national broadcast networks, local broadcast stations, and
national and regional cable networks, as well as governmental and public access programming. Our digital video services generally include access to our On Demand service and an interactive, on-screen program guide. We also offer packages that
include extensive amounts of foreign-language programming, and we offer other specialty tiers of programming with sports, family and international themes. We tailor our video services offerings that serve a particular geographic area according to
applicable local and federal regulatory requirements, programming preferences, and demographics.

Our video customers may also subscribe
to premium network programming. Premium networks include cable networks such as HBO, Showtime, Starz and Cinemax that generally offer, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and taped sporting events and concerts, and
other features.

Our On Demand service provides our digital video customers with almost 50,000 programming choices, including 15,000 in
high definition in select markets. A substantial portion of our On Demand content is available to our digital video customers at no additional charge. Digital video customers that subscribe to a premium network have access to the premium
network’s On Demand content without additional fees. Our On Demand service also allows our video customers to view, in most cases for a specified fee, individual new release movies and special-event programs, such as sporting events and
concerts. We plan to continue increasing the number of On Demand choices available, including HD programming. In 2013, we began to offer our customers the option to purchase select movies and television shows electronically.





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K4




Our HD video service provides customers that have an HD set-top box with high-resolution picture
quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format. Our HD service includes a broad selection of HD programming choices, including major broadcast networks, leading national cable networks, premium networks and regional sports networks. We
also offer select programming in 3-D format, on both linear channels and through On Demand, to our HD customers who have 3-D capable TV sets. Our DVR service allows digital video customers to select, record and store programs on their set-top box
and play them at whatever time is convenient. Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind “live” television.

We have invested in our IP and cloud-enabled video platform, referred to as our X1 platform, which is now available in all of the markets in which
we operate. The X1 platform provides integrated search functionality, personalized recommendations and apps accessible through televisions. Our video customers also have the ability to view certain live programming and our On Demand content, browse
program listings, schedule and manage DVR recordings, and view additional movies and other content online.

Video customers may also
subscribe to our Streampix service, which, depending on the customer’s level of service, may include a monthly fee. Streampix provides customers with access to certain programming via On Demand, online and through our mobile apps for
smartphones and tablets.

High-Speed Internet Services

We offer a variety of high-speed Internet services with downstream speeds of up to 105 Mbps, and we also have introduced downstream speeds of up to 505 Mbps in limited markets. These services also include our
Internet portal, XFINITY.comcast.net, which provides access to email, an address book, online storage and online security features. Our customers also have the ability to access these services, including the ability to manage their email accounts
and security features, using our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets.

Voice Services

We offer voice service plans using an interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) technology that provide either usage-based or
unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling and include options for international calling plans, voicemail, voicemail transcriptions, text messaging, caller ID and call waiting. For customers with our high-speed Internet services, our voice
services also include the ability to access and manage voicemail, text messaging and other account features through XFINITY.comcast.net or by using our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets.

Business Services

We offer our
cable services to small (up to 20 employees) and medium-sized (up to 500 employees) businesses (“business services”). In addition to the features provided to our residential cable services customers, our services for business customers
include a website hosting service, an interactive tool that allows customers to share, coordinate and store documents online, hosted voice services using cloud network servers, a business directory listing, and the added capacity for multiple phone
lines.

We also offer advanced voice services and Ethernet network services to our medium-sized business customers that connect multiple
locations, as well as cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators to help them manage network bandwidth.

Advertising

As part of our distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on cable networks that
we sell to local, regional and national advertisers under the Spotlight brand. In most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a
portion of the advertising time allocated to us. We also represent the advertising sales of other multichannel video providers in some markets. In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising online and on our On Demand service.





5Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Other Revenue Sources

We receive revenue related to cable franchise and other regulatory fees. We also receive revenue related to our digital media center, commissions from electronic retailing networks, and fees from other newer
services, such as our home security and automation services. Our cable franchise and regulatory fees represent the fees required to be paid to federal, state and local authorities that we pass through to our customers. Under the terms of our
franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay to the cable franchising authority an amount based on our gross video revenue. Our home security and automation offerings provide home monitoring services to our customers, as well as the
ability to manage other functions within the home, such as lighting and climate control, through XFINITY.comcast.net or our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets.

Technology

Our cable distribution system uses a hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network
that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements. This network provides the two-way transmissions that are essential to providing interactive video services, such as On Demand, and high-speed
Internet and voice services. We are also leveraging our network to develop and deliver innovative services to our customers efficiently and in an accelerated fashion.

We continue to focus on technology initiatives, such as:



•developing and launching next-generation media and content delivery platforms, such as our X1 platform, that use IP technology and our own cloud network
servers to deliver video and advanced search capabilities and allow access to certain third-party apps via the Internet, such as Pandora and Facebook



•enabling a variety of consumer electronic devices, including computers, tablets, smartphones and Internet-connected televisions, to view and control certain
live programming and other content we provide to our video customers



•expanding the use of our network to launch new services, including providing services to medium-sized businesses and offering home security and automation
services



•developing and launching wireless options such as Wi-Fi to extend our services outside the home to provide mobility through the use of apps for smartphones
and tablets



•developing and deploying wireless gateways in the home that enable our residential high-speed Internet customers to receive higher Internet speeds and to
improve the use of multiple Internet-enabled devices at the same time, and to allow for more activity on these devices



•deploying multiple tools to recapture bandwidth and optimize our network, including using advanced video encoding and digital compression technologies and
DOCSIS innovations, including DOCSIS 3.0 and 3.1



•developing and deploying technology and software that allow us to better identify and resolve problems with our cable services and provide for better
integration of our software with third-party software



•developing and deploying technology and software that allow customers to subscribe to cable services via the Internet, perform self-diagnostics and resolve
problems with our cable services





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K6




Sources of Supply

To offer our video services, we license a substantial portion of our programming from cable and broadcast networks, as well as from local broadcast television stations. We attempt to secure long-term programming
distribution agreements with our content providers. We also license individual programs or packages of programs from programming suppliers for our On Demand and streaming services. We seek to include in our distribution agreements the rights to
offer such programming to our subscribers through multiple delivery platforms that may be used in a variety of locations, such as through On Demand, XFINITY TV online, and through our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets.

Our video programming expenses are affected by the programming license fees charged by cable networks, fees we pay for retransmission of the
signals from local broadcast television stations, the number of video customers we serve and the amount of content we provide. We anticipate that our programming expenses will continue to increase as we provide additional content to our customers,
including in HD; as we deliver this content through an increasing number of platforms, including On Demand, online and through our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets; and as the fees we pay increase. We believe that adding more content and
delivering it on various platforms will help us attract and retain video customers.

We purchase from a limited number of suppliers a
significant number of set-top boxes, network equipment and services that we use in providing our cable services.

For our high-speed
Internet services, we license software products (such as email and security software) and content (such as news feeds) for our portal, XFINITY.comcast.net, from a variety of suppliers under contracts in which we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis,
on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share basis in the case of content licenses.

For our voice services, we license software products (such as voicemail and text messaging) from a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts. The fees we pay are generally based on the consumption of the
related services.

We use two primary vendors to provide customer billing for our cable services.

Customer and Technical Services

Our
customer service call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability, telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to our cable distribution system.

Sales and Marketing

We offer
our services directly to residential and business customers through our customer service call centers, customer service centers, door-to-door selling, direct mail advertising, television advertising, Internet advertising, local media advertising,
telemarketing and retail outlets. We market our cable services both individually and as bundled services.

NBCUniversal Segments



In 2011, we closed the
NBCUniversal and Universal Orlando transactions in which we acquired control of the businesses of NBCUniversal and Universal Orlando. In 2013, we acquired GE’s 49% remaining common equity interest in NBCUniversal. For additional information on
these transactions, refer to Note 4 to Comcast’s consolidated financial statements and Note 3 to NBCUniversal’s consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





7Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Cable Networks

Our Cable Networks segment consists of a diversified portfolio of national cable networks that provide a variety of entertainment, news and information, and sports content, our regional sports and news networks,
various international channels, and our cable television production operations. We also own various digital media properties, which primarily consist of brand-aligned websites.

The table below presents a summary of our national cable networks.



Cable NetworkApproximate U.S.Subscribers
atDecember 31, 2013(in
millions)(a)Description of ProgrammingUSA Network98General entertainmentSyfy97Imagination-based entertainmentE!96Entertainment and pop cultureMSNBC96News and informationCNBC95Business and financial newsBravo94Entertainment, culture and artsGolf Channel81Golf competition and golf entertainmentOxygen78Women’s interestsNBC Sports Network77SportsEsquire Network71Men’s lifestyle and entertainmentSprout57Children’s entertainmentChiller41Horror and suspenseCNBC World36Global financial newsG431Gamer lifestyleCloo29Crime, mystery and suspenseUniversal HD29General entertainment HD programming



(a)Subscriber data is based on The Nielsen Company’s January 2014 report, which is derived from information available during the period December 22,
2013 through December 28, 2013, except for Universal HD, which is derived from information provided by multichannel video providers.

The regional sports and news networks in our Cable Networks segment serve more than 35 million subscribers across the United States, including key markets such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, Boston,
Chicago, Philadelphia, Portland, Sacramento and San Francisco.

We market and distribute our cable network programming in the United
States and internationally to multichannel video providers, as well as to digital distributors such as Netflix, Amazon, Hulu and Apple. These distributors may exhibit our content on television, including video on demand and pay-per-view, online and
through mobile apps for smartphones and tablets.

Our cable networks produce their own programs or acquire programming rights from third
parties. Our cable television production operations identify, develop and produce original content for cable television and other distribution platforms both for our cable networks and for those of third parties. We license this content to cable
networks, broadcast networks and digital distributors.

Our Cable Networks segment generates revenue primarily from the distribution of
our cable network programming and from the sale of advertising. Distribution revenue is generated from distribution agreements with multichannel video providers. Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising time on our cable
networks and related digital media properties. We also generate content licensing and other revenue primarily from the licensing of our owned programming on various distribution platforms in the United States and internationally.





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K8




Broadcast Television

Our Broadcast Television segment operates the NBC and Telemundo broadcast television networks, which together serve audiences and advertisers in all 50 states. Our Broadcast Television segment also includes our
owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast television stations and our broadcast television production operations. We also own various digital media properties, which primarily consist of brand-aligned websites.

Our Broadcast Television segment generates revenue primarily from the sale of advertising, from content licensing and from fees received under
retransmission consent agreements. Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising time on our broadcast networks, owned local television stations and related digital media properties. Content licensing revenue is generated from the
licensing of our owned programming in the United States and internationally, including to cable and broadcast networks and to digital distributors. Our owned local television stations receive fees from multichannel video providers in exchange for
retransmission consent that allows carriage of the stations’ signals. We also receive a portion of the retransmission fees received by our NBC affiliated broadcast television stations. We expect these fees to continue to increase in the future
as we, as well as our NBC affiliated broadcast television stations, renegotiate distribution agreements with multichannel video providers. We also generate revenue from the sale of our owned programming on standard-definition DVDs and Blu ray discs
(together, “DVDs”) and through other online digital distributors such as iTunes.

NBC Network

The NBC network distributes more than 5,000 hours of entertainment, news and sports programming annually, and its programs reach viewers in
virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States, including our 10 NBC owned local television stations. The NBC network develops a broad range of entertainment, news and sports content and
also airs a variety of special-events programming. The NBC network’s television library consists of rights of varying nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including current and classic titles, unscripted
programming, sports, news, long-form and short-form programming, and locally produced programming from around the world. In addition, the NBC network operates various websites that extend its brands and content online.

The NBC network produces its own programs or acquires the rights to programming from third parties. NBCUniversal has various contractual
commitments for the licensing of rights to multiyear programming, primarily sports programming. Our most significant sports programming commitments include an agreement with the NFL to produce and broadcast a specified number of regular season and
playoff games, includingSunday Night Footballon NBC through the 2022-23 season and the 2015, 2018 and 2021 Super Bowl games. In addition, the NBC network owns the U.S. broadcast rights for the summer and winter Olympic Games through 2020.
We also have broadcast rights to a specified number of NHL games through the 2020-21 season, U.S. television rights to English Premier League soccer through the 2015-16 season, certain PGA TOUR golf events through 2021 and certain NASCAR events
through 2024. NBCUniversal’s sports programming agreements also include rights to distribute content on our national cable networks, including NBC Sports Network and Golf Channel, on our regional sports networks where applicable, and also
online, including through mobile apps available for smartphones and tablets.

Our broadcast television production operations develop and
produce original content, including scripted and unscripted series and talk shows. This original content is licensed to broadcast networks, cable networks and local broadcast television stations owned by us and third parties, as well as to digital
distributors, and is sold in DVD format, both in the United States and internationally. We also produce “first-run” syndicated shows, which are programs for initial exhibition on local television stations in the United States, on a
market-by-market basis, without prior exhibition on a network. We currently distribute some of our television programs after their initial exhibition, as well as older television programs from our library, to local broadcast television stations and
cable networks in the off-network syndication market.





9Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




NBC Local Broadcast Television Stations

We own and operate 10 NBC affiliated local television stations that as of December 31, 2013 collectively reached 31 million U.S.
television households, which represents approximately 27% of all U.S. television households. In addition to airing the NBC network’s national programming, our local television stations produce news, sports, public affairs and other programming
that addresses local needs and acquire syndicated programming from other sources. The table below presents a summary of the NBC affiliated local broadcast television stations that we own and operate.



DMA Served(a)StationGeneral Market 
Rank(b)Percentage of U.S.Television Households(c)New York, NYWNBC16%Los Angeles, CAKNBC25%Chicago, ILWMAQ33%Philadelphia, PAWCAU43%Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXAS52%San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKNTV62%Washington, D.C.WRC82%Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FLWTVJ161%San Diego, CAKNSD281%Hartford, CTWVIT301%



(a)Designated market area (“DMA”) served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local
advertising time.



(b)General market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among the 210 generally recognized DMAs in the United States based on Nielsen estimates for the
2013-14 season.



(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2013-14 season. The percentage of U.S. television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach
under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits. See “Legislation and Regulation — Broadcast Television — Ownership Limits — National Television Ownership.”

Telemundo

Telemundo is a leading
Hispanic media company that produces, acquires and distributes Spanish-language content in the United States and internationally. Telemundo’s operations include the Telemundo network, its 17 owned local television stations, the mun2 cable
network and brand-aligned digital media properties.

The Telemundo network is a leading Spanish-language broadcast television network
featuring original telenovelas, theatrical films, news, specials and sporting events. Telemundo develops original programming primarily through its production studio and also acquires the rights to content from third parties. We currently hold the
Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights to FIFA World Cup soccer from 2015 through 2022 and the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights for the NFL games that the NBC network will broadcast through the 2022-23 season as part of our agreement with the
NFL.





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K10




Telemundo Local Broadcast Television Stations

As of December 31, 2013, Telemundo owned 17 local television stations, including 16 local television stations affiliated with the Telemundo
network and an independent television station in Puerto Rico. The table below presents a summary of these local television stations, which collectively reached approximately 59% of U.S. Hispanic television households as of December 31, 2013.



DMA Served(a)StationHispanic Market 
Rank(b)Percentage of U.S.Hispanic TelevisionHouseholds(c)Los Angeles, CAKVEA113%New York, NYWNJU210%Miami, FLWSCV35%Houston, TXKTMD44%Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXTX54%Chicago, ILWSNS64%San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKSTS73%San Antonio, TXKVDA(d)83%Phoenix, AZKTAZ93%Harlingen-Brownsville-McAllen, TXKTLM102%Fresno, CAKNSO(d)142%Denver, COKDEN152%Philadelphia, PAWWSI182%Boston, MAWNEU(d)231%Las Vegas, NVKBLR241%Tucson, AZKHRR251%Puerto RicoWKAQ——



(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.



(b)Hispanic market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among approximately 14.7 million U.S. Hispanic households as of December 31, 2013.



(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2013-14 season. The percentage of U.S. Hispanic television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience
reach under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits. See “Legislation and Regulation — Broadcast Television — Ownership Limits — National Television Ownership.”



(d)Operated by a third party that provides certain non-network programming and operations services under a time brokerage agreement.

Filmed Entertainment

Our Filmed Entertainment segment produces, acquires, markets and distributes both live-action and animated filmed entertainment worldwide. We also develop, produce and license live stage plays and own various
digital media properties that are aligned with our filmed entertainment content.

We produce films both on our own and jointly with
other studios or production companies, as well as with other entities. Our films are produced primarily under the Universal Pictures, Focus Features and Illumination names. Our films are marketed and distributed worldwide primarily through our own
marketing and distribution companies. We also acquire distribution rights to films produced by others, which may be limited to particular geographic regions, specific forms of media or certain periods of time. Our content consists of theatrical
films, direct-to-video titles and our film library, which is comprised of more than 5,000 titles in a variety of genres.

We have
entered, and may continue to enter, into film cofinancing arrangements with third parties, including both studio and nonstudio entities, to jointly finance or distribute certain of our film productions. These arrangements can take various forms, but
in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an investor. Investors generally assume the full risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film.





11Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




The majority of our produced and acquired films are initially distributed for exhibition in movie
theaters. After their release in movie theaters, we sell and license our films through various methods. We distribute our films globally by selling them in DVD format to retail stores, rental kiosks and subscription by mail services and by selling
electronic copies through digital distributors and video-on-demand services provided by multichannel video providers, including our Cable Communications segment. We also license our films, including selections from our film library, to cable,
broadcast and premium networks, to digital distributors, and to video-on-demand and pay-per-view services. The volume of our content that is made available through digital distributors is increasing as consumers continue to seek alternative ways to
view our content.

Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenue primarily from the worldwide distribution of our produced and
acquired films for exhibition in movie theaters, the sale of our owned and acquired films in home entertainment formats, such as DVDs, and the licensing of our owned and acquired films. We also generate revenue from producing and licensing live
stage plays and distributing filmed entertainment produced by third parties as well as from various digital media properties.

Theme Parks

Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood. Universal Orlando includes two
theme parks, Universal Studios Florida and Universal’s Islands of Adventure, as well as CityWalk, a dining, retail and entertainment complex. Universal Orlando also features three on-site themed hotels in which we own a noncontrolling interest.
Our Universal theme park in Hollywood consists primarily of Universal Studios Hollywood. In addition, we license the right to use the Universal Studios brand name and other intellectual property, and also provide other services, to third parties
that own and operate the Universal Studios Japan theme park in Osaka, Japan and the Universal Studios Singapore theme park on Sentosa Island, Singapore. We also own a water park, Wet ‘n Wild, located in Orlando.

Our Theme Parks segment licenses the right to use a substantial amount of intellectual property from third parties for its themed elements in
rides, attractions, retail outlets and merchandising.

Our Theme Parks segment generates revenue primarily from theme park attendance
and per capita spending at our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood. Per capita spending includes ticket price and in-park spending on food, beverages and merchandise. We also receive fees from the third parties that own and operate
Universal Studios Japan and Universal Studios Singapore for intellectual property licenses and other services.

Competition



All of our businesses
operate in intensely competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environments and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of communications products and services and entertainment, news and information products
and services to consumers. Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape for all of our businesses by challenging existing business models and affecting consumer behavior.

Cable Communications

Competition for the
cable services we offer consists primarily of direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) providers, which have a national footprint and compete in all our service areas, and phone companies, which overlap approximately 45% of our service areas and
are continuing to expand their fiber-based networks. These competitors offer features, pricing and packaging for cable services that are comparable to the pricing and services we offer. There also continue to be new companies, some with significant
financial resources, that potentially may compete on a larger scale with our cable services. For example, companies continue to emerge that provide Internet streaming and downloading of video programming, some of which charge a





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K12




nominal or no fee, and Google recently launched high-speed Internet and video services in a limited number of areas. Moreover, wireless technology, such as 3G and 4G wireless broadband services
and Wi-Fi networks, may compete with our video and high-speed Internet services, and our voice services are facing increased competition as a result of wireless and Internet-based phone services.

Video Services

We compete with a
number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:



•DBS providers that transmit satellite signals containing video programming and other information to receiving dishes located on the customer’s premises



•phone companies that have built and continue to build fiber-optic-based networks that provide cable services similar to ours, which now overlap a substantial
portion of our service areas



•other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable
operators



•satellite master antenna television (“SMATV”) systems that generally serve MDUs, office complexes and residential developments

We also may compete with online digital distributors that offer online services and
devices that enable Internet video streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming.

In recent years,
Congress has enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory policies intended to provide a favorable operating environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to our cable services. The FCC adopted rules favoring new
investment by certain phone companies in networks capable of distributing video programming and rules allocating and auctioning spectrum for new wireless services that may compete with our video service offerings. See “Legislation and
Regulation” below for additional information.

Direct Broadcast Satellite Providers

According to recent government and industry reports, conventional medium-power and high-power satellites provide video programming to
34 million subscribers in the United States. DBS providers with high-power satellites typically offer video services substantially similar to our video services. Two companies, DIRECTV and DISH Network, provide service to substantially all of
these DBS subscribers. DBS providers also have marketing arrangements with certain phone companies in which the DBS provider’s video services are sold together with the phone company’s high-speed Internet and phone services.

Phone Companies

Certain
phone companies, in particular AT&T, Verizon and CenturyLink, have built and are continuing to build wireline fiber-optic-based networks that provide video and high-speed Internet services in substantial portions of our service areas. These and
other phone companies also may market video services provided by DBS providers in certain areas where they provide only high-speed Internet and phone services.

Other Wireline Providers

Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from
unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises, and it permits franchising authorities to operate cable systems. In addition to phone companies, various other companies, including those that traditionally have not provided cable services
and have significant financial resources, have obtained cable franchises and provide competing cable services. These and other cable





13Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




systems offer cable services in some areas where we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based competitors may emerge in other franchise areas that we serve.

Satellite Master Antenna Television Systems

Our cable services also compete for customers with SMATV systems. SMATV system operators typically are not subject to regulation in the same manner as local, franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer
their subscribers both improved reception of local broadcast television stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems. In addition, some SMATV system operators offer packages of video, Internet and phone services to residential
and business subscribers.

Other

We may also compete with newer online services from digital distributors that enable Internet video streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other video programming and in some cases charge a
nominal or no fee. Additionally, we may compete with consumer electronic companies that sell Internet-connected TVs or gaming consoles that provide their own user interface for searching TV programs and offer links to various third-party apps. The
success of these newer services could negatively impact demand for our video services, including for our DVR, premium network, On Demand and streaming services.

Our cable services also may compete for customers with other companies, such as local broadcast television stations that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming, as well as newer services that
provide programming from such broadcasts online for a fee, as well as video rental services and home entertainment products.

High-Speed
Internet Services

We compete with a number of companies offering Internet services, many of which have substantial resources,
including:



•wireline phone companies



•Internet service providers



•wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service



•power companies



•municipal broadband networks

Digital subscriber line (“DSL”) technology allows Internet access to be
provided to customers over phone lines at data transmission speeds substantially greater than those of dial-up modems. Phone companies and certain other companies offer DSL service, and several of these companies have increased data transmission
speeds, lowered prices or created bundled service packages. In addition, some phone companies, such as AT&T, Verizon and CenturyLink, have built and are continuing to build fiber-optic-based networks that allow them to provide data transmission
speeds that exceed those that can be provided with DSL technology and are now offering these higher-speed services in many of our service areas. Additionally, Google recently launched high-speed Internet services in a limited number of areas.

Various wireless companies are offering Internet services using a variety of network types, including 3G and 4G wireless high-speed
Internet networks and Wi-Fi networks. Some of these services are similar to ours. These networks work with devices such as wireless data cards and wireless embedded devices, such as smartphones, laptops, tablets and mobile wireless routers that
connect to such embedded devices. In addition, a growing number of commercial venues, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K14




service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and other Internet access networks. The availability of these wireless offerings could
negatively impact the demand for our high-speed Internet services.

Voice Services

Our voice services compete with wireline phone companies, including incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”) competitive local exchange
carriers (“CLECs”), wireless phone service providers and other VoIP service providers. Certain phone companies, such as the ILECs AT&T and Verizon, have substantial capital and other resources, longstanding customer relationships, and
extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources. In addition, we are increasingly competing with wireless phone service providers as people substitute mobile
phones for landline phones and with Internet-based phone services.

Business Services

Our business services primarily compete with a variety of phone companies, including ILECs and CLECs. These companies either operate their own
network infrastructure or rely on reselling another carrier’s network. We also compete with satellite operators who provide video offerings for businesses.

NBCUniversal Segments

Cable Networks and Broadcast Television

Our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for viewers’ attention and audience
share with all forms of programming provided to viewers, including cable, broadcast and premium networks, local broadcast television stations, home entertainment, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, online activities, such as social
networking and viewing user-generated content, and other forms of entertainment, news and information. Our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations may compete for viewers’ attention with
digital distributors, some of which have their own high-quality original content.

Our cable networks, broadcast television networks and
owned local broadcast television stations compete for the acquisition of programming and for on-air and creative talent with other cable and broadcast networks, local television stations and online digital distributors. The market for programming is
very competitive, particularly for sports programming, where the cost for such programming is significant.

Our cable networks compete
with other cable networks and programming providers for carriage of their programming by multichannel video providers and online digital distributors. Our broadcast television networks compete with the other broadcast networks in markets across the
United States to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience.

In addition, our cable networks and broadcast television production operations compete with other production companies and creators of content for
the acquisition of story properties, creative, performing and technical personnel, and with distributors for their content and for consumer interest in their content.

Filmed Entertainment

Our filmed entertainment business competes for audiences for its
films and other entertainment content with other major studios and, to a lesser extent, with independent film producers, as well as with alternative forms of entertainment. Our competitive position primarily depends on the number of films we
produce, their distribution and marketing success, and consumer response. Our filmed entertainment business also competes to obtain creative, performing and technical talent, including writers, actors, directors and producers, as well





15Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




as scripts for films. Our filmed entertainment business also competes with the other major studios and other producers of entertainment content for sources of financing for the production of its
films, for the exhibition of its films in theaters, and for shelf space in retail stores for its DVDs and with digital distributors for the licensing and sale of its products.

Theme Parks

Our theme parks business competes with other multi-park entertainment
companies. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our theme parks, we have invested and continue to invest in existing and new theme park
attractions and infrastructure. The investment required to introduce new attractions in our theme parks can be significant.

Advertising

Our cable communications business, cable networks, broadcast television networks, and owned local broadcast television stations compete
for the sale of advertising time with other television networks and stations, as well as with all other advertising platforms, such as radio stations, print media and websites. Additionally, advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from
us may be adversely affected by lower audience ratings at our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations. Declines in advertising revenue also can be caused by increased competition for the leisure
time of audiences and audience fragmentation and from the growing use of new technologies such as DVRs, which give consumers greater flexibility to watch programming on a time-delayed or on-demand basis or to fast-forward or skip advertisements
within programming.

Seasonality and Cyclicality



Each of our businesses is subject to
seasonal and cyclical variations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Seasonality and Cyclicality” for additional information.

Legislation and Regulation





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K16




Cable Communications Segment



Video Services

Program Carriage

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Cable operators are currently required to carry,
without compensation, the programming transmitted by most local commercial and noncommercial broadcast television stations. Alternatively, local broadcast television stations may choose to negotiate with a cable operator for retransmission consent,
under which the station gives up its must-carry rights and instead seeks to negotiate a carriage agreement with the cable operator. Such an agreement may involve payments to the station. We are currently paying certain local broadcast television
stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of the stations’ broadcast programming to our video services customers and expect to continue to be subject to increasing demands for payment and other concessions from
local broadcast television stations. For information on must-carry and retransmission consent issues relating to our broadcast television business, see “NBCUniversal Segments—Broadcast Television” below and refer to the
“Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” discussion within that section.

Pricing and Packaging

The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the prices that cable operators may charge for basic video service, equipment and installation.
These rules do not apply to cable systems that the FCC determines are subject to effective competition, or where franchising authorities have chosen not to regulate rates. As a result, approximately 80% of our video services customers are not
subject to rate regulation. From time to time, Congress and the FCC consider imposing new pricing or packaging regulations, including proposals that would require cable operators to offer programming networks on an a la carte or themed-tier basis
instead of, or in addition to, our current packaged offerings. Additionally, uniform pricing requirements under the Communications Act may affect our ability to respond to increased competition through offers that aim to retain existing customers or
regain those we have lost.

Leased Access

The Communications Act requires a cable system to make available up to 15% of its channel capacity for commercial leased access by third parties to provide programming that may compete with services offered





17Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




directly by the cable operator. While we have not been required to devote significant channel capacity to leased access to date, the FCC has adopted regulations that dramatically reduce the rates
we can charge for leased access channels, although their implementation has been stayed by a federal court pending the outcome of a challenge brought by us and other cable operators and also has been blocked by the Office of Management and Budget.
If implemented, these regulations could adversely affect our business by significantly increasing the number of cable system channels occupied by leased access users and by significantly increasing the administrative burdens and costs associated
with complying with such regulations.

Cable Equipment

The FCC has adopted regulations aimed at promoting the retail sale of set-top boxes and other equipment that can be used to receive digital video services. With the exception of certain one-way devices, like
digital transport adapters, these regulations prohibit cable operators from deploying new set-top boxes that perform both channel navigation and security functions. As a result, most set-top boxes that we purchase must rely on a separate security
device known as a CableCARD. In addition, the FCC has adopted regulations aimed at promoting the manufacture of plug-and-play TV sets and other equipment that can connect directly to a cable system with a CableCARD and receive one-way video services
without the need for a set-top box. The regulations also require cable operators to provide a credit to customers who use plug-and-play equipment purchased at retail and to allow them to self-install CableCARDs rather than having to arrange for
professional installation. A federal court vacated some of these CableCARD rules in a decision in January 2013. The FCC has sought comment on an equipment manufacturer’s proposal that the FCC readopt these rules, and also has received requests
that it supplant CableCARDs with another technology that would enable retail video devices to work on any multichannel video provider system, not just a cable system. We are unable to predict what, if any, proposals might be adopted or what effect
they might have on our cable business.

In December 2013, we, other multichannel video providers, equipment manufacturers and other
entities announced a voluntary agreement taking steps to improve the energy efficiency of set-top boxes. In response, the Department of Energy terminated a rulemaking it had initiated in this area. However, proposals to impose energy efficiency
requirements on set-top boxes and network equipment continue to be considered at the state level and we cannot predict what, if any, proposals might be adopted in the future. In addition, the NBCUniversal Order requires us to fulfill commitments
designed to improve the parental control tools and information available to parents, including providing navigation and blocking capabilities for certain set-top boxes.

MDUs and Inside Wiring

FCC regulations prohibit exclusive video service access
agreements between cable operators and MDUs or other private residential real estate developments, as well as our enforcement of exclusivity provisions in any of our pre-existing access agreements. FCC regulations also facilitate competitors’
access to the cable wiring inside such properties.

Pole Attachments

The Communications Act permits the FCC to regulate the rates that pole-owning utility companies (with the exception of municipal utilities and rural
cooperatives) charge cable systems for attachments to their poles. States are permitted to preempt FCC jurisdiction and regulate the terms of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so. Most of these states have
generally followed the FCC’s pole attachment rate standards. Until recently, the pole attachment rates applicable to telecommunications services were significantly higher than the rates we currently pay for cable and other services. In February
2013, a federal court upheld the FCC’s pole rate formula that reduces the rates for telecommunications service pole attachments to levels that are at or near the rates for cable attachments, but utility companies are able to rebut certain
presumptions in the new formula, and it is expected that most will attempt to do so.





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K18




Vertical Ownership Limit

The FCC is assessing whether to revise a limit on the number of affiliated programming channels that a cable operator may carry on a cable system. The FCC’s previous limit of 40% of the first 75 channels
carried on a cable system was struck down by a federal appellate court in 2001, although the FCC continues to enforce it. The FCC previously clarified that, under the 40% limit, cable systems with 75 or more channels must carry at least 45
unaffiliated channels. Our cable systems routinely carry more than 45 unaffiliated channels, and we currently comply with the 40% limit. Compliance could become more difficult depending on what regulations, if any, the FCC adopts.

Franchising

Cable operators
generally operate their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or state franchising authorities. While the terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, franchises typically last for a
fixed term, obligate the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet service quality, customer service and other requirements, and are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions. The Communications Act permits franchising
authorities to establish reasonable requirements for public, educational and governmental access (“PEG”) programming, and some of our franchises require substantial channel capacity and financial support for this programming. The
NBCUniversal Order contains various PEG-related conditions, including a requirement that we do not migrate PEG channels to digital delivery on our cable system until the system has converted to all-digital distribution or until the government entity
that is responsible for the system’s PEG operations expressly agrees. The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the franchising process, including, among other things, renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees
against arbitrary denials of renewal. We believe that our franchise renewal prospects are generally favorable.

FCC regulations
establish franchising processes and obligations for new entrants that are different from those applicable to existing providers. For example, these regulations limit the range of financial, construction and other commitments that franchising
authorities can request of new entrants and preempt certain local “level playing field” franchising requirements. In addition, approximately half of the states in which we operate have enacted legislation to provide statewide franchising
or to simplify local franchising requirements for new entrants. Some of these statutes also allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the new entrant provide service to all
parts of the franchise area or permitting the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve. Certain of these statutes allow incumbent cable operators to opt into the new state franchise immediately or later when a competing state
franchise has been issued for the incumbent cable operator’s franchise area. However, even in those states, the incumbent cable operators often are required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than the new
entrant’s state franchise.

Copyright Regulation

In exchange for filing reports and contributing a percentage of revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool, cable operators can obtain blanket permission to retransmit copyrighted material contained in broadcast
signals. The possible modification or elimination of this copyright license is the subject of ongoing legislative and administrative review. The Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 (“STELA”), which expires in 2014, made
several revisions to the cable operator’s compulsory copyright license, including clarifying that cable operators must pay additional royalty fees for each digital multicast programming stream from an out-of market broadcast station they
retransmit that does not duplicate the content of the station’s primary stream. It also establishes an audit mechanism for copyright owners to review a cable operator’s copyright royalty reporting practices, which the Copyright Office is
now in the process of implementing. Extension of STELA will be an issue that Congress addresses in 2014. As required by STELA, the Copyright Office, the GAO and the FCC all issued reports to Congress in 2011 that generally supported an eventual
phaseout of the compulsory licenses, although they also acknowledged the potential adverse impact on cable





19Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




and satellite subscribers and the absence of any clear marketplace alternative to the compulsory licenses. If adopted, a phaseout plan could adversely affect our ability to obtain broadcast
station programming and substantially increase our programming costs.

High-Speed Internet Services

We provide high-speed Internet services over our cable distribution system. In 2002, the FCC ruled that high-speed Internet services such as ours
are interstate information services that are not subject to regulation as a telecommunications service under federal law or to state or local utility regulation. However, our high-speed Internet services are subject to a number of regulatory
obligations, including compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) requirement that high-speed Internet service providers implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting
surveillance of persons suspected of criminal activity.

The NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree also include various conditions and commitments requiring us to expand our broadband service areas, to continue to offer all of our high-speed Internet service
speed tiers on a stand-alone basis at reasonable market-based prices, to offer a new stand-alone 6 Mbps downstream tier (known as the performance starter tier) for $49.95 per month for three years, to maintain a high-speed Internet service of at
least 12 Mbps downstream across most of our footprint, and to not discriminate in how we treat “specialized services” (defined as services we provide over the same last-mile facilities as our high-speed Internet service, but not including
our high-speed Internet service, video services or voice services). We have taken a number of steps to comply with these conditions. In 2012, after an FCC inquiry into whether we failed to comply with the stand-alone broadband condition, we entered
into a consent decree with the FCC to extend our offering of the performance starter tier for one additional year until Febru-





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K20




ary 2015 and to reinforce the promotion of our stand-alone broadband offerings, including training our sales representatives with respect to these offerings.

A federal program known as the Universal Service program generally requires telecommunications service providers to pay a fee based on revenue from
their services into a fund used to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and to low-income consumers and the provision of Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care
providers. The FCC issued an order in November 2011 that changed the way that a majority of Universal Service funds are allocated and began implementing that order in 2012. By focusing on broadband and wireless deployment, and moving away from
supporting traditional telephone service, the changes could assist some of our competitors in more effectively competing with our service offerings, while others could receive less funding. The actual impact of the changes is not yet known. The
FCC’s ruling is under review in federal court.

In addition, in November 2011, the FCC initiated a further rulemaking on IP
interconnection issues that may have an impact on Internet interconnection arrangements. We have a number of peering and transit arrangements with other network operators, and these arrangements historically have not been regulated by the FCC. The
FCC Chairman, however, has stressed that the FCC has a responsibility to ensure “connectivity” of the Internet and although he has made clear that he does not consider peering and transit arrangements to be an “open Internet”
issue, he considers it a related issue that the FCC, at a minimum, should monitor. We cannot predict what, if any, proposals might be adopted or what effect they might have on our business.

In addition, Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer
privacy, consumer protection, copyright protection, defamation liability, taxation, obscenity and unsolicited commercial email. For example, in 1998, the Internet Tax Freedom Act was enacted in an effort to promote use of the Internet, and it has
been extended three times, but is scheduled to expire on November 1, 2014, unless it is extended again. State and local governments also have adopted Internet-related regulations. Furthermore, Congress, the FCC, and certain state and local
governments are considering proposals to impose customer service, quality of service, expanded copyright protection requirements, taxation, child safety, privacy and standard pricing regulations on high-speed Internet service providers. It is
uncertain whether any of these proposals will be adopted. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws to the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our high-speed Internet business.

Voice Services





21Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Other Cable Services Regulations

State and
Local Taxes

Some states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on the cable services we
offer, or imposing adverse methodologies by which taxes or fees are computed. These include combined reporting or other changes to general business taxes, central assessments for property tax, and taxes and fees on video, high-speed Internet and
voice services. We and other cable industry members are challenging certain of these taxes through administrative and court proceedings. In addition, in some situations our DBS competitors and other competitors that deliver their services over a
high-speed Internet connection do not face similar state tax and fee burdens. Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to bar states from imposing taxes on DBS providers that are equivalent to the taxes or fees that we pay.

NBCUniversal Segments



Cable Networks

Program Access

The Communications
Act and FCC regulations generally prevent cable networks affiliated with cable operators, other than terrestrially delivered programming networks, from favoring affiliated cable operators over competing multichannel video providers, such as DBS
providers and phone companies that offer multichannel video programming services. In addition, the Communications Act and FCC regulations had limited the ability of cable-affiliated cable networks to offer exclusive programming contracts to a cable
operator. In October 2012, the FCC allowed a preemptive restriction on exclusive contracts to expire but reaffirmed that any such exclusive contract could be reviewed on a case-by-case basis in response to a complaint alleging violation of the
Communications Act’s prohibition against unfair methods of competition or unfair or deceptive acts or practices that hinder significantly or prevent competitors from providing programming to customers. In addition, the FCC





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K22




is considering proposals to establish presumptions that would make it easier for multichannel video providers to succeed with complaints involving exclusive contracts and to make it easier for
them to use buying groups and for such buying groups to pursue complaints under the rules. It is uncertain whether the FCC will act on these proposals and, if adopted, what impact these proposals would have on our cable networks.

The FCC launched a rulemaking in 2007 to consider whether companies that own multiple cable networks should be required to make each of their
networks available to multichannel video providers on a stand-alone or “unbundled” basis when negotiating distribution agreements, although it has not further acted on that rulemaking. We currently offer our cable networks both on a
bundled and, when requested, on a stand-alone basis. Increased regulatory requirements imposed on the manner in which we negotiate programming distribution agreements with multichannel video providers may adversely affect our cable networks
business. In addition, various legislative proposals have been introduced in Congress that, if ever enacted, would mandate that programmers offer cable networks to multichannel video providers on an a la carte basis and would provide certain
program-access rights and protections to online video distributors. It is uncertain whether any of these proposals will ever be adopted and, if adopted, what impact these proposals would have on our cable networks.

Under the terms of the NBCUniversal Order, multichannel video providers can invoke commercial arbitration for program access in certain
circumstances against our cable networks and broadcast television networks, including our regional sports networks. In addition, under the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable network,
broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming available to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances, and they may invoke commercial arbitration pursuant to conditions adopted in the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal
Consent Decree to resolve disputes regarding the availability of, and the price, terms and conditions of access to, such programming. For further discussion of these conditions, see “Broadcast Television” below and refer to the
“Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” and “Internet Distribution” discussions within that section.

Children’s
Programming

The Children’s Television Act (“CTA”) and FCC regulations limit the amount and content of commercial matter
that may be shown on cable networks, broadcast networks and broadcast television stations during programming originally produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children under 13 years of age. FCC regulations also limit the display during
children’s programming on cable or broadcast of Internet addresses of websites that contain or link to commercial material or that use program characters to sell products. Similarly, FCC regulations prohibit the display of commercials during
children’s programming on cable or broadcast networks that use program characters to sell products when the commercial is adjacent to children’s programming in which the characters appear. The FCC is currently considering whether to
prohibit interactive advertising during children’s television programming. The NBCUniversal Order includes certain commitments and conditions related to children’s television and advertising directed at children, including commitments that
we will not insert interactive advertising into children’s television programming in any of the advertising spots we control, either as a multichannel video provider or as the programmer, and that we will provide at least $15 million worth of
public service announcements on childhood obesity, FDA nutritional guidelines, digital literacy and parental controls per year until 2016.

Broadcast
Television

Licensing

The Communications Act permits the operation of local broadcast television stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a
finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants broadcast television station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms.
Under the Communications Act, broadcast





23Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




television licenses may be granted for a maximum term of eight years. Generally, the FCC renews broadcast licenses upon finding that the television station has served the public interest,
convenience and necessity; there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC regulations; and there have been no violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC regulations, which, taken together,
indicate a pattern of abuse.

In addition, CTA and FCC regulations require that the FCC consider in its review of broadcast television
station license renewals whether the station has served the educational and informational (“E/I”) needs of children. Under the FCC’s regulations, a station licensee will be deemed to have met its obligation to serve the E/I needs of
children if it has broadcast on its main program stream a minimum of three hours per week of programming that has a significant purpose of serving the E/I needs of children under 17 years of age. For broadcast television stations that multicast, FCC
regulations include a similar standard whereby the amount of E/I programming deemed to meet the station’s E/I obligation increases in proportion to the amount of free multicast programming aired. Under the NBCUniversal Order, we have committed
to provide an additional hour of E/I programming per week on either the primary or multicast streams of our owned NBC local broadcast television stations and on the primary signal of our owned Telemundo local broadcast television stations. The FCC
is considering whether the requirements for E/I programming have been effective in promoting the availability of educational content for children on broadcast television, and there can be no assurance that the FCC will not impose more stringent
requirements.

Under the NBCUniversal Order, we have committed to expand local news and information programming on our owned local
television stations and to enter into cooperative arrangements with locally focused nonprofit news organizations in certain markets. We have met all of these commitments.

Renewal applications are pending for a number of our broadcast television station licenses. The FCC may grant any license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the
maximum otherwise permitted. A station’s authority to operate is automatically extended while a renewal application is on file and under review. Four pending applications have been formally opposed by third parties and other applications are
pending due to unresolved complaints of alleged indecency in the stations’ programming. The Communications Act also requires prior FCC approval for any sale of a broadcast station license, whether through the assignment of the license and
related assets from one company to another or the transfer of control of the stock or other equity of a company holding an FCC license. Third parties may oppose such applications. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in
certain circumstances. Although we have received such renewals and approvals in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary renewals or that approvals in the future will contain acceptable FCC license conditions.

Ownership Limits

FCC
regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have “attributable interests” above specific levels in local television stations, as well as other specified mass media entities, such as limits on the cross-ownership of
broadcast stations and newspapers in the same market. The FCC, by law, must review the ownership regulations detailed below once every four years. The current review, which officially opened in 2010, led to proposals in December 2011 (“2011
Media Ownership Notice”) for relaxing some limits, but retaining others. The FCC has not yet adopted an order in the 2010 proceeding, although the Communications Act requires that the agency launch its next ownership review proceeding in 2014.
We cannot predict when the FCC’s current review will be completed or whether or how any of these regulations will change.

Local
Television Ownership

Under the FCC’s local television ownership rule, a licensee may own up to two broadcast television
stations in the same DMA, as long as at least one of the two stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K24




market based on audience share as of the date an application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the FCC and at least eight independently owned and operating full-power broadcast
television stations remain in the market following the acquisition. Further, without regard to the number of remaining independently owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of more than one television station within the same DMA so
long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap. The 2011 Media Ownership Notice proposes minor modifications to the local television ownership rule. It also raises questions regarding whether local news-sharing agreements,
shared services agreements, and joint sales agreements that involve the right to jointly negotiate retransmission consent should count toward the FCC’s ownership limitations. The stations owned by the NBC network or the Telemundo network,
however, do not have agreements that involve the right to jointly negotiate retransmission consent.

National Television Ownership

The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the number of television stations one entity may own or control nationally. Under
the rule, no entity may have an attributable interest in broadcast television stations that reach, in the aggregate, more than 39% of all U.S. television households. Our owned local television station reach does not exceed this limit. In September
2013, the FCC launched a rulemaking that considers eliminating a rule that currently affords UHF stations (channels 14 and above) a 50% discount in calculating the extent of an individual station owner’s holdings under the national cap.
Adoption of this proposed change would place us closer to the national cap and limit our flexibility to acquire stations in the future.

Foreign Ownership

The
Communications Act generally limits foreign ownership in a broadcast station to 20% direct ownership and 25% indirect ownership (i.e., through one or more subsidiaries), although the limit on indirect ownership can be waived if the FCC finds it to
be in the public interest. These limits have been held to apply to both voting control and equity, as well as to ownership by any form of entity, including corporations, partnerships and limited liability companies. For many decades the FCC has
declined to waive the 25% indirect limit in broadcast transactions, but in a November 2013 declaratory ruling, the FCC stated that it is now willing to consider such waiver requests.

Dual Network Rule

The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major
broadcast television networks, ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC, from being under common ownership or control with another of the four.

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Every three years, each commercial television station must elect for each cable system in its DMA either must-carry or retransmission consent.
Federal law and FCC regulations also establish a must-carry/retransmission consent election system for carriage of commercial television stations by satellite providers. For the period beginning on January 1, 2012 and ending on
December 31, 2014, all of our NBC network and Telemundo network owned local television stations, except for certain Telemundo local television stations acquired in 2013, elected retransmission consent.

In enacting STELA in 2010, Congress modified certain aspects of the compulsory copyright licenses under which satellite providers and cable
operators retransmit broadcast stations. STELA expressly extended to January 1, 2015 an existing prohibition against commercial television stations entering into exclusive retransmission consent agreements with multichannel video providers and
also extended a requirement that commercial television stations and multichannel video providers negotiate retransmission consent agreements in good faith. Several other multichannel video providers and third parties filed a petition asking the FCC
to initiate a rulemaking to consider changes to the current retransmission consent regulations and also asked Congress to review the issue. The FCC launched a rulemaking in 2011 that, among other things, seeks comment on proposals to modify the good
faith negotiating standard and to eliminate regulations providing





25Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




local television stations with exclusivity protections in their markets for network and syndicated programming. Legislation has been introduced that would eliminate both must-carry and
retransmission consent as well as more narrow legislation that would aim to resolve impasses in retransmission consent negotiations. We cannot predict what new laws or regulations, if any, may be adopted or how any such laws or regulations would
affect our businesses. Multichannel video providers may also invoke commercial arbitration under rules established in the NBCUniversal Order to resolve disputes regarding carriage of our owned local broadcast television stations.

Internet Distribution

Under the
NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming available to bona fide online video distributors in certain circumstances, and they
may invoke commercial arbitration to resolve disputes regarding the availability, and the price, terms and conditions of access to such programming. In addition, we are required to continue distributing programming via nbc.com that is generally
equivalent to the programming that we distributed via nbc.com as of January 1, 2011, on generally equivalent price, terms and conditions, so long as at least one of the other major broadcast networks continues to distribute its programming in a
similar fashion. We are one of three broadcast network owners of Hulu, but we were required to relinquish all voting rights and our board seat in Hulu in connection with the NBCUniversal transaction. In compliance with our obligations under the
NBCUniversal Order and the NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we have entered into renewal license agreements with Hulu on substantially the same terms as its other broadcast network owners.

Broadcast Spectrum

In February 2012, Congress authorized the FCC to conduct an
incentive auction to reassign a portion of the broadcast spectrum for mobile broadband use. Under the statute, broadcasters may voluntarily relinquish some or all of their spectrum rights in exchange for a share of the proceeds of the FCC’s
auction of the spectrum to mobile broadband providers. Broadcasters that do not voluntarily relinquish their spectrum rights may still be affected as part of the process of clearing and repacking the spectrum for future mobile use, but Congress
required the FCC to make “all reasonable efforts” to preserve broadcasters’ over-the-air coverage area and population served, and to reimburse those broadcasters’ reasonable costs. The FCC currently is conducting a proceeding to
implement this statute, including establishing processes for how the spectrum will be repacked and how the broadcasters will be reimbursed for relocation costs. We cannot predict whether or how any such regulations might affect our businesses.

Indecency

A federal
statute and FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material on television stations at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating this prohibition because the vagueness of
the relevant FCC definitions makes it difficult to apply. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy that had generally considered all
indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. The maximum penalty for broadcasting indecent or profane programming is $350,000 per indecent or profane utterance.

Indecency regulation has been the subject of recent court review, regarding both the FCC’s “fleeting expletives” policy and the
FCC’s definition of what constitutes indecent material. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the FCC’s assessment of indecency fines against ABC and FOX on the grounds that the agency failed to provide fair notice of its
standards and enforcement policy. However, the court declined to rule on the constitutionality of the FCC’s indecency policy under the First Amendment. This ruling may result in the FCC’s clarification of its policy and changes to how it
approaches future indecency-related enforcement actions. In this regard, in April 2013, the FCC sought public comment regarding its indecency





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K26




enforcement policies. From time to time, we have received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on our owned local
television stations included indecent or profane material. Increased content regulation, particularly if it is vague and difficult to apply, could have an adverse effect on our broadcast television business.

Sponsorship Identification

Federal
legislation and FCC regulations provide that whenever a broadcast station transmits any programming for which it has received money, service or other valuable consideration, it must provide an accurate on-air identification of the sponsor of the
programming. Similar rules apply to cable operators in origination cablecasting (e.g., local origination programming). In 2008, the FCC commenced a proceeding to examine whether “embedded advertising,” such as product placements and
product integration, in broadcast programming should be subject to stricter disclosure requirements and whether the sponsorship identification regulations should be extended to cable networks, although the FCC has taken no action to date.

International Regulation

International regulation of television broadcasting varies widely according to jurisdiction and includes the regulation of programming and
advertising. For example, the European Union (“E.U.”) establishes minimum levels of regulation across all E.U. member states focused on content and advertising, which also extends to nonlinear television services, although E.U. countries
are free to impose stricter regulation in certain areas.

Filmed Entertainment

Our filmed entertainment business is subject to the provisions of “trade practice laws” in effect in 25 states and Puerto Rico relating to
theatrical distribution of motion pictures. These laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of
advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. Further, under various consent judgments, federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair competition laws, motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on trade
practices in the United States, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has called for stronger industry safeguards applicable to the
marketing of violent movies to children.

In countries outside the United States, there are a variety of existing or contemplated
governmental laws and regulations that may affect our ability to distribute and license motion picture and television products, as well as consumer merchandise products, including film screen quotas, television quotas, regulation of content,
regulated contract terms, product safety and labeling requirements, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of U.S. products. The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside
their territories is regulated under various international agreements.

Theme Parks

Our theme parks are subject to various regulations, including laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, privacy and data protection,
consumer product safety and theme park operations, such as health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and liquor licenses.

Other
Areas of Regulation



Intellectual
Property

Copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and Internet/domain laws of the United States and other
countries help protect our intellectual property rights. In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution of counterfeit DVDs, peer-to-peer file sharing and other platforms presents challenges for our cable networks,
broadcast television and filmed entertainment businesses. The





27Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of copyrighted material over the Internet or through other methods of distribution, such as through devices, software or websites that allow the
reproduction, viewing, sharing and/or downloading of content by either ignoring or interfering with the content’s security features and copyrighted status, interferes with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to exploit our
content. The extent of copyright protection and the use of technological protections, such as encryption, are controversial. Modifications to existing laws that weaken these protections could have an adverse effect on our ability to license and sell
our programming.

While many legal protections exist to combat piracy, laws in the United States and internationally continue to evolve,
as do technologies used to evade these laws. We have actively engaged in the enforcement of our intellectual property rights and likely will continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content. The repeal of laws intended to combat
piracy and protect intellectual property or weakening of such laws or enforcement in the United States or internationally, or a failure of existing laws to adapt to new technologies, could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our
intellectual property rights, which could negatively impact their value and further increase the costs of enforcing our rights.

Copyright laws also require that we pay standard industry licensing fees for the public performance of music in the programs we distribute, such as
local advertising and local origination programming on our cable systems, as well as in the content we create. The fees we pay to music performance rights organizations are typically renegotiated when we renew licenses with those organizations, and
we cannot predict with certainty what those fees will be in the future or if disputes will arise over them.

There is ongoing litigation
related to a number of online entities that stream our broadcast television content online without the consent of, or compensation to, NBC or its affiliates, and the U.S. Supreme Court has granted certiorari to hear the broadcasting industry’s
challenge to one such entity. We also have brought a suit against a multichannel video provider to challenge the commercial-skipping functionality in its DVR. None of this litigation is final, and the courts have reached different decisions to date.
Additionally, there is a pending legislative proposal in the United States that seems intended to legitimize some of these practices. There can be no assurance as to whether the courts will ultimately determine that these practices are unlawful or
that the pending legislation will be enacted or how any such rulings or legislation would ultimately affect our businesses.

Privacy and Security
Regulation

The Communications Act generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of cable
customers’ personally identifiable information by cable operators. There are exceptions that permit such collection and disclosure for rendering service, conducting legitimate business activities related to the service, and responding to legal
requests. The Communications Act and FCC regulations also provide privacy protections for customer proprietary network information related to our voice services. Several states and numerous local jurisdictions have enacted privacy laws or franchise
privacy provisions that apply to cable services.

The FTC has continued to exercise authority over privacy protections generally, using
its existing authority over unfair and deceptive practices and other public proceedings to apply greater restrictions on the collection and use of personally identifiable and other information relating to consumers. It also has undertaken numerous
enforcement actions against parties that do not provide sufficient security protections against the loss or disclosure of this type of information. In July 2013, FTC regulations implementing the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act
(“COPPA”) went into effect. COPPA imposes requirements on website operators and online services that are aimed at children under 13 years of age, or that collect personal information or knowingly post personal information from children
under 13 years of age. The FTC rules impose some significant new obligations on operators of websites and online services, including expanded categories of





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K28




personal information and new data security and data retention requirements, and also expand the scope of COPPA to reach third-party service providers that knowingly collect personal information
through a child-directed website or service.

We are also subject to state and federal regulations and laws regarding information
security. Most of these regulations and laws apply to customer information that could be used to commit identity theft. Substantially all of the U.S. states and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach notification laws. These laws
generally require that a business give notice to its customers whose financial account information has been disclosed because of a security breach. In addition, we maintain an identity theft program that incorporates the guidance provided under the
FTC’s “red flag rules,” which are designed to detect the warning signs of identity theft. The FTC and state attorneys general also have initiated efforts to increase and enforce transparency requirements about the collection and use
of consumer information, even in de-identified form. These requirements may require ongoing review of new and rapidly evolving technologies and methods for delivering content and advertising to ensure that appropriate notice is given to consumers
and consent is obtained where required.

In February 2013, the President directed the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in
cooperation with other federal agencies and owners and operators of U.S. critical infrastructure to develop a voluntary framework that provides a prioritized, flexible, repeatable, performance-based, and cost-effective approach to cyber risk, which
was released in February 2014. It is a compendium of existing, cross-sector cyber defense processes, practices, and protocols that can help companies identify, assess, and manage their cyber risks and vulnerabilities. Additionally, there are pending
legislative proposals that could impose new requirements on owners and operators of critical infrastructure. We cannot predict what proposals may ultimately be adopted or how such requirements, if any, would affect our businesses.

We are also subject to state and federal “do not call” laws regarding telemarketing and state and federal laws regarding unsolicited
commercial emails, as well as FCC regulations relating to automated telemarketing calls, texts or SMS messages. Additional and more restrictive requirements may be imposed if and to the extent that state or local authorities establish their own
privacy or security standards or if Congress enacts new privacy or security legislation.

Advertising Restrictions

Legislation has been introduced and reports from various government agencies have been issued from time to time urging that restrictions be placed
on advertisements for particular products or services, including prescription drugs and the marketing of food or violent entertainment to children, and on the deductibility of advertising expenses. We are unable to predict whether such reports would
result in legislative proposals, whether legislative proposals may be adopted, or, if adopted, what impact they would have on our businesses.

Environmental Matters

Certain of our
business operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations and involve air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, disposal and cleanup of toxic and hazardous substances. Any failure to comply with environmental requirements could
result in monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims or other costs or liabilities. We have been responsible for the cleanup of environmental contamination at some of NBCUniversal’s current and former facilities and at
off-site waste disposal locations, although our share of the cost of such cleanups to date has not been material. In addition, the California Attorney General and the Alameda County, California District Attorney are investigating whether certain of
our waste disposal policies, procedures and practices are in violation of the California Business and Professions Code and the California Health and Safety Code. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Part I for more information.





29Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Environmental requirements have become more stringent over time, and pending or proposed new
regulations could impact our operations or costs. For example, climate change regulation, such as proposed greenhouse gas emissions limits or cap and trade programs, could result in an increase in the cost of electricity, which is a significant
component of our operational costs at some locations. We are unable to accurately predict how these requirements might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our businesses.

Disabilities Access

Our businesses
are subject to a number of requirements related to ensuring that our services are accessible to individuals with disabilities. Among other things, our voice services and email services must be accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities;
we must provide additional narrations of key visual elements (referred to as “video description”) on certain of our video services and programming; and we must include closed captioning on certain video programming delivered to our
customers. The FCC is very focused on accessibility issues and is currently considering the adoption of additional quality standards for closed captioning. The FCC also has adopted rules that will require that on-screen menus and program guides used
on set-top boxes and other navigation devices to access multichannel video programming be audibly accessible to blind and low-vision customers. The FCC is considering further accessibility requirements for multichannel video providers, broadcasters
and other entities, and we cannot predict what impact those further requirements would have on our businesses.

Other FCC Regulations

The FCC actively regulates other aspects of our businesses, including the mandatory blackout of syndicated, network and sports
programming; customer service standards; loudness of commercial advertisements; political advertising; Emergency Alert System requirements; equal employment opportunity; lottery programming; recordkeeping and public file access requirements;
telemarketing; technical standards relating to operation of the cable systems and television stations; and regulatory fees. We are unable to predict how these regulations might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our
businesses. In addition, while we believe that we are in substantial compliance with FCC regulations, we are occasionally subject to enforcement actions at the FCC, which can result in our having to pay fines to the agency or being subject to other
sanctions.

Employees

As of
December 31, 2013, we had approximately 136,000 full-time and part-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 83,000 and 40,000 were associated with our Cable Communications business and our NBCUniversal businesses, respectively. We also
use freelance and temporary employees in the normal course of our business.

Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and
make informed investment decisions. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify these so-called “forward-looking statements” by words
such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words, and other comparable words. You should
be aware that these statements are only our predictions. In evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties listed in “Risk Factors” and in other reports we file with the SEC.





Comcast 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K30




Additionally, we operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment.
This environment is affected by government regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and services; technological developments; and, particularly in view of new technologies, the
ability to develop and protect intellectual property rights. Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements as a result of any of such factors, which could adversely affect our businesses, results of operations or
financial condition. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

