Item 1: Business

We are a leading provider of entertainment, information and communications products and services. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have developed,
managed and operated cable systems since 1963. On January 28, 2011, we closed our transaction with General Electric Company (“GE”) in which we acquired a 51% controlling interest in the businesses of NBC Universal, Inc. (now named
NBCUniversal Media, LLC (“NBCUniversal”)). Additional information about the transaction is discussed below under the heading “NBCUniversal Segments.” As a result of the NBCUniversal transaction, we report our operations as the
following five reportable business segments:



•Cable Communications(formerly our Cable segment): Provides video, high-speed Internet and voice services (“cable services”) to residential
and business customers in 39 states and the District of Columbia.



•Cable Networks:Consists primarily of our national cable television networks, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks,
our cable television production studio, and our related digital media properties.



•Broadcast Television:Consists primarily of our NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our NBC and Telemundo owned local television stations, our
broadcast television production operations, and our related digital media properties.



•Filmed Entertainment:Consists of the operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment and
stage plays worldwide.



•Theme Parks:Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood.

In 2011, our Cable Communications segment generated 67% of our consolidated revenue
and 83% of our operating income before depreciation and amortization. Our NBCUniversal segments, which are comprised of our Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks segments, generated 34% of our consolidated
revenue and 19% of our operating income before depreciation and amortization.

Our other business interests are included in Corporate
and Other and primarily include Comcast Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers and the Wells Fargo Center, a large, multipurpose arena in Philadelphia. Comcast Spectacor also owns Global Spectrum, which provides facilities management, and
Ovations Food Services, which provides food services, for sporting events, concerts and other events.

For financial and other
information about our reportable segments, refer to Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information and Websites

Our phone
number is (215) 286-1700, and our principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and
any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at
www.sec.gov and on our website at www.comcast.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into our SEC filings.





1Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




General Developments of Our Businesses

The following are the more significant developments in our businesses during 2011:



•the close of the NBCUniversal transaction on January 28, 2011; see “NBCUniversal Segments” below for additional information



•an increase in consolidated revenue of 47.2% to $55.8 billion and an increase in consolidated operating income of 34.3% to $10.7 billion; the NBCUniversal
acquired businesses contributed $14.5 billion to revenue and $1.4 billion to operating income



•an increase in Cable Communications segment revenue of 5.3% to $37.2 billion and an increase in Cable Communications segment operating income before
depreciation and amortization of 6.9% to $15.3 billion



•the entry into an agreement by SpectrumCo to sell its advanced wireless services spectrum licenses to Verizon Wireless, subject to regulatory approval, for
$3.6 billion, of which our portion of the proceeds is expected to be $2.3 billion, and the entry into agency agreements with Verizon Wireless providing, among other things, for Verizon Wireless’ sale of our cable services and our sale of
Verizon Wireless’ products and services



•NBCUniversal’s entry into several significant sports broadcast rights agreements, including with the National Football League (“NFL”), the
International Olympic Committee, the National Hockey League (“NHL”), Federation Internationale de Football Association (“FIFA”) and the PGA TOUR



•NBCUniversal’s acquisition of the 50% equity interest that it did not already own in Universal Orlando for $1 billion on July 1, 2011

Description of Our Businesses

Cable Communications Segment



The table below summarizes certain customer and penetration data for our cable operations.



December 31 (in millions)20112010200920082007Homes and businesses passed(a)52.551.951.250.648.5VideoVideo
customers(b)22.322.823.624.224.1Video
penetration(c)42.5%43.9%46.0%47.8%49.6%Digital video
customers(d)20.619.718.417.015.2Digital video
penetration(d)92.0%86.6%78.2%70.3%63.1%High-speed InternetHigh-speed Internet customers18.117.015.914.913.2High-speed Internet penetration(c)34.5%32.7%31.1%29.5%27.3%VoiceVoice customers9.38.67.66.54.6Voice penetration(c)17.8%16.6%14.9%12.8%9.5%

Basis of Presentation: Information related to cable system acquisitions is included from the date acquired.
Information related to cable systems sold or exchanged is excluded for all periods presented. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.



(a)Homes and businesses are considered passed if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the transmission lines. Homes and
businesses passed is an estimate based on the best available information.





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K2




(b)Generally, a home or business receiving video programming from our distribution system counts as one video customer. In the case of some multiple dwelling
units (“MDUs”), we count video customers on an FCC equivalent basis by dividing total monthly revenue received from a contract with an MDU by the standard monthly residential rate where the specific MDU is located.



(c)Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes and businesses passed. The number of customers includes our residential
and business customers.



(d)Digital video customers include customers receiving digital signals through any means, including cable cards and digital transport adapters. Digital video
penetration is calculated by dividing the number of digital video customers by total video customers.

Cable Services

We offer a variety of cable services over our cable distribution system to residential and business customers. Subscription rates
and related charges vary according to the services and features the customer receives and the type of equipment they use, and customers typically pay us on a monthly basis. Residential customers may generally discontinue service at any time, while
business customers may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of their contracts, which typically have 1 to 3 year terms.

As of December 31, 2011, our cable systems served 22.3 million video customers, 18.1 million high-speed Internet customers and
9.3 million voice customers and passed more than 52 million homes and businesses in 39 states and the District of Columbia.

Video Services

We offer a broad
variety of video services with access to hundreds of channels depending on the level of service selected. Our levels of service typically range from a limited basic service with access to between 20 and 40 channels of video programming to a
full digital service with access to over 300 channels. Our video services generally include programming provided by national and local broadcast networks and by national and regional cable networks, as well as governmental and public access
programming. Our digital video services generally include access to over 40 music channels, our On Demand service and an interactive, on-screen program guide. We also offer packages that include extensive amounts of foreign-language programming, and
we offer other specialty tiers of programming with sports, family and international themes. We tailor our video services offerings for each cable distribution system serving a particular geographic area according to applicable local and federal
regulatory requirements, programming preferences and demographics.

Our video customers may also subscribe to premium network
programming. Premium networks include cable networks such as HBO, Showtime, Starz and Cinemax, which generally offer, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and taped sporting events, concerts and other special features.

Our On Demand service provides our digital video customers with more than 30,000 standard-definition and high-definition programming
choices. A substantial portion of our On Demand content is available to our digital video customers at no additional charge. Digital video customers subscribing to a premium network have access to the premium network’s On Demand content
without additional fees. Our On Demand service includes fee-based selections that allow our video customers to order individual new release and library movies and special-event programs, such as professional boxing, mixed martial arts, wrestling and
concerts. We plan to continue increasing the number of On Demand choices available, including high-definition programming.

Our
high-definition television (“HDTV”) service provides high-definition set top boxes for improved high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format for customers. Our HDTV service includes a broad selection of
high-definition programming choices, including most major broadcast networks, leading national cable networks, premium networks and regional sports networks. In addition, our On Demand service provides HDTV video customers with a selection of up to
6,000 high-definition programming choices in select markets over the course of a month. Our digital video recorder (“DVR”) service allows digital





3Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




video customers to select, record and store programs on their set-top box and play them at whatever time is convenient. Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind
“live” television. We also offer select programming in 3D format on the channels we distribute and On Demand to our HDTV customers who have 3D capable TV sets.

Our video customers generally have the ability to view some of our On Demand content, browse program listings, and schedule and manage DVR recordings online and through our mobile applications for smartphones and
tablets. In 2012, we began streaming certain live television programming online and through our mobile applications in some of our markets.

High-Speed Internet Services

We offer a variety of high-speed Internet services with
downstream speeds of up to 105 Mbps. These services also include our Internet portal, XFINITY.com, which provides access to email, voice mail, an address book, online storage, and online security features. Our customers also have the ability to
access these services, including managing their e-mail accounts, through our mobile applications using smartphones and tablets.

Voice
Services

We offer voice service plans, using an interconnected Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) technology, that provide
either usage-based or unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling, include the option for a variety of international calling plans, voice mail, caller ID, call waiting and other features, including the ability to access and manage voice mail
and other account information online and through our mobile applications using smartphones and tablets.

Business Services

We offer our cable services to small (up to 20 employees) and medium-sized (up to 500 employees) businesses (“business services”). In
addition to the features provided to our residential customers, our services for business customers also include a website hosting service, an interactive tool that allows customers to share, coordinate and store documents online, a business
directory listing and the option to add up to 24 phone lines.

Medium-sized business customers are also offered our Metro-Ethernet data
service capable of connecting multiple locations at speeds of up to 10 Gbps. We also provide cell backhaul services to cellular network operators.

Advertising

As part of our programming
license agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time that we may sell to local, regional and national advertisers. In most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force. In some
cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising time allocated to us. We also coordinate the advertising sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets, and in
some markets we operate advertising interconnects. In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising on XFINITY.com and our On Demand service. We have also begun to deploy and are further developing technology to deliver interactive and
targeted advertising.

Other Revenue Sources

We receive revenue related to franchise and other regulatory fees, our digital media center, commissions from electronic retailing networks, and fees from other services. Our franchise and regulatory fees represent
the fees required to be paid to federal, state and local authorities that we pass through to our customers. Under the terms of our franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay to the franchising authority an amount based on our gross video
revenue.





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K4




Sources of Supply

To offer our video services, we license a substantial portion of our programming from cable and broadcast networks. We attempt to secure long-term programming licenses with volume discounts or marketing support and
incentives from cable networks. We also license individual programs or packages of programs from programming suppliers for our On Demand service. We seek to include in our licensing arrangements the rights to offer such programming to our
subscribers on multiple delivery platforms that may be viewed in multiple locations, such as online and through our mobile applications using smartphones and tablets.

Our video programming expenses generally depend on the number of our video customers, the number of channels and amount of On Demand programs we provide and the number of delivery platforms on which they are
distributed, and the programming license fees we are charged. We expect our video programming expenses to continue to be our largest single expense item and to continue to increase in the future.

We purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of set-top boxes, network equipment and services that we use in providing our
cable services.

For our high-speed Internet service, we license software products (such as email and security software) and content
(such as news feeds) for our portal, XFINITY.com, from a variety of suppliers under contracts in which we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share
basis in the case of content licenses.

To offer our voice services, we license software products (such as voice mail) from a variety of
suppliers under multiyear contracts. The fees we pay are generally based on the consumption of the related services.

We use two vendors to provide
customer billing for our cable services.

Customer and Technical Services

Our customer service call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability, telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs
various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to our cable distribution system.

Technology

Our cable distribution system employs a fiber optic cable-based network architecture used in conjunction with coaxial cable that we believe is
sufficiently flexible and scalable to support our future technology requirements. This network provides the two-way transmissions that are essential to providing interactive video services, such as On Demand, and high-speed Internet and voice
services. We are also leveraging our IP technology and the cloud computing services within our network to develop and deliver innovative services to our customers efficiently and in an accelerated fashion.

We continue to develop and launch new technology initiatives, such as:



•enabling a variety of consumer electronic devices, including computers, tablets, smartphones and Internet-connected televisions, to search, control and
display the programming and other content we provide to our video customers



•expanding the use of our network to launch new services, including providing service to medium-sized businesses and offering home security services



•developing and launching a next generation media and content delivery platform that leverages IP technology and our own cloud network servers to deliver video
and advanced search capabilities to our customers on multiple devices





5Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




•developing wireless options to extend our services outside the home to provide mobility through the use of mobile applications, the deployment of Wi-Fi in
portions of our service areas and the marketing of Verizon Wireless services that we plan to integrate with the offerings of our services



•deploying multiple tools to recapture bandwidth and optimize our network, including digitizing analog signals, increasing the number of nodes in service
areas, and using advanced video encoding and digital compression technologies



•developing technology and software to better identify problems with our cable services and to allow for better integration of our software with third-party
software

Sales and Marketing

We offer our services directly to residential and business customers through our call centers, door-to-door selling, direct mail advertising, television advertising, Internet advertising, local media advertising,
telemarketing and retail outlets. We market our cable services both individually and as bundled services. In addition, in 2012, Verizon Wireless has become an agent to sell our cable services in certain of our markets.

NBCUniversal Segments



On January 28, 2011, we closed our transaction with GE to form a new company named NBCUniversal, LLC (“NBCUniversal Holdings”). We
now control and own 51% of NBCUniversal Holdings, and GE owns the remaining 49%. As part of the NBCUniversal transaction, GE contributed the businesses of NBCUniversal, which is now a wholly owned subsidiary of NBCUniversal Holdings. The
NBCUniversal businesses that were contributed included its national cable networks, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks and its NBC and Telemundo owned local television stations, Universal Pictures, the Universal Studios Hollywood theme park,
and other related assets. We contributed our national cable networks (previously in our Programming segment), our regional sports and news networks (previously in our Cable segment), certain of our Internet businesses, including DailyCandy and
Fandango (previously in Corporate and Other), and other related assets (the “Comcast Content Business”), all of which are now part of our Cable Networks segment.

For additional information on the transaction, refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information on the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) order and the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) consent decree related to the transaction, see “Legislation and
Regulation” below.





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K6




Cable Networks

Our Cable Networks segment operates a diversified portfolio of 15 national cable networks, 13 regional sports and news networks, more than 60 international channels, and digital media properties consisting
primarily of brand-aligned and other websites, including DailyCandy, Fandango and iVillage. The table below presents a summary of our national cable networks.



Cable NetworkApproximate U.S.Subscribers
atDecember 31, 2011(in
millions)(a)Description of ProgrammingUSA Network99General entertainmentSyfy98Imagination-based entertainmentE!98Entertainment and pop cultureCNBC97Business and financial newsMSNBC9524 hour newsBravo95Entertainment, culture and artsGolf Channel85Golf competition and golf entertainmentOxygen78Women’s interestsNBC Sports Network (formerly VERSUS)76SportsStyle76LifestyleG461Gamer lifestyleChiller42Horror and suspenseCNBC World40Global financial newsCloo (formerly Sleuth)39Crime, mystery and suspenseUniversal HD25HD, general entertainment programming



(a)Subscriber data is based on The Nielsen Company’s January 2012 report, which covers the period from December 14, 2011 through December 20, 2011,
except for Universal HD, which was derived from information provided by multichannel video providers.

Our 13 regional
sports and news networks are Comcast SportsNet Philadelphia, Comcast SportsNet Mid-Atlantic (Baltimore/Washington), Cable Sports Southeast, Comcast SportsNet Chicago, MountainWest Sports Network, Comcast SportsNet California (Sacramento), Comcast
SportsNet New England (Boston), Comcast SportsNet Northwest (Portland), Comcast Sports Southwest (Houston), Comcast SportsNet Bay Area (San Francisco), New England Cable News (Boston), Comcast Network Philadelphia and Comcast Network Mid-Atlantic
(Baltimore/Washington).

We market and distribute our cable network programming in the United States and internationally to multichannel
video providers, as well as to Internet and wireless distributors. These distributors may exhibit our content on television, online and through mobile applications, and in a range of consumer experiences that may include video on demand, electronic
sell-through and pay-per-view.

Our cable networks develop their own programs or acquire programming rights from third parties. Our
Cable Networks segment includes our production studio, Universal Cable Production, that identifies, develops and produces original content for cable television and other distribution platforms both for our cable networks and for those of third
parties. We license this content to all forms of television, including broadcast and cable networks, and through home video and various digital media platforms, both in the United States and internationally.

Our Cable Networks segment primarily generates revenue from the distribution of our cable network programming and from the sale of advertising.
Distribution revenue is generated from distribution agreements with multichannel video providers. Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising time on our cable





7Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




networks and related digital media properties. We also generate content licensing and other revenue from the licensing and sale of our owned programming in the United States and internationally,
including revenue from the sale of our owned programming on standard-definition digital video discs and Blu-ray discs (together, “DVDs”) and through digital media platforms, and from the licensing of our brands for consumer products.

Broadcast Television

Our
Broadcast Television segment operates the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, which together serve audiences and advertisers in all 50 states, including the largest U.S. metropolitan areas. Our Broadcast Television segment also includes our owned
and operated NBC and Telemundo local television stations, our broadcast television production operations and our related digital media properties.

Our Broadcast Television segment primarily generates revenue from the sale of advertising and from content licensing. Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising time on our broadcast networks,
owned local television stations and related digital media properties. Content licensing revenue is generated from the licensing of our owned programming in the United States and internationally. We also generate revenue from the sale of our owned
programming on DVDs, through digital media platforms and from the licensing of our brands and characters for consumer products. In addition, our owned local television stations are beginning to receive retransmission fees from multichannel video
providers in exchange for consent that allows carriage of the stations’ signal. We also receive a portion of the retransmission fees received by our NBC affiliated stations. We expect these fees to increase in the future as we, and our
affiliated stations, renegotiate distribution agreements with multichannel video providers.

NBC Network

The NBC network distributes more than 5,000 hours of entertainment, news and sports programming annually, and its programs reach viewers in
virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States, including our 10 NBC owned local television stations. The NBC network develops a broad range of content through its entertainment, news and
sports divisions and also airs a variety of special-events programming. The NBC network’s television library consists of rights of varying nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including current and classic titles,
unscripted programming, sports, news, long-form and short-form programming and locally produced programming from around the world. In addition, the NBC network operates various websites that extend its brands and content online.

The NBC network produces its own programs or acquires the rights to programming from third parties. NBCUniversal has various contractual
commitments for the licensing of rights to multiyear programming, including sports programming. Our most significant sports programming commitments include an agreement with the NFL to produce and broadcast a specified number of regular season and
playoff games, including NBC’sSunday Night Footballthrough the 2022-23 season and the 2012, 2015, 2018 and 2021 Super Bowls. In addition, the NBC network has broadcast the Summer Olympic Games since 1988 and the Winter Olympic Games
since 2002, and owns the U.S. broadcast rights for the 2012 London Olympic Games, 2014 Sochi Olympic Games, 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games, 2018 Pyeongchang Olympic Games and 2020 Summer Olympic Games. We also have broadcast rights to a specified
number of NHL games through the 2020-21 season and certain PGA TOUR golf events through 2021. NBCUniversal’s sports programming agreements also include rights to distribute content on our national cable sports networks, NBC Sports Network and
Golf Channel, our regional sports networks where applicable, and on various digital media platforms.

Our broadcast television
production operations create and produce original content, including scripted and unscripted series, talk shows, and digital media projects that are sold to broadcast networks, cable networks,





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K8




local television stations and other media platforms owned by us and third parties, as well as through home video, both in the United States and internationally. We also produce
“first-run” syndicated shows, which are programs for initial exhibition on local television stations in the United States, on a market-by-market basis, without prior exhibition on a network. We currently distribute some of our programs
after their exhibition on a broadcast network, as well as older television programs from our library, to local television stations and cable networks in the off-network syndication market in the United States.

NBC Local Television Stations

We own and operate 10 NBC affiliated local television stations that collectively reached approximately 31 million U.S. television households,
which represents approximately 27% of all U.S. television households, as of December 31, 2011. In addition to airing NBC’s national programming, our stations produce news, sports, public affairs and other programming that addresses local
needs and acquire syndicated programming from other sources. The table below presents a summary of the NBC affiliated local television stations that we own and operate.



DMA Served(a)StationGeneral Market 
Rank(b)Percentage of U.S.Television Households(d)New York, NYWNBC17%Los Angeles, CAKNBC25%Chicago, ILWMAQ33%Philadelphia, PAWCAU43%Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXAS(c)52%San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKNTV62%Washington, D.C.WRC82%Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FLWTVJ161%San Diego, CAKNSD(c)281%Hartford, CTWVIT301%



(a)Designated market area (“DMA”) served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local
advertising time.



(b)General market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among the 210 generally recognized DMAs in the United States based on Nielsen estimates for the
2011-12 season.



(c)Owned through a joint venture with LIN TV Corp.



(d)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2011-12 season. The percentage of U.S. television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach
under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits. See “Legislation and Regulation – Broadcast Television – Ownership Limits – National Television Ownership.”

Telemundo

Telemundo is a leading
Hispanic media company that produces, acquires and distributes Spanish-language content in the United States and internationally. Telemundo’s operations include the Telemundo network; its owned local television stations; mun2, a cable network
featuring diverse, youth-oriented entertainment for bicultural Latinos; and Telemundo-related digital media properties consisting primarily of brand-aligned websites, such as Telemundo.com.

The Telemundo network is a leading Spanish-language broadcast network featuring original telenovelas, theatrical films, news, specials and sporting
events. We develop our own programming primarily through Telemundo’s production studio and also acquire the rights to content from third parties. In 2011, we entered into an agreement with FIFA to license the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast
rights to FIFA World Cup soccer from 2015 through 2022 and also acquired the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights for the NFL games that the NBC network will broadcast as part of our agreement with the NFL that runs through the 2022-23 season.





9Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Telemundo Local Television Stations

As of December 31, 2011, Telemundo owned 15 local television stations, including 14 local television stations affiliated with the Telemundo
network and an independent television station in Puerto Rico. The table below presents a summary of these television stations, which collectively reached approximately 55% of U.S. Hispanic television households as of December 31, 2011.



DMA Served(a)StationHispanic Market 
Rank(b)Percentage of U.S.Hispanic TelevisionHouseholds(c)Los Angeles, CAKVEA113%New York, NYWNJU210%Miami, FLWSCV35%Houston, TXKTMD44%Chicago, ILWSNS-TV54%Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXTX64%San Antonio, TXKVDA(d)73%San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKSTS83%Phoenix, AZKTAZ92%Fresno, CAKNSO(d)142%Denver, COKDEN162%Las Vegas, NVKBLR231%Boston, MAWNEU(d)241%Tucson, AZKHRR251%Puerto RicoWKAQ——



(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.



(b)Hispanic market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among approximately 14 million U.S. Hispanic households as of December 31, 2011.



(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2011-12 season. The percentage of U.S. Hispanic television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience
reach under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits. See “Legislation and Regulation – Broadcast Television – Ownership Limits – National Television Ownership.”



(d)Operated by a third party that provides certain non-network programming and operations services under a time brokerage agreement.

Filmed Entertainment

Our Filmed Entertainment segment consists of the operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed entertainment worldwide in various media formats for theatrical, home
entertainment, television and increasingly through other distribution platforms. We also develop, produce and license stage plays. Our content consists of theatrical films, direct-to-video titles and our film library, which is comprised of
approximately 4,500 titles in a variety of genres.

We produce films both on our own and jointly with other studios or production
companies, as well as with other entities. Our films are produced under both the Universal Pictures and Focus Features names. Our films are marketed and distributed worldwide primarily through our own marketing and distribution companies. We also
acquire distribution rights to films produced by others, which may be limited to particular geographic regions, specific forms of media or certain periods of time.

After their theatrical release, we distribute our films globally for home entertainment use on DVD and in various digital formats, which includes the licensing of our films to third parties for electronic
sell-through over the Internet.

We also license our films, including selections from our film library, to all forms of television,
including broadcast, cable and premium networks, and pay-per-view and video on demand services. These arrangements for





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K10




theatrical films generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions during a fixed term and include exclusive exhibition rights for the licensing of films for specified periods of time.

In response to the high cost of producing films, we have entered, and may continue to enter, into film cofinancing arrangements with
third parties, including both studio and nonstudio entities, to jointly finance or distribute certain of our film productions. These arrangements can take various forms, but in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an
investor. Investors generally assume the full risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film.

Our Filmed
Entertainment segment primarily generates revenue from the worldwide theatrical release of our owned and acquired films, content licensing and home entertainment. Content licensing revenue is generated from the licensing of our owned and acquired
films to broadcast, cable and premium networks, as well as other distribution platforms. Home entertainment revenue is generated from the licensing and sale of our owned and acquired films through DVD sales to retail stores, rental kiosks and
subscription by mail, as well as through digital media platforms, including electronic sell through. We also generate revenue from distributing third parties’ filmed entertainment, producing stage plays, publishing music and licensing consumer
products.

Theme Parks

Our Theme
Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood. Universal Orlando includes two theme parks, Universal Studios Florida and Universal’s Islands of Adventure, as well as CityWalk, a dining, retail and
entertainment complex. Universal Orlando also features three on-site themed hotels in which we own a noncontrolling interest. Our Universal theme park in Hollywood consists primarily of Universal Studios Hollywood. In addition, we license the right
to use the Universal Studios brand name, certain characters and other intellectual property to third parties that own and operate the Universal Studios Japan theme park in Osaka, Japan and the Universal Studios Singapore theme park on Sentosa
Island, Singapore. We also own a water park, Wet ‘n Wild, located in Orlando.

Our Theme Parks segment licenses the right to use a
substantial amount of intellectual property from third parties for its themed elements in rides, attractions, retail outlets and merchandising.

Our Theme Parks segment generates revenue primarily from theme park attendance and per capita spending, as well as from management, licensing and other fees. Per capita spending includes ticket price and in-park
spending on food, beverage and merchandise.

Competition



Cable Communications

Competition for the cable services we offer primarily includes direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) providers and phone companies. These
competitors offer features, pricing and packaging for cable services that are comparable to the pricing and services we offer. Recently, new video services and devices have emerged that offer Internet video streaming and downloading of movies,
television shows and other video programming, some of which charge a nominal or no fee for access. The success of these new services could negatively impact the demand for our video services, including our DVR, premium networks and On Demand
services. Moreover, newer services in wireless technology, such as 3G and 4G wireless broadband services, may compete with our cable and high-speed Internet services, and our voice services are facing increased competition as a result of wireless
and Internet-based phone services. In addition, technological advances and product innovations are increasing at a rapid pace and, as a result, the number of choices available to our customers is likely to increase, thereby further intensifying
competition.





11Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Video Services

We compete with a number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:



•DBS providers that transmit satellite signals containing video programming and other information to receiving dishes located on the customer’s premises



•certain phone companies that have built and continue to build fiber-optic-based networks that provide cable services similar to ours, which now overlap a
substantial portion of our service areas



•other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable
operators



•satellite master antenna television (“SMATV”) systems that generally serve MDUs, office complexes and residential developments



•online services and devices that offer Internet video streaming and distribution of movies, television shows and other video programming

In recent years, Congress has enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory
policies intended to provide a favorable operating environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to our cable services. The FCC adopted rules favoring new investment by certain phone companies in networks capable of
distributing video programming and rules allocating and auctioning spectrum for new wireless services that may compete with our video service offerings. See “Legislation and Regulation” below for additional information.

Direct Broadcast Satellite Providers

According to recent government and industry reports, conventional medium-power and high-power satellites provide video programming to 34 million subscribers in the United States. DBS providers with high-power
satellites typically offer video services substantially similar to our video services. Two companies, DIRECTV and DISH Network, provide service to substantially all of these DBS subscribers. DBS providers also have marketing arrangements with
certain phone companies in which the DBS provider’s video services are sold together with the phone company’s high-speed Internet and phone services.

Phone Companies

Certain phone companies, in particular AT&T, Verizon and
CenturyLink, have built and are continuing to build wireline fiber-optic-based networks, in some cases using Internet protocol technology, that provide video and high-speed Internet services in substantial portions of our service areas. These and
other phone companies also may market DBS video services in certain areas where they provide only high-speed Internet and phone service.

Other Wireline Providers

Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises, and it permits franchising authorities
to operate cable systems. In addition to phone companies, various other companies, including those that traditionally have not provided cable services and have substantial financial resources (such as public utilities, including those that own some
of the poles to which our cables are attached), have obtained cable franchises and provide competing cable services. These and other cable systems offer cable services in some areas where we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based
competitors may emerge in other franchise areas that we serve.





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K12




Satellite Master Antenna Television Systems

Our cable services also compete for customers with SMATV systems. SMATV system operators typically are not subject to regulation in the same manner
as local, franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer their subscribers both improved reception of local television broadcast stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems. In addition, some SMATV system operators
offer packages of video, Internet and phone services to their residential and business subscribers.

Other Video Competitors

Our cable services also may compete for customers with other companies, such as:



•online services and devices that offer Internet video streaming and downloading of movies, television shows and other programming, which in some cases may be
viewed on traditional televisions or, more recently, on Internet-connected televisions



•local television broadcast stations that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming



•wireless and other emerging mobile technologies that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming online and through mobile applications
using smartphones and tablets



•video rental services and home video products

Some of these competitors offer their services for free or charge a nominal fee for
access to their content.

High-Speed Internet Services

We compete with a number of companies offering Internet services, many of which have substantial resources, including:



•wireline phone companies



•Internet service providers



•wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service



•power companies

Digital subscriber line (“DSL”) technology allows Internet access to be
provided to customers over phone lines at data transmission speeds substantially greater than those of dial-up modems. Phone companies and certain other companies offer DSL service, and several of these companies have increased transmission speeds,
lowered prices or created bundled service packages. In addition, some phone companies, such as AT&T, Verizon and CenturyLink, have built and are continuing to build fiber-optic-based networks that allow them to provide data transmission speeds
that exceed those that can be provided with DSL technology and are now offering these higher speed services in many of our service areas. The FCC has reduced the obligations of phone companies to offer their broadband facilities on a wholesale or
retail basis to competitors, and it has freed their DSL services of common carrier regulation.

Various wireless companies are offering
Internet services using a variety of types of networks, including 3G and 4G wireless high-speed Internet networks (which employ LTE, WiMax and other technology standards) and Wi-Fi networks. These networks work with devices such as wireless data
cards and wireless embedded devices, such as smartphones, laptops, tablets, and mobile wireless routers that connect to such embedded devices. Some of these services are similar to ours. In addition, a growing number of commercial venues, such as
retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and other Internet access networks.





13Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Voice Services

Our voice services compete against wireline phone companies, including competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”), wireless phone service providers and other VoIP service providers, such as Skype.
Certain phone companies, such as AT&T and Verizon, have substantial capital and other resources, longstanding customer relationships, and extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and
significant financial resources.

Business Services

Our business services primarily compete with a variety of phone companies, including CLECs. These companies either operate their own network infrastructure or rely on reselling another carrier’s network. Phone
companies and CLECs generally lack business cable television offerings. In those situations, we often compete with satellite operators.

Advertising

We compete for the
sale of advertising with a wide variety of media, including local television broadcast stations, national television broadcast networks, national and regional cable networks, online and mobile outlets, radio stations and print media.

NBCUniversal Segments

Cable Networks and
Broadcast Television

Our cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local television stations compete for viewers’ attention and
audience share with all forms of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast and cable networks, local television broadcast stations, premium networks, home entertainment, pay-per-view and video on demand services, online activities,
including Internet streaming and downloading and websites providing social networking and user-generated content, and other forms of entertainment, news and information. In addition, our cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local television
stations compete for advertising revenue with other national and local media, including other television networks, television stations, online and mobile outlets, radio stations and print media.

Our cable networks, broadcast networks and owned local television stations compete for the acquisition of programming and for on-air and creative
talent with other cable and broadcast networks and local television stations. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming, where the cost for such programming is significant.

Our cable networks compete with other cable networks for distribution by multichannel video providers. Our broadcast networks compete with the
other broadcast networks in markets across the United States to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience.

In addition, our cable and broadcast television production operations compete with other production companies and creators of content for the
acquisition of story properties, creative, performing and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and consumer interest in their products.

Filmed Entertainment

Our filmed entertainment business competes for audiences for its
films and other entertainment content with other major studios, and, to a lesser extent, with independent film producers, as well as with alternative forms of entertainment. Our competitive position primarily depends on the number of films we
produce, their distribution and marketing success, and consumer response. Our filmed entertainment business also competes to obtain creative, performing and technical talent, including writers, actors, directors and producers, and





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K14




scripts for films. Our filmed entertainment business also competes with the other major studios and other producers of entertainment content for distribution of their content through various
exhibition and distribution outlets and on digital media platforms.

Theme Parks

Our theme parks business competes with other multi-park entertainment companies. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism
and recreational activities. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our theme parks, we have invested and continue to invest in existing and new theme park attractions and infrastructure. The investment required to introduce new attractions in
our theme parks can be significant.

Seasonality and Cyclicality



Each of our businesses is subject to
seasonal and cyclical variations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Segment Operating Results – Seasonality and Cyclicality” for additional information.

Legislation and Regulation

Cable Services



Video Services

Pricing and Packaging

The
Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the prices that cable operators may charge for basic video service, equipment and installation. These rules do not apply to cable systems that the FCC determines are subject to effective competition, or
where franchising authorities have chosen not to regulate rates. As a result, approximately 80% of our video customers are not subject to rate regulation. From time to time, Congress and the FCC consider imposing new pricing or packaging
regulations, including proposals that would require cable operators to offer programming networks on an a la carte or themed-tier basis instead of, or in addition to, our current packaged offerings. As discussed under “Legal Proceedings,”
we and others are currently involved in litigation that could force us and other multichannel video providers to offer programming networks on an a la carte basis. Additionally, uniform pricing requirements under the Communications Act





15Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




may affect our ability to respond to increased competition through offers that aim to retain existing customers or regain those we have lost.

Program Carriage/License Agreements

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Cable operators are currently required to carry, without compensation, the programming transmitted by most local commercial and noncommercial
television stations. Alternatively, local television stations may choose to negotiate with a cable operator for retransmission consent, under which the station gives up its must-carry right and instead seeks to negotiate a carriage agreement with
the cable operator. Such an agreement may involve payment of compensation to the station. We have recently begun paying certain local television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of broadcast programming to our
video services customers and expect to continue to be subject to increasing demands for direct monetary compensation and other concessions from local television stations.

Now that broadcasters have completed their transition from analog to digital transmission, cable operators generally are required to carry the primary digital programming stream of local broadcast stations, as well
as an analog version of the primary digital programming stream on systems that are not all digital. These requirements are scheduled to last until June 12, 2012, subject to possible extensions. For information on must-carry and retransmission
consent issues relating to our broadcast television business, see “Broadcast Television” below and refer to the “Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” discussion within that section.

Leased Access

The Communications
Act requires a cable system to make available up to 15% of its channel capacity for commercial leased access by third parties to provide programming that may compete with services offered directly by the cable operator. While we have not been
required to devote significant channel capacity to leased access to date, the FCC has adopted regulations that dramatically reduce the rates we can charge for leased access channels, although their implementation has been stayed by a federal court
pending the outcome of a challenge brought by us and other cable operators and also has been blocked by the Office of Management and Budget. If implemented, these regulations could adversely affect our business by significantly increasing the number
of cable system channels occupied by leased access users and by significantly increasing the administrative burdens and costs associated with complying with such regulations.





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K16




Cable Equipment

MDUs and Inside Wiring

FCC
regulations prohibit exclusive video service access agreements between cable operators and MDUs or other private residential real estate developments, as well as our enforcement of exclusivity provisions in any of our pre-existing access agreements.
FCC regulations also facilitate competitors’ access to the cable wiring inside such properties.

Pole Attachments

The Communications Act permits the FCC to regulate the rates that pole-owning utility companies (with the exception of municipal utilities and rural
cooperatives) charge cable systems for attachments to their poles. States are permitted to preempt FCC jurisdiction and regulate the terms of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so. Most of these states have
generally followed the FCC’s pole attachment rate standards. Utility companies initiated a proceeding in 2009 at the FCC seeking to apply the telecommunications services pole rate formula to all pole attachments over which cable operators
provide phone services using interconnected VoIP technology, which is the type of technology we use for our voice services. The pole attachment rates applicable to telecommunications services were significantly higher than the rates we currently
pay. In June 2011, the FCC adopted a pole rate formula that reduces the rates for telecommunications service pole attachments to levels that are at or near the rates for cable attachments, but utility companies are able to rebut certain presumptions
in the new formula, and it is expected that most will attempt to do so. A group of power utility companies has challenged that ruling in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.

Vertical Ownership Limit

The FCC is assessing whether to revise a limit on the number
of affiliated programming channels that a cable operator may carry on a cable system. The FCC’s previous limit of 40% of the first 75 channels carried on a cable system was struck down by a federal appellate court in 2001, although the FCC
continues to enforce it. The FCC previously clarified that, under the 40% limit, cable systems with 75 or more channels must carry at least 45 unaffiliated channels. Our cable systems routinely carry more than 45 unaffiliated channels, and we
currently comply with the 40% limit. Compliance could become more difficult depending on what regulations, if any, the FCC adopts.





17Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Franchising

Cable operators generally operate their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or state franchising authorities. While the terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction
to jurisdiction, franchises typically last for a fixed term, obligate the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet service quality, customer service and other requirements, and are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material
provisions. The Communications Act permits franchising authorities to establish reasonable requirements for public, educational and governmental access (“PEG”) programming, and some of our franchises require substantial channel capacity
and financial support for this programming. The NBCUniversal Order contains various PEG-related conditions, including a requirement that we do not migrate PEG channels to digital delivery on our cable system until the system has converted to
all-digital distribution or until the government entity that is responsible for the system’s PEG operations expressly agrees. The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the franchising process, including, among other things,
renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal. We believe that our franchise renewal prospects generally are favorable.

FCC regulations establish franchising processes and obligations for new entrants that are different from those applicable to existing providers. For example, these regulations limit the range of financial,
construction and other commitments that franchising authorities can request of new entrants and preempt certain local “level playing field” franchising requirements. In addition, approximately half of the states in which we operate have
enacted legislation to provide statewide franchising or to simplify local franchising requirements for new entrants. Some of these statutes also allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not
requiring that the new entrant provide service to all parts of the franchise area or permitting the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve. Certain of these statutes allow incumbent cable operators to opt into the new state
franchise where a competing state franchise has been issued for the incumbent cable operator’s franchise area. However, even in those states, the incumbent cable operators often are required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more
burdensome than the new entrant’s state franchise.

Copyright Regulation

High-Speed Internet Services

We provide high-speed Internet services over our cable distribution system. In 2002, the FCC ruled that high-speed Internet services
such as ours are interstate information services that are not subject to regulation as a





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K18




telecommunications service under federal law or to state or local utility regulation. However, our high-speed Internet services are subject to a number of regulatory obligations, including
compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) requirement that high-speed Internet service providers implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting surveillance of persons
suspected of criminal activity.

The FCC has adopted so-called “open Internet” regulations applicable to broadband Internet
service providers (“ISPs”). The regulations require broadband ISPs such as us to disclose information regarding network management, performance and commercial terms of the service; bar broadband ISPs from blocking access to lawful content,
applications, services or non-harmful devices; and bar wireline broadband ISPs such as us from unreasonably discriminating in transmitting lawful network traffic. The no-blocking and non-discrimination requirements allow for reasonable network
management. The FCC has not prohibited speed tiers or usage-based pricing, but has specifically noted that so-called “paid prioritization” (i.e., charging content, application and service providers for prioritizing their traffic over our
last-mile facilities) or an ISP’s prioritizing its own content likely would violate these regulations. These regulations are being challenged in federal court by a number of parties. However, under the NBCUniversal Order and the NBCUniversal
Consent Decree, we are required to comply with the open Internet regulations regardless of whether they are invalidated in court or otherwise rescinded, and they apply to any set-top box we provide that enables a customer to receive broadband
Internet access service.

In addition, the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree include various conditions and commitments
requiring us to expand our broadband service areas, to continue to offer all of our high-speed Internet service speed tiers on a standalone basis at reasonable market-based prices, to offer a new standalone 6 megabits per second downstream service
at $49.95 per month for three years, to maintain a high-speed Internet service of at least 12 megabits per second downstream across most of our footprint, and to not discriminate in how we treat so-called “specialized services” (defined as
services we provide over the same last-mile facilities as our high-speed Internet service, but not including our high-speed Internet service, video services or voice services). Over the course of 2011, we have taken a number of steps to comply with
these conditions.

A federal program known as the Universal Service program generally requires telecommunications service providers to
collect and pay a fee based on revenue from their services into a fund used to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care
providers. In November 2011, the FCC issued an order that would substantially change the way that a majority of Universal Service funds are allocated. By focusing on broadband deployment, and moving away from supporting traditional telephone
service, the changes could assist some of our competitors in more effectively competing with our service offerings, while others could receive less funding. The actual impact is unknown because the funding cost allocation model has not yet been
finalized by the FCC.

In addition, in November 2011 the FCC initiated a further rulemaking on Internet protocol interconnection issues,
which may have an impact on Internet interconnection arrangements. We have a number of peering and transit arrangements with other network operators, and these arrangements historically have not been regulated by the FCC. We cannot predict what, if
any, proposals might be adopted or what effect they might have on our business. In addition, Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer privacy, consumer protection,
copyright protection, defamation liability, taxation, obscenity and unsolicited commercial e-mail. State and local governments also have adopted Internet-related regulations. Furthermore, Congress, the FCC and certain state and local governments are
considering proposals to impose customer service, quality of service, expanded copyright protection requirements, taxation, child safety, privacy and standard pricing regulations on high-speed
Inter-





19Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




net service providers. It is uncertain whether any of these proposals will be adopted. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws to the Internet could have a material adverse
effect on our high-speed Internet business.

Voice Services

We provide voice services by using interconnected VoIP technology. The FCC has adopted a number of regulations for providers of nontraditional voice services such as ours, including regulations relating to customer
proprietary network information, local number portability duties and benefits, disability access, E911, CALEA and contributions to the Universal Service Fund, but has not yet ruled on the appropriate classification of voice services using
interconnected VoIP technology. The regulatory environment for our voice services therefore remains uncertain at both the federal and the state levels. Until the FCC definitively classifies voice services using interconnected VoIP technology for
state and federal regulatory purposes, state regulatory commissions and legislatures may continue to investigate imposing regulatory requirements on our voice services. While more than 20 states have enacted legislation precluding regulation of
VoIP-based service, a few state public utility commissions are conducting proceedings that could lead to the imposition of state telephone regulations on our voice services. For example, state commissions in Vermont and New Hampshire have issued
orders finding that our voice service qualifies as a telecommunications service subject to state regulation, although we have challenged or intend to challenge both orders.

Other Cable Services Regulations

State and Local Taxes

Some states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on the cable services we offer, or imposing
adverse methodologies by which taxes or fees are computed. These include combined reporting or other changes to general business taxes, central assessments for property tax, and taxes and fees on video, high-speed Internet and voice services. We and
other cable industry members are challenging certain of these taxes through administrative and court proceedings. In addition, in some situations our DBS competitors and other competitors that deliver their services over a high-speed Internet
connection do not face similar state tax and fee burdens. Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to bar states from imposing taxes on DBS providers that are equivalent to the taxes or fees that we pay.





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K20




Cable Networks



Program Access

The Communications Act and FCC regulations generally prevent cable networks affiliated with cable operators, other than terrestrially-delivered
programming networks, from favoring affiliated cable operators over competing multichannel video providers, such as DBS providers and phone companies that offer multichannel video programming services, and limit the ability of these cable networks
to offer exclusive programming arrangements to affiliated cable operators. This restriction is scheduled to end on October 5, 2012, although the FCC will evaluate whether it should extend that date. In addition, FCC regulations allow
multichannel video providers to file program access complaints to try to show that their lack of access to a terrestrially-delivered programming network has hindered significantly their ability to deliver video programming to
subscribers. Regardless of whether the FCC decides to sunset the exclusivity prohibitions in 2012, we will be subject to program access obligations under the terms of the NBCUniversal Order.

The FCC launched a rulemaking in 2007 to consider whether companies that own multiple cable networks should be required to make each of their
networks available to multichannel video providers on a stand-alone or “unbundled” basis when negotiating distribution agreements, although it has not further acted on that rulemaking. We currently offer our cable networks on both a
bundled and, when requested, on a stand-alone basis. Increased regulatory requirements imposed on the manner in which we negotiate programming distribution agreements with multichannel video providers may adversely affect our cable networks
business.

Under the terms of the NBCUniversal Order, multichannel video providers can invoke commercial arbitration for program access
pursuant to conditions adopted in the NBCUniversal Order against our cable networks, including our regional sports and news networks. In addition, under the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our
cable, broadcast and film programming available to bona fide online video distributors under certain conditions, and they may invoke commercial arbitration pursuant to conditions adopted in the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree to
resolve disputes regarding the availability of, and the terms and conditions of access to, such programming. For more information on these conditions, see “Broadcast Television” below and refer to the “Must-Carry/Retransmission
Consent” discussion within that section.

Children’s Programming

The Children’s Television Act (“CTA”) and FCC regulations limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on
cable networks and broadcast networks during programming originally produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children under 13 years of age. The FCC is currently considering whether to prohibit interactive advertising during
children’s television programming. The NBCUniversal Order includes certain commitments and conditions related to children’s television and advertising directed at children, including commitments that we will not insert interactive
advertising into children’s television programming in any of the advertising spots we control, either as a multichannel video provider or as the programmer, and that we will provide at least $15 million worth of public service announcements on
childhood obesity, FDA nutritional guidelines, digital literacy, and parental controls per year until 2016.

Broadcast Television



Licensing

The Communications Act permits the operation of local broadcast television stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a
finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms.
Under the Communications Act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum term of eight years. Generally, the FCC renews broadcast





21Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




licenses upon finding that the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC
regulations; and there have been no violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC regulations, which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse.

Under the NBCUniversal Order, we have committed to expand local news and information programming on our owned local television stations and to
enter into cooperative arrangements with locally focused nonprofit news organizations in certain markets.

Renewal applications are
pending for a number of our broadcast television station licenses. The FCC may grant any license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted. A station’s authority to
operate is automatically extended while a renewal application is on file and under review. Three pending applications have been formally opposed by third parties and other applications are pending due to unresolved complaints of alleged indecency in
the stations’ programming. The Communications Act also requires prior FCC approval for any sale of a broadcast station license, whether through the assignment of the license and related assets from one company to another or the transfer of
control of the stock or other equity of a company holding an FCC license. Third parties may oppose such applications. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances. Although we have received such renewals
and approvals in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary renewals or that approvals in the future will contain acceptable FCC license conditions.

Ownership Limits

FCC regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have
“attributable interests” above specific levels in local television stations, as well as other specified mass media entities, such as limits on the cross–ownership of broadcast stations and newspapers in the same market. The FCC, by
law, must review the ownership regulations detailed below once every four years, and the most recent review was initiated in December 2011 (“2011 Media Ownership Notice”). In addition, there is pending litigation relating to regulations
adopted in a prior review. We cannot predict when the pending litigation or the FCC’s current review will be completed or whether or how any of these regulations will change.

Local Television Ownership

Under the FCC’s local television ownership rule, a
licensee may own up to two broadcast television stations in the same DMA, as long as at least one of the two stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K22




market based on audience share as of the date an application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the FCC and at least eight independently owned and operating full-power broadcast
television stations remain in the market following the acquisition. Further, without regard to the number of remaining independently owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of more than one television station within the same DMA so
long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap. The 2011 Media Ownership Notice proposes minor modifications to the local television ownership rule. It also raises questions regarding whether local news-sharing agreements
and shared services agreements should count toward the FCC’s ownership limitations.

National Television Ownership

The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the number of television stations one entity may own or control nationally. Under the rule, no
entity may have an attributable interest in broadcast television stations that reach, in the aggregate, more than 39% of all U.S. television households. Our owned local television station reach does not exceed this limit.

Foreign Ownership

The
Communications Act generally limits foreign ownership in a broadcast station to 20% direct ownership and 25% indirect ownership (i.e., through one or more subsidiaries), although the limit on indirect ownership can be waived if the FCC finds it to
be in the public interest. These limits have been held to apply to both voting control and equity, as well as to ownership by any form of entity, including corporations, partnerships and limited liability companies.

Dual Network Rule

The dual network
rule prohibits any of the four major television broadcast networks, ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC, from being under common ownership or control with another of the four.

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Every 3 years, each commercial television station must elect
for each cable system in its DMA either must-carry or retransmission consent. Federal law and FCC regulations also establish a must-carry/retransmission consent election regime for carriage of commercial television stations by satellite providers.
Through the period ending December 31, 2011, all of the NBC network owned local television stations elected retransmission consent and the Telemundo network owned local television stations elected must-carry or retransmission consent depending
on circumstances within their respective DMAs. For the period beginning on January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2014, all of the NBC network and Telemundo network owned local television stations elected retransmission consent.

In enacting STELA in 2010, Congress modified certain aspects of the compulsory copyright licenses under which satellite providers and
cable operators retransmit broadcast stations. STELA expressly extended to January 1, 2015 an existing prohibition against commercial television stations entering into exclusive retransmission consent agreements with multichannel video
providers and also extended a requirement that commercial television stations and multichannel video providers negotiate retransmission consent agreements in good faith. Several other multichannel video providers and third parties filed a petition
asking the FCC to initiate a rulemaking to consider changes to the current retransmission consent regulations and also asked Congress to review the issue. The FCC launched a rulemaking in 2011 that, among other things, seeks comment on proposals to
modify the good faith negotiating standard and to eliminate regulations providing local television stations with exclusivity protections in their markets for network and syndicated programming. Legislation has been introduced that would eliminate
both must-carry and retransmission consent as well as more narrow legislation that would establish an arbitration mechanism to resolve impasses in retransmission consent negotiations. We cannot predict what new laws or regulations, if any, may be
adopted or how any





23Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




such laws or regulations would affect our businesses. In addition to potential remedies under the general retransmission consent regime, multichannel video providers may invoke commercial
arbitration under rules established in the NBCUniversal Order to resolve any disputes regarding carriage of any of our owned and operated television stations.

Internet Distribution

Under the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are
required to make certain of our cable, broadcast and film programming available to bona fide online video distributors under certain conditions, and they may invoke commercial arbitration under conditions adopted in the NBCUniversal Order and
NBCUniversal Consent Decree to resolve disputes regarding the availability, and the terms and conditions of access to, such programming. In addition, we are required to continue distributing programming via nbc.com that is generally equivalent to
the programming that we distributed via nbc.com as of January 1, 2011, on generally equivalent terms and conditions, so long as at least one of the other major broadcast networks continues to distribute some programming in a similar fashion. If
the two other broadcast network owners of Hulu renew their agreements, we must either continue to provide content to Hulu on the terms in place as of January 2011 or enter into agreements on substantially the same terms as the broadcast network that
provides the most economically favorable terms to Hulu.

Broadcast Spectrum

The FCC’s National Broadband Plan recommends that, as part of an FCC effort to make more spectrum available for mobile wireless broadband, the
FCC reallocate up to 120 MHz of spectrum from the broadcast television bands. Among other things, it recommends updating television service area and distance separation regulations, repacking current television station channel assignments, as well
as sharing frequencies and the reallocation of 120 MHz of spectrum from the broadcast television bands for broadband use.

The plan also
urges Congress to authorize incentive auctions to allow incumbents like broadcast television licensees to turn in spectrum rights and share in auction proceeds and calls for authority to assess spectrum fees on commercial, full-power local
television stations. Bills have been introduced in Congress that would authorize the FCC to conduct such incentive auctions and to share the proceeds with the broadcast licensees who relinquish their spectrum for such auctions, but only to the
extent such relinquishment is voluntary on the part of the broadcast licensee. In November 2010, the FCC proposed to allow the sharing of television channels by multiple TV stations, sought input on improving reception in the VHF band and proposed
changes to allow fixed and mobile wireless broadband services in the broadcast television bands. The FCC has emphasized that it does not intend to decrease broadcasters’ carriage rights and that it believes each sharing station will be licensed
individually, with the rights and obligations that accompany that license. We cannot predict whether or how any such regulations or actions might affect our businesses.

Indecency

FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material on television stations at
any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating this prohibition because the vagueness of the relevant FCC definitions makes it difficult to apply. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances
imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent “utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy that had generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. The maximum penalty
for broadcasting indecent or profane programming is $325,000 per indecent or profane utterance.

Indecency regulation is the subject of
ongoing court review, regarding both the FCC’s “fleeting expletives” policy and the FCC’s definition of what constitutes indecent material. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the FCC’s indecency policy is
unconstitutional because it is “impermissibly vague,” although the ruling is now under review by the Supreme Court. From time to time, we have received and may receive in the





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K24




future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on our owned local television stations included indecent or profane material. In addition, some
policymakers support the extension of indecency regulations to cable networks. Increased content regulation, particularly if it is vague and difficult to apply, could have an adverse effect on our broadcast and cable networks businesses.

Sponsorship Identification

Federal
legislation and FCC regulations provide that whenever a broadcast station transmits any programming for which it has received money, service or other valuable consideration, it must provide an accurate on-air identification of the sponsor of the
programming. The FCC is examining whether “embedded advertising,” such as product placements and product integration, in broadcast programming should be subject to stricter disclosure requirements and whether the sponsorship identification
regulations should be extended to cable networks.

International Regulation

International regulation of television broadcasting varies widely according to jurisdiction and includes the regulation of programming and
advertising. For example, the European Union (“EU”) establishes minimum levels of regulation across all EU member states focused on content and advertising, which also extends to nonlinear television services, although EU countries are
free to impose stricter regulation in certain areas. The majority of our European channels are under United Kingdom jurisdiction and therefore subject to stricter regulation by its regulator.

Filmed Entertainment



Our filmed entertainment business is subject to the provisions of so-called “trade practice laws” in effect in 25 states and Puerto Rico
relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. These laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit
payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. Further, under various consent judgments, federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair competition laws, our motion picture company is subject to certain
restrictions on trade practices in the United States, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has called for stronger industry
safeguards applicable to the marketing of violent movies to children.

In countries outside the United States, there are a variety of
existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect our ability to distribute and license motion picture and television products, as well as consumer merchandise products, including film screen quotas, television quotas,
regulation of content, regulated contract terms, product safety and labeling requirements, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of U.S. products. The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to
products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements.

Theme Parks



Our theme parks are subject to various
regulations, including laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, privacy and data protection, consumer product safety and theme park operations, such as health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and liquor licenses.

Other Areas of Regulation



Intellectual Property

Copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and Internet/domain laws of the United States and other countries help protect our
intellectual property rights. In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution of counterfeit DVDs, peer-to-peer file sharing and other platforms presents





25Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




challenges for our cable networks, broadcast television and filmed entertainment businesses. The unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of copyrighted material over the Internet or
through other methods of distribution, such as through devices, software or websites that allow the reproduction, viewing, sharing and/or downloading of content by either ignoring or interfering with the content’s security features and
copyrighted status, interferes with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to exploit our content. The extent of copyright protection and the use of technological protections, such as encryption, are controversial. Modifications
to existing laws that weaken these protections could have an adverse effect on our ability to license and sell our programming.

While
many legal protections exist to combat piracy, laws in the United States and internationally continue to evolve, as do technologies used to evade these laws. We have actively engaged in the enforcement of our intellectual property rights and likely
will continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content. The repeal of laws intended to combat piracy and protect intellectual property or weakening of such laws or enforcement in the United States or internationally, or a failure of
existing laws to adapt to new technologies, could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, negatively impacting their value and further increasing the costs of enforcing our rights.

Copyright laws also require that we pay standard industry licensing fees for the public performance of music in the programs we distribute, such as
local advertising and local origination programming on our cable systems, as well as the content we create. The fees we pay to music performance rights organizations are typically renegotiated when we renew licenses with those organizations, and we
cannot predict with certainty what those fees will be in the future or if disputes will arise over them.

Privacy and Security Regulation

The Communications Act generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of cable customers’
personally identifiable information by cable operators. There are exceptions that permit such collection and disclosure for rendering service, conducting legitimate business activities related to the service, and responding to legal requests. The
Communications Act and FCC regulations also provide privacy protections for customer proprietary network information related to our voice services. Several states and numerous local jurisdictions have enacted privacy laws or franchise privacy
provisions that apply to cable services.

The FTC has begun to exercise greater authority over privacy protections generally, using its
existing authority over unfair and deceptive practices and other public proceedings to apply greater restrictions on the collection and use of personally identifiable and other information relating to consumers. In December 2010, the FTC staff
issued a draft recommendation that privacy regulations should address consumer concerns over the collection and use of personal and profiling information, even in the absence of demonstrated consumer harm. In a December 2010 report, the Commerce
Department also suggested an expansion of privacy protections, although with greater reliance on enforceable industry codes. Legislation has also been introduced in Congress that would regulate the use of personal and profiling information for
advertising. In addition, the FTC is reviewing its implementation of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (“COPPA”). COPPA imposes requirements on website operators and online services that are aimed at children under 13 years
of age or that collect personal information or knowingly post personal information from children under 13 years of age. The FTC has proposed certain changes to its COPPA regulations that would expand the scope of the regulations.

We are also subject to state and federal regulations and laws regarding information security. Most of these regulations and laws apply to customer
information that could be used to commit identity theft. Substantially all of the U.S. states and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach notification laws. These laws generally require that a business give notice to its customers
whose financial account information has been





Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K26




disclosed because of a security breach. In addition, the FTC is applying the “red flag rules,” which are designed to detect the warning signs of identity theft, in the Fair and Accurate
Credit Transactions Act of 2003 to both financial institutions and creditors; we have established a compliance program as required under these rules.

We are also subject to state and federal “do not call” laws regarding telemarketing and state and federal laws regarding unsolicited commercial e-mails. Additional and more restrictive requirements may be
imposed if and to the extent that state or local authorities establish their own privacy or security standards or if Congress enacts new privacy or security legislation.

Advertising Restrictions

Legislation has been introduced and reports from various government
agencies have been issued from time to time urging that restrictions be placed on advertisements for particular products or services, including prescription drugs and the marketing of food or violent entertainment to children. We are unable to
predict whether such reports will result in legislative proposals, whether legislative proposals may be adopted, or, if adopted, what impact they will have on our businesses.

Environmental Matters

Certain of our business operations are subject to environmental laws and
regulations and involve air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, disposal and cleanup of toxic and hazardous substances. Any failure to comply with environmental requirements could result in monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions,
third-party claims or other costs or liabilities. We have been responsible for the cleanup of environmental contamination at some of NBCUniversal’s current and former facilities and at off-site waste disposal locations, although our share of
the cost of such cleanups to date has not been material. Environmental requirements have become more stringent over time, and pending or proposed new regulations could impact our operations or costs. For example, climate change regulation, such as
proposed greenhouse gas emissions limits or cap and trade programs, could result in an increase in the cost of electricity, which is a significant component of our operational costs at some locations. We are unable to accurately predict how these
requirements might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our businesses.

Disabilities Access

Our businesses are subject to a number of requirements related to ensuring that our services are accessible to individuals with hearing and vision
impairments. Among other things, our voice services and email services must be accessible to persons with disabilities; we must provide additional narrations of key visual elements (referred to as “video description”) on certain of our
video services and programming; and we must include closed captioning on certain video programming delivered to our customers.

Other FCC Regulations

The FCC actively regulates other aspects of our businesses, including the mandatory blackout of syndicated, network and sports
programming; customer service standards; loudness of commercial advertisements; political advertising; Emergency Alert System requirements; equal employment opportunity; lottery programming; recordkeeping and public file access requirements;
telemarketing; technical standards relating to operation of the cable systems and television stations; and regulatory fees. We are unable to predict how these regulations might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our
businesses. In addition, while we believe that we are in substantial compliance with FCC regulations, we are occasionally subject to enforcement actions at the FCC, which can result in our having to pay fines to the agency or being subject to other
sanctions.





27Comcast 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Employees

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 126,000 employees, including part-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 85,000 were associated with our Cable Communications business and the
remainder were associated with our NBCUniversal and other businesses. We also use freelance and temporary employees in the normal course of our business.

Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

The
SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future
events and of our future financial performance, including as a result of the NBCUniversal transaction. In some cases, you can identify these so-called “forward-looking statements” by words such as “may,” “will,”
“should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words, and other comparable words. You should be aware that these statements are only our
predictions. In evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties listed in “Risk Factors” and in other reports we file with the SEC.

Additionally, we operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment. The environment is affected by government
regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and services; technological developments; and, particularly in view of new technologies, the ability to develop and protect intellectual
property rights. Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements or as a result of any of such factors, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We undertake no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

