Item 1: Business

We are a leading provider of video, high-speed Internet and phone services (“cable services”), offering a variety of entertainment, information and communications services to
residential and commercial customers. As of December 31, 2009, our cable systems served approximately 23.6 million video customers, 15.9 million high-speed Internet customers and 7.6 million phone customers and passed over
51.2 million homes and businesses in 39 states and the District of Columbia. We report the results of these operations as our Cable segment, which generates approximately 95% of our consolidated revenue. Our Cable segment also includes the
operations of our regional sports networks. Our Programming segment consists primarily of our consolidated national programming networks, E!, Golf Channel, VERSUS, G4 and Style. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001.
Through our predecessors, we have developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963.

Our other business interests include
Comcast Interactive Media and Comcast Spectacor. Comcast Interactive Media develops and operates our Internet businesses, including Comcast.net, Fancast, the Platform, Fandango, Plaxo and DailyCandy. Comcast Spectacor owns two professional sports
teams, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Philadelphia Flyers, and a large, multipurpose arena in Philadelphia, the Wachovia Center, and provides facilities management services, including food services, for sporting events, concerts and other events.
Comcast Interactive Media, Comcast Spectacor and all other consolidated businesses not included in our Cable or Programming segments are included in “Corporate and Other” activities.

For financial and other information about our reportable segments, refer to Item 8, Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available Information and Websites

Our phone number is (215) 286-1700, and our principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center, Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference
Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on the SEC’s
website at www.sec.gov and on our website at www.comcast.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into our SEC filings.



General Developments of Our Businesses

The following are the more significant developments in our businesses during 2009:



•an increase in consolidated revenue of 3.9% to approximately $35.8 billion and an increase in consolidated operating income of 7.2% to approximately $7.2
billion



•an increase in Cable segment revenue of 3.8% to approximately $33.9 billion and an increase in operating income before depreciation and amortization of 4.0%
to approximately $13.7 billion



•an increase in Programming segment revenue of 4.9% to approximately $1.5 billion and an increase in operating income before depreciation and amortization of
7.5% to approximately $389 million



•the addition of approximately 1.0 million high-speed Internet customers and approximately 1.1 million phone customers; a decrease of approximately
623,000 video customers



•a reduction in Cable segment capital expenditures of 9.2% to approximately $5.0 billion



•the continued investment in service enhancements, including the transition from analog to digital transmission of approximately 40 to 50 of the channels we
distribute (“our all digital conversion”), which allows us to recapture bandwidth and expand our video service offerings; the continued deployment of DOCSIS 3.0 wideband technology, which allows us to offer faster high-speed Internet
service; the offering of certain cable network programming to our customers online through Fancast XFINITY TV; and the initial deployment of 4G wireless high-speed Internet service in certain markets



•a decrease in our total debt outstanding of $3.4 billion or 10.4% to approximately $29.1 billion, which is primarily due to repayment of scheduled debt and
the repurchase of debt securities prior to their scheduled maturities



•the repurchase of approximately 49.8 million shares of our Class A and Class A Special common stock under our share repurchase authorization
for approximately $765 million



•we declared dividends of approximately $850 million in 2009 and paid approximately $761 million in 2009; in February 2009, our Board of Directors increased
the planned annual dividend by 8% to $0.27 per share; and in December 2009, it increased the planned annual dividend by 40% to $0.378 per share, with the first quarterly payment of $0.0945 per share occurring in January 2010





1Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K






•we entered into agreements with General Electric Company (“GE”) in December 2009 to form a new company of which we will own 51% and control, with
the remaining 49% owned by GE. Under the terms of the transaction, GE will contribute NBC Universal’s businesses, including its cable and broadcast networks, filmed entertainment, televised entertainment, theme parks and unconsolidated
investments. We will contribute our national programming networks, our regional sports networks, other programming networks and certain of our Internet businesses. The transaction is subject to various regulatory approvals and is expected to close
by the end of 2010. Refer to “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further details.

We operate our businesses in an intensely competitive environment. Competition for the cable services
we offer consists primarily of direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) operators and phone companies. In 2009, our competitors continued to add features and adopt aggressive pricing and packaging for services that are comparable to the services
we offer. In addition, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from residential customers whose spending patterns may be affected by prevailing economic conditions. Intensifying competition and the weak economy negatively affected our results of
operations in 2009 and may continue to impact our results of operations in the future.







Description of Our Businesses

Cable Segment



The table below summarizes certain customer
and penetration data for our cable operations as of December 31.



(in millions)20092008200720062005Homes passed(a)51.250.648.545.738.6VideoVideo customers(b)23.624.224.123.420.3Video penetration(c)46.0%47.8%49.6%51.3%52.7%Digital video customers(d)18.417.015.212.19.1Digital video penetration(c)78.2%70.3%63.1%51.9%44.8%High-speed InternetAvailable homes(e)50.850.348.145.238.2Internet customers15.914.913.211.08.1Penetration(c)31.4%29.7%27.5%24.4%21.1%PhoneAvailable homes(e)48.446.742.231.519.6Phone customers7.66.54.62.41.2Penetration(c)15.7%13.9%10.8%7.6%6.0%

Basis of Presentation: Information related to cable system acquisitions is included from the date acquired. Information related to cable systems sold or exchanged is excluded for all periods presented. All percentages are calculated based
on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.



(a)Homes and businesses are considered passed (“homes passed”) if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the
transmission lines. As described in Note (b) below, in the case of certain multiple dwelling units (“MDUs”), such as apartment buildings and condominium complexes, homes passed are counted on an adjusted basis. Homes passed is an
estimate based on the best available information.



(b)Generally, a dwelling or commercial unit with one or more television sets connected to our distribution system counts as one video customer. In the case of
some MDUs, we count homes passed and video customers on a Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) equivalent basis by dividing total revenue received from a contract with an MDU by the standard residential rate where the specific MDU is
located.



(c)Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes passed or available homes, as appropriate. The number of customers
includes our small and medium-sized business customers.



(d)Digital video customers are those who receive any level of video service via digital transmissions through any means, including customers who receive a
digital transmission as a result of our all digital conversion. A dwelling with one or more digital set-top boxes counts as one digital video customer. On average, as of December 31, 2009, each digital video customer had 2.0 digital set-top
boxes, including digital transport adapters (“DTAs”).



(e)Homes and businesses are considered available (“available homes”) if we can connect them to our distribution system without further upgrading the
transmission lines and if we offer the service in that area. Available homes for phone include digital and circuit-switched homes. See also Note (a) above.



Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K2






Cable Services

We offer a variety
of services over our cable systems, including video, high-speed Internet and phone services. We market our cable services individually and in packages. Substantially all of our customers are residential customers. We have traditionally offered our
video services to restaurants and hotels, and we are now also offering our cable services to small and medium-sized businesses (“commercial services”). Subscription rates and related charges vary according to the service selected and the
type of equipment the customer uses, and customers typically pay us on a monthly basis. Residential customers may generally discontinue service at any time, while commercial customers may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of
their respective contracts, which typically have one to three year terms.

We are focusing our technology initiatives on extending the
capacity and efficiency of our networks, increasing the capacity and functionality of advanced set-top boxes, developing and integrating cross-service features and functionality, and developing interactive Internet protocol-based services.

Video Services

Our
video service offerings range from a limited analog service to a full digital service, as well as advanced services, which consist of high-definition television (“HDTV”) and/or digital video recorders (“DVR”). We tailor our video
services for each cable system serving a particular geographic area according to applicable local and federal regulatory requirements, programming preferences and demographics.

Our analog video services range from a limited basic service with access to between 20 and 30 channels of programming to an expanded basic service with access to between 60 and 80
channels of programming. Our digital video services range from a digital starter service with access to between 40 and 50 channels to a full digital service with access to over 250 channels. Our video services generally include programming provided
by national and local broadcast networks, national and regional cable networks, as well as governmental and public access programming. Our digital video services generally include access to over 40 music channels, our On Demand service and an
interactive, on-screen program guide. We also offer some packages with extensive amounts of Spanish-language programming, as well as specialty tiers with sports, family or international themes.

Our video customers may also subscribe to premium channel programming. Premium channels include cable networks such as HBO, Showtime, Starz and
Cinemax, which generally offer, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and taped sporting events, concerts and other special features.

Our On Demand service provides our digital video customers the opportunity to choose from a selection of more than 17,000

standard-definition and high-definition programming choices over the course of a month; start the programs at whatever time is convenient; and pause, rewind and fast-forward the programs. The
majority of our On Demand content is available to our digital video customers at no additional charge. Digital video customers subscribing to a premium channel generally have access to the premium channel’s On Demand content without
additional fees. We also offer a fee-based On Demand service that provides our video customers the opportunity to order individual new release and library movies and special-event programs, such as professional boxing, professional wrestling and
concerts. We are continuing to expand the number of On Demand choices, including HDTV programming choices.

Our HDTV service provides
our video customers with improved, high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format. Our HDTV service offers our digital video customers a broad selection of high-definition programming choices, including most major
broadcast networks, leading national cable networks, premium channels and regional sports networks. In addition, our On Demand service provides over 2,600 HDTV programming choices over the course of a month. Our DVR service lets digital video
customers select, record and store programs and play them at whatever time is convenient. Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind “live” television. During 2009, we began to offer certain cable network programming
online to customers of both our video and high-speed Internet services through Fancast XFINITY TV.

High-Speed Internet Services

We offer high-speed Internet services with Internet access at downstream speeds of up to 50 Mbps, depending on the service selected and
subject to geographic market availability. These services also include our interactive portal, Comcast.net, which provides multiple e-mail addresses and online storage, as well as a variety of content and value-added features and enhancements that
are designed to take advantage of the speed of the Internet services we provide. Our commercial high-speed Internet service also includes a website hosting service and an online tool that allows customers to share, coordinate and store documents.

Phone Services

We
offer a Voice over Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) digital phone service that provides either usage-based or unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling, including features such as voice mail, caller ID and call waiting. We phased out
substantially all of our circuit-switched phone service in 2008. Our commercial phone service also includes a business directory listing and the option to add multiple phone lines.

Advertising

As part of our programming license agreements with programming networks, we often
receive an allocation of scheduled advertising





3Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K






time that we may sell to local, regional and national advertisers. In most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an
extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising time allocated to us. We also coordinate the advertising sales efforts of other cable operators in some markets, and in some markets we operate advertising interconnects. These
interconnects establish a physical, direct link between multiple providers for the sale of regional and national advertising across larger geographic areas than could be provided by a single cable operator. We are also in the process of developing
technology for interactive advertising.

Regional Sports Networks

Our regional sports networks include Comcast SportsNet (Philadelphia), Comcast SportsNet Mid-Atlantic (Baltimore/Washington), Cable Sports Southeast, Comcast SportsNet Chicago, MountainWest Sports Network, Comcast
SportsNet California (Sacramento), Comcast SportsNet New England (Boston), Comcast SportsNet Northwest (Portland), Comcast Sports Southwest (Houston) and Comcast SportsNet Bay Area (San Francisco). These networks generate revenue from monthly per
subscriber license fees paid by multichannel video providers and through the sale of advertising.

Other Revenue Sources

We also generate revenue from our digital media center, commissions from electronic retailing networks and fees from other services.

Sources of Supply

To offer our video services,
we license a substantial portion of our programming and the associated On Demand offerings from broadcast and cable programming networks, and we generally pay a monthly fee for such programming on a per video subscriber, per channel basis. We
attempt to secure long-term programming licenses with volume discounts and/or marketing support and incentives from these programming networks. We also license individual programs or packages of programs from programming suppliers for our On Demand
service, generally under shorter-term agreements.

Our video programming expenses depend on the number of our video customers, the
number of channels and programs we provide, and the programming license fees we are charged. We expect our video programming expenses to continue to be our largest single expense item and to increase in the future.

We purchase a significant number of set-top boxes and network equipment and services that we use in providing our cable services from a limited number
of suppliers.

For our high-speed Internet portal, Comcast.net, we license software products (such as e-mail and security software) and
content (such as news feeds) from a variety of suppliers under contracts in

which we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per customer basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share basis in the case of content licenses.

To offer our phone services, we license software products (such as voice mail) from a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts.
The fees we pay are based on the consumption of the related services.

We utilize two vendors to provide our subscriber billing.

Customer and Technical Services

We service our customers through local, regional and national call and technical centers. Call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability, telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs various tasks, including
installations, transmission and distribution plant maintenance, plant upgrades, and activities related to customer service.

Technology

Our cable systems employ a network architecture of hybrid fiber coax that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to
support our future technology requirements. This network allows the two-way delivery of transmissions, which is essential to providing interactive video services, such as On Demand, and high-speed Internet and phone services.

We continue to work on technology initiatives, including:



•the development of cross-platform functionality that integrates key features of two or more of our services (such as universal caller ID and a remotely
programmable DVR)



•the deployment of multiple tools to recapture bandwidth and optimize our network, including increasing the number of nodes in a service area, using advanced
video encoding and digital compression technologies, transitioning from analog to digital transmission as part of our all digital conversion, and deploying switched digital technology, which transmits only those digital standard-definition and
high-definition video channels that are being watched within a given grouping of households at any given moment



•the development of technology and software to better identify problems within our cable services and to allow for better integration of our software with
third party software



•working with members of CableLabs, a nonprofit research and development consortium founded by members of the cable industry, to develop and integrate a common
software platform, known as tru2way, that enables cable companies, content developers, network programmers, consumer electronics companies and others to extend interactivity to the TV set and other types of devices





Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K4






•exploring wireless options to extend our services outside the home to provide mobility and create new features that integrate with our services, including
through our investment in Clearwire



•offering of certain cable network programming to our customers online through Fancast XFINITY TV

Sales and Marketing

We offer our products and
services directly to residential and commercial customers through our call centers, door-to-door selling, direct mail advertising, television advertising, Internet advertising, local media advertising, telemarketing and retail outlets. We also
market our video, high-speed Internet and phone services individually and as bundled services.

Competition

We operate our businesses in an intensely competitive environment. We compete with a number of different companies that offer a broad range of services
through increasingly diverse means. Competition for the cable services we offer consists primarily of DBS operators and phone companies. In 2009, our competitors continued to add features and adopt aggressive pricing and packaging for services that
are comparable to the services we offer. In addition, phone companies have continued to expand their service areas, which now overlap a substantial portion of our service areas. These competitive factors have had an impact on and are likely to
continue to negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, we operate in a technologically complex environment where the use of certain types of technology may provide our competitors with a competitive advantage and where new
technologies are likely to increase the number of competitors we face for our cable services and our advertising business. We expect advances in communications technology, as well as changes in the marketplace, to continue in the future, and we are
unable to predict what effects these developments may have on our businesses and operations.

Video Services

We compete with a number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:



•DBS providers that transmit satellite signals containing video programming, data and other information to receiving dishes located on the customer’s
premises



•certain phone companies that have built and are continuing to build wireline fiber-optic-based networks, in some cases using Internet protocol technology,
that provide video and high-speed Internet services in substantial portions of our service areas; these phone companies also market DBS service in certain areas where they provide only phone and high-speed Internet service



•other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable
operators



•satellite master antenna television systems, known as SMATVs, that generally serve MDUs, office complexes, and residential developments

In recent years, Congress has enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory policies intended to provide a
favorable operating environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to our cable services. The FCC adopted rules favoring new investment by certain phone companies in networks capable of distributing video programming and
rules allocating and auctioning spectrum for new wireless services that may compete with our video service offerings. Furthermore, the FCC and various state governments have adopted measures that reduce or eliminate local franchising requirements
for new entrants into the multichannel video marketplace, including phone companies. Certain of these franchising entry measures have already been adopted in many states in which we operate. We believe that we have been and continue to be materially
disadvantaged as a result of these FCC rules, which apply less burdensome standards for certain types of our competitors (see “Legislation and Regulation” below).

Direct broadcast satellite systems

According to recent government and industry
reports, conventional, medium-power and high-power satellites provide video programming to approximately 38 million customers in the United States. DBS providers with high-power satellites typically offer more than 250 channels of programming,
including video services substantially similar to those offered by our video services. Two companies, DIRECTV and DISH Network, provide service to substantially all of these DBS customers.

High-power satellite service can be received throughout the continental United States through small rooftop or side-mounted outdoor antennas. Satellite systems use video compression technology
to increase channel capacity and digital technology to improve the quality and quantity of the signals transmitted to their customers. Our digital video services are competitive with the programming, channel capacity and quality of signals currently
delivered to customers by DBS providers.

Federal law generally provides satellite systems with access to cable-affiliated video
programming services delivered by satellite. DBS providers also have marketing arrangements with certain phone companies in which the DBS provider’s video services are sold together with the phone company’s high-speed Internet and phone
services.

Phone companies

Certain phone companies, in particular AT&T and Verizon, have built and continue to build fiber-optic-based networks to provide





5Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K






cable services similar to ours. These phone companies now offer their video services in a substantial portion of our service areas. In some areas, this expansion has been accelerated by certain
regulatory authorities adopting new rules designed to ease the franchising process and reduce franchising burdens for new providers of video services and by some phone companies claiming that they can provide their video services without a local
cable franchise (see “Legislation and Regulation” below). In some areas, these phone companies also have marketing arrangements with DBS providers in which their high-speed Internet and phone services are sold together with a DBS
provider’s video services.

Other wireline providers

We operate our cable systems under nonexclusive franchises that are issued by a local governing body, such as a city council or county board of supervisors or, in some cases, by a state
regulatory agency. Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises, and it permits franchising authorities to operate cable systems. In addition to phone companies, various other companies,
including those that traditionally have not provided cable services and have substantial financial resources (such as public utilities, including those that own some of the poles to which our cables are attached), have obtained cable franchises and
provide competing cable services. These and other cable systems offer cable services in various areas where we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based competitors may emerge in other franchise areas that we serve.

Satellite master antenna television systems

Our cable services also compete for customers with SMATV systems. SMATV system operators typically are not subject to regulation in the same manner as local, franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer
customers both improved reception of local television broadcast stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems. In addition, some SMATV system operators offer packages of video, Internet and phone services to residential and
commercial developments.

Other competitors

Our cable services also may compete to some degree for customers with other companies, such as:



•online services that offer Internet video streaming, downloading and distribution of movies, television shows and other video programming



•local television broadcast stations that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming



•wireless and other emerging mobile technologies that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming



•video rental services and home video products



High-Speed Internet Services

We compete with a number of companies offering Internet services, many of which have substantial resources, including:



•wireline phone companies



•Internet service providers, such as AOL, Earthlink and Microsoft



•wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service



•power companies

Digital
subscriber line (“DSL”) technology allows Internet access to be provided to customers over phone lines at data transmission speeds substantially greater than those of dial-up modems. Phone companies and certain other companies offer DSL
service, and several of these companies have increased transmission speeds, lowered prices or created bundled service packages. In addition, some phone companies, such as AT&T and Verizon, have built and are continuing to build fiber-optic-based
networks that allow them to provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that can be provided with DSL technology and are now offering these higher speed services in many of our service areas. The FCC has reduced the obligations of phone
companies to offer their broadband facilities on a wholesale or retail basis to competitors, and it has freed their DSL services of common carrier regulation.

Various wireless phone companies are offering 3G and 4G wireless high-speed Internet services. In addition, a growing number of commercial areas, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi Internet
service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and WiMAX Internet access networks, and commercial WiMAX offerings are being rolled out in some of our service areas by competing wireless
providers.

Phone Services

Our phone services compete against wireline phone companies, including competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”), wireless phone service providers and other VoIP service providers. Certain phone companies, such as AT&T and
Verizon, have substantial capital and other resources, longstanding customer relationships and extensive existing facilities and network rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources.

Advertising

We compete for the sale
of advertising against a wide variety of media, including local television broadcast stations, national television broadcast networks, national and regional programming networks, local radio broadcast stations, local and regional newspapers,
magazines and Internet sites.





Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K6






Programming Segment



Our Programming segment consists primarily of
our consolidated national programming networks. The table below presents a summary of our consolidated national programming networks.



Programming NetworkApproximateU.S. Subscribers atDecember 31, 2009(in millions)Description of ProgrammingE!86EntertainmentGolf Channel74Golf and golf-relatedVERSUS54Sports and leisureG459Gamer lifestyleStyle57Lifestyle



Revenue for our programming networks is primarily generated from monthly per subscriber license fees
paid by multichannel video providers that have typically entered into multiyear contracts to distribute our programming networks, the sale of advertising and the licensing of our programming internationally. To obtain long-term contracts with
distributors, we may make cash payments, provide an initial period in which license fee payments are waived or do both. Our programming networks assist distributors with ongoing marketing and promotional activities to acquire and retain customers.
Although we believe prospects of continued carriage and marketing of our programming networks by larger distributors are generally good, the loss of one or more of such distributors could have a material adverse effect on our programming networks.

Sources of Supply

Our
programming networks often produce their own television programs and broadcasts of live events. This often requires us to acquire the rights to the content that is used in such productions (such as rights to screenplays or sporting events). In other
cases, our programming networks license the cable telecast rights to television programs produced by third parties.

Competition

Our networks compete with other programming networks for distribution and programming. In addition, our programming networks compete for audience share
with all other forms of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local television broadcast stations, pay and other cable networks, home video, pay-per-view and video on demand services, and Internet sites. Finally, our
programming networks compete for advertising revenue with other national and local media, including other television networks, television stations, radio stations, newspapers, Internet sites and direct mail.

Other Businesses



Our other business interests include Comcast Interactive Media and Comcast Spectacor. Comcast Interactive Media develops and

operates our Internet businesses focused on entertainment, information and communication, including Comcast.net, Fancast, the Platform, Fandango, Plaxo and DailyCandy. Comcast Spectacor owns two
professional sports teams, the Philadelphia 76ers and the Philadelphia Flyers, and a large, multipurpose arena in Philadelphia, the Wachovia Center, and provides facilities management services, including food services, for sporting events, concerts
and other events.

We also own noncontrolling interests in certain networks and content providers, including FEARnet (33%), iN DEMAND
(54%), MGM (20%), Music Choice (12%), PBS KIDS Sprout (40%), Pittsburgh Cable News Channel (30%), TV One (34%), and SportsNet New York (8%). In addition, we have noncontrolling interests in wireless-related companies, including Clearwire
Communications LLC (9%) and SpectrumCo, LLC (64%).

Legislation and Regulation

Our Cable segment is subject to regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities under applicable laws and regulations, as well as under agreements we enter into with
franchising authorities. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), and FCC regulations and policies affect significant aspects of our Cable segment, including cable system ownership, video customer rates,
carriage of broadcast television stations, how we sell our programming packages to customers, access to cable system channels by franchising authorities and other parties, the use of utility poles and conduits, and the offering of our high-speed
Internet and phone services. Our Programming segment is also subject to some governmental regulation.

Federal regulation and regulatory
scrutiny of our Cable and Programming segments have increased in recent years, even as the cable industry has become subject to increasing competition from DBS providers, phone companies and others for video, high-speed





7Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K






Internet and phone services. Meanwhile, the FCC has provided regulatory relief and various regulatory advantages to our competitors, examples of which are provided below. Further, in some areas,
the Communications Act treats certain multichannel video programming distributors differently from others. For example, ownership limits, pricing and packaging regulation, must-carry rules and franchising regulations are not applicable to our DBS
competitors. Regulation continues to present significant adverse risks to our businesses.

It is possible that federal regulators will
condition their approval of the NBC Universal transaction on our agreeing to significant new regulatory obligations for our businesses or to limits on our business activities. Additionally, if our transaction with NBC Universal closes, we would
become subject to the array of broadcasting regulations and public interest obligations applicable to NBC Universal’s broadcasting stations.

Regulators at all levels of government frequently consider changing, and sometimes do change, existing rules or interpretations of existing rules, or prescribe new ones. For example, some parties have proposed that
the FCC subject our high-speed Internet services to the kinds of regulations that apply to common carrier telecommunications services, which would be a dramatic change from the regulatory approach that has applied to our high-speed Internet services
to date. We are unable to predict how any such changes will ultimately affect the regulation of our businesses. In addition, we always face the risk that Congress or one or more states will approve legislation significantly affecting our businesses,
such as proposed federal legislation that could substantially liberalize the procedures for union organization. The following paragraphs describe existing and potential future legal and regulatory requirements for our businesses.

Video Services



Ownership Limits

We currently serve
approximately 24% of the multichannel video customers nationwide. In August 2009, a federal appellate court struck down an FCC order that had established a 30% limit on the percentage of multichannel video customers that any single cable operator
could serve nationwide. While there is currently no limit on the number of video customers that a single cable operator can serve nationwide, the FCC may initiate consideration of a new ownership limit. However, even without the adoption of a new
ownership limit, federal regulators (including the FCC and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and/or the Department of Justice) could refuse to approve certain transactions that increase the number of video customers we serve.

The FCC is assessing whether it should revise a limit on the number of affiliated programming networks that a cable operator may carry
on its cable systems. While the FCC’s previous limit of

40% of the first 75 channels was struck down by a federal appellate court in 2001, the FCC continues to enforce the previous limit. The percentage of affiliated programming networks we currently
carry is well below the previous limit. We expect to be able to comply with the previous limit if our transaction with NBC Universal closes, but compliance could become more difficult depending on what regulations the FCC adopts, if any.

Pricing and Packaging

The Communications
Act and FCC regulations and policies limit the prices that cable operators may charge for basic service (whether transmitted in analog or digital), equipment and installation. These rules do not apply to cable systems that the FCC determines are
subject to effective competition or where local or state franchising authorities have chosen not to regulate rates. As a result, 75% of our customers are not subject to rate regulation, and, as of December 31, 2009, we have pending before the
FCC additional petitions for determination of effective competition for systems covering another 12% of our customers. From time to time, Congress and the FCC consider imposing new pricing or packaging regulations on the cable industry, including
proposals that would require cable operators to offer programming networks on an a la carte or themed-tier basis instead of, or in addition to, our current packaged offerings. As discussed under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3, we and
others are currently involved in litigation that could force us and other multichannel video programming distributors to offer programming networks on an a la carte basis. Additionally, uniform pricing requirements under the Communications Act may
affect our ability to respond to increased competition through offers that aim to retain existing customers or regain those we have lost.

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Cable operators are currently required to carry, without compensation, the programming
transmitted by most local commercial and noncommercial television stations. Alternatively, local television stations may insist that a cable operator negotiate for retransmission consent, which may enable popular stations to demand cash payments or
other significant concessions (such as the carriage of, and payment for, other programming networks affiliated with the broadcaster) as a condition of transmitting the TV broadcast signals that video customers expect to receive. Now that
broadcasters have completed their transition from analog to digital technology, cable operators generally are required to carry the primary digital programming stream of local broadcast stations, as well as an analog version of the primary digital
programming stream on systems that are not all digital. These requirements are scheduled to last until June 12, 2012, subject to possible extensions. The FCC has provided a limited exemption from these requirements for cable systems with an
activated channel capacity of 552 MHz or less. Under this exemption, which applies to certain of our cable systems, the operator is only obligated to carry an





Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K8






analog version of the broadcaster’s primary digital programming stream. The FCC may consider expanding must-carry rights in the future. Such expanded must-carry obligations could affect our
ability to allocate bandwidth to provide more HDTV programming and On Demand services, faster Internet speeds and other services.

Program
Access/Program Carriage/License Agreements

Leased Access

The Communications Act requires a cable system to make available up to 15% of its channel capacity for commercial leased access by third parties to
provide programming that may compete with services offered directly by the cable operator. While we have not been required to devote significant channel capacity to leased access to date, the FCC adopted rules in 2007 that dramatically reduce the
rates we can charge for leased access channels. Although the reduced rates initially will not apply to home shopping

or infomercial programmers, the FCC issued a further notice to determine if such programming should also have the benefit of the reduced rates. Implementation of these FCC rules, however, has
been stayed by a federal court pending the outcome of a challenge brought by us and other cable operators and also has been blocked by the Office of Management and Budget. If implemented, these rules could adversely affect our business by
significantly increasing the number of cable system channels occupied by leased access users and by significantly increasing the administrative burdens and costs associated with complying with such rules.

Cable Equipment

MDUs and Inside Wiring

Under an FCC order, exclusive video service access agreements between cable operators and MDUs or other private real estate developments are
prohibited. In May 2009, a federal appellate court upheld the FCC order, which had been challenged by the National Cable & Telecommunications Association. The FCC is also considering proposals to extend these prohibitions to non-cable
multichannel video programming distributors and to expand the scope of the rules to prohibit exclusive marketing and bulk billing agreements. The FCC’s order to abrogate the exclusivity provisions of those agreements could negatively affect





9Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K






our business, as would adoption of new limits on exclusive marketing and bulk billing. The FCC has also adopted rules facilitating competitors’ access to the cable wiring inside such MDUs.
These rules could also have an adverse impact on our business, as they allow our competitors to use wiring we have deployed to reach potential customers more quickly and inexpensively.

Pole Attachments

Franchising

Cable operators generally operate
their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or state franchising authorities. While the terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, franchises typically last for a fixed term, obligate
the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet service quality, customer service and other requirements, and are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions. The Communications Act permits franchising authorities to
establish reasonable requirements for public, educational and governmental access programming, and some of our franchises require substantial channel capacity and financial support for this programming. The Communications Act also contains
provisions

governing the franchising process, including, among other things, renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees against arbitrary denials of renewal. We believe that our franchise
renewal prospects generally are favorable.

Over the past few years, there has been considerable activity at both the federal and state
levels addressing franchise requirements imposed on new entrants, primarily directed at facilitating phone companies’ entry into cable services. Under FCC rules adopted in 2006, the franchising process and burdens for new entrants have been
eased by, among other things, limiting the range of financial, construction and other commitments that franchising authorities can request of new entrants, requiring franchising authorities to act on franchise applications by new entrants within 90
days, and preempting certain local “level playing field” franchising requirements. The FCC subsequently adopted more modest franchising relief for existing cable operators. We believe that we have been and continue to be materially
disadvantaged as a result of these FCC rules, which apply less burdensome franchising standards to certain types of our competitors. From time to time, Congress has also considered proposals to eliminate or streamline local franchising requirements
for phone companies and other new entrants. We cannot predict whether such legislation will be enacted or what effect it would have on our business.

In addition, approximately half of the states in which we operate have enacted legislation to provide statewide franchising or to simplify local franchising requirements for new entrants, thus relieving new
entrants of many of the local franchising burdens faced by incumbent cable operators like us. Some of these statutes also allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the new
entrant provide service to all parts of the franchise area or permitting the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve. Certain of these state statutes allow incumbent cable operators to opt into the new state franchise where a
competing state franchise has been issued for the incumbent cable operator’s franchise area. However, even in those states where incumbent cable operators are allowed to opt into a state franchise, the incumbent cable operators often are
required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than the new entrant’s state franchise.

Copyright Regulation

In exchange for filing reports and contributing a percentage of revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool, cable operators can obtain
blanket permission to retransmit copyrighted material contained in broadcast signals. The possible modification or elimination of this copyright license is the subject of ongoing legislative and administrative review. The Copyright Office has issued
a report to Congress in which it recommended eliminating the compulsory copyright license in favor of free market negotiations between cable operators and copyright owners. If adopted, this





Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K10






proposal could adversely affect our ability to obtain certain programming and substantially increase our programming costs. In May 2008, the Copyright Office rejected a cable industry request to
clarify that copyright fees associated with the retransmission of out-of-market broadcast signals should be limited to system customers who actually receive those signals. The Copyright Office concluded it did not have authority under the governing
statute to adopt that interpretation. There is a risk that the Copyright Office’s determination on this issue could materially increase the copyright royalty fees that we and other cable operators pay to retransmit out-of-market broadcast
signals. Further, in June 2008, the Copyright Office issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking addressing how the compulsory license will apply to digital broadcast signals and services. In this notice, the Copyright Office proposed to require royalty
fees from cable operators for carriage of each digital multicast stream of programming from an out-of-market television broadcast station. If adopted, this proposal could increase our royalty fees for the carriage of out-of-market television
stations. Currently, we do not carry a significant number of multicast streams of programming from out-of-market stations, although our carriage of such programming streams may increase in the future. Legislation is pending in Congress that, if
passed, would address each of the Copyright Office matters.

In addition, we pay standard industry licensing fees to use music in the
programs we create, including our Cable segment’s local advertising and local origination programming and our Programming segment’s original programs. These licensing fees have been the source of litigation with music performance rights
organizations in the past, and we cannot predict with certainty whether license fee disputes may arise in the future.

High-Speed
Internet Services



We
provide high-speed Internet services over our cable systems. In 2002, the FCC ruled that this was an interstate information service that is not subject to regulation as a telecommunications service under federal law or to state or local utility
regulation. However, our high-speed Internet services are subject to a number of regulatory obligations, including compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) requirement that high-speed Internet service
providers must implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting surveillance of persons suspected of criminal activity.

The FCC has proposed adopting so-called “net neutrality” rules that would define certain rights for users of high-speed Internet services and regulate or restrict some types of commercial agreements
between service providers and providers of Internet content. In 2005, the FCC issued what was characterized at the time as a nonbinding policy statement identifying four “principles” of Internet openness that would guide its policymaking
regarding high-speed Internet and related services. In 2009, the FCC pro
- -

The FCC also is currently developing a “national broadband plan,” which could result in new regulatory proposals for, or new competition to,
our high-speed Internet services. Meanwhile, the Departments of Agriculture and Commerce are awarding significant grants and loans to providers of Internet services, which may increase the competition we face.

A federal program known as the Universal Service program generally requires telecommunications service providers to collect and pay a fee based on
their revenue from their services (in recent years, approximately 11% of interstate revenue from our phone services) into a fund, the Universal Service Fund, used to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and
Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain health care providers. Congress and the FCC are considering proposals that could result in our high-speed Internet services being subject to Universal Service fees and that
could





11Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K






also result in subsidies being provided to our Internet (and video) competitors. We cannot predict whether or how the Universal Service funding system might be extended to cover high-speed
Internet services or, if that occurs, how it will affect us.

In addition, Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of
measures affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer privacy, consumer protection, copyright protection, defamation liability, taxation, obscenity and unsolicited commercial e-mail. State and local governments have also adopted
Internet-related regulations. Furthermore, Congress, the FCC and certain state and local governments are also considering proposals to impose customer service, quality of service, taxation, child safety, privacy and standard pricing regulations on
high-speed Internet service providers. It is uncertain whether any of these proposals will be adopted. The adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws to the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our high-speed Internet
business.

Phone Services



We provide voice services by using
interconnected VoIP technology, which we refer to as our phone services in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The FCC has adopted a number of orders addressing regulatory issues relating to providers of nontraditional voice services such as ours,
including regulations relating to customer proprietary network information, local number portability duties and benefits, disability access, E911, CALEA, and contributions to the federal Universal Service Fund, but has not yet ruled on the
appropriate classification of phone services using interconnected VoIP technology. The regulatory environment for our phone services therefore remains uncertain at both the federal and the state levels. Until the FCC definitively classifies phone
services using interconnected VoIP technology for state and federal regulatory purposes, state regulatory commissions and legislatures may continue to investigate imposing regulatory requirements on our phone services.

Because the FCC has not determined the appropriate classification of our phone services, the precise scope of phone company interconnection rules
applicable to us as a provider of nontraditional voice services is not entirely clear. In light of this uncertainty, providers of nontraditional voice services typically either secure CLEC authorization or obtain interconnection to traditional
wireline phone company networks by contracting with an existing CLEC, whose right, as a telecommunications carrier, to request and obtain interconnection with the traditional wireline phone companies is set forth in the Communications Act. We have
arranged for such interconnection rights through our own CLECs and through third party CLECs. While some traditional wireline phone companies have challenged our right to interconnect directly with them, we have prevailed in almost all of these
challenges. If a regulatory or judicial authority were to deny our ability to interconnect through one of our CLECs, our ability to provide

phone services and compete in the area in question would be negatively impacted.

It is uncertain whether the FCC or Congress will adopt further rules regarding interconnection rights and arrangements and how such rules would affect our phone services.

In addition, a few state public utility commissions are conducting proceedings that could lead to the imposition of state telephone regulations upon our phone services, and we could incur
additional costs in complying with any such regulations.

Other Areas



The FCC actively regulates other aspects of
our Cable segment and limited aspects of our Programming segment, including the mandatory blackout of syndicated, network and sports programming; customer service standards; political advertising; indecent or obscene programming; Emergency Alert
System requirements for analog and digital services; closed captioning requirements for the hearing impaired; commercial restrictions on children’s programming; origination cablecasting (i.e., programming locally originated by and under the
control of the cable operator); sponsorship identification; equal employment opportunity; lottery programming; recordkeeping and public file access requirements; telemarketing; technical standards relating to operation of the cable network; and
regulatory fees. We are unable to predict how these regulations might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our Cable and Programming businesses. In addition, while we believe that we are in substantial compliance with FCC
rules, we are occasionally subject to enforcement actions at the FCC, which can result in our having to pay fines to the agency.

State and Local
Taxes

Some states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on the services we offer,
or imposing adverse methodologies by which taxes or fees are computed. These include combined reporting or other changes to general business taxes, central assessments for property tax, and taxes and fees on video, high-speed Internet and phone
services. We and other cable industry members are challenging certain of these taxes through administrative and court proceedings. In addition, in some situations our DBS competitors and other competitors that deliver their services over a
high-speed Internet connection do not face similar state tax and fee burdens. Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to bar states from imposing taxes on DBS providers that are equivalent to the taxes or fees that we pay.

Privacy and Security Regulation

The Communications Act generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of cable customers’ personally identifiable information by cable operators. There are





Comcast 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K12






exceptions that permit the collection and disclosure of this information for rendering service, conducting legitimate business activities related to the service and responding to legal requests.
The Telecommunications Act of 1996 provides additional privacy protections for customer proprietary network information, commonly known as CPNI, related to our digital phone services. A handful of states and the District of Columbia have enacted
privacy laws that apply to cable services. The FTC has begun to exercise greater authority over privacy protections generally, using its existing authority over unfair and deceptive practices and other public proceedings to apply greater
restrictions on the collection and use of personally identifiable and other information relating to consumers. The FCC also is seeking public comments on how and whether it should address broadband privacy issues in a notice of inquiry for a
national broadband plan. Further, certain key Congressional committees and lawmakers have expressed an intention to introduce legislation to expand privacy-related regulation.

We are also subject to state and federal rules and laws regarding information security. Most of these rules and laws apply to customer information that could be used to commit identity theft.
Forty-five states and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach notification laws. These laws generally require that a business give notice to its customers whose financial account information has been disclosed because of a security
breach. The FTC is applying the “red flag rules” in the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 to both financial institutions and creditors, and the FTC’s interpretation of the rules considers us to be a creditor. We intend
to comply with these rules, which are currently scheduled to become effective for us on June 1, 2010, by using an identity theft prevention program to identify, detect and respond to patterns, practices or specific activities that could
indicate identity theft.

We are also subject to state and federal “do not call” laws regarding telemarketing and state and
federal laws regarding unsolicited commercial e-mails. Additional and more restrictive requirements may be imposed if and to the extent that state or local authorities establish their own privacy or security standards or if Congress enacts new
privacy or security legislation.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 107,000 employees, including part-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 89,000 were associated with our Cable business and the remainder were associated with our
Programming and other businesses. Approximately 6,000 of our employees (including part-time employees) are covered by collective bargaining agreements or have organized but are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We believe we have good
relationships with our employees.



Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. In this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance. In some cases, you can identify these so-called “forward-looking statements” by words such as “may,” “will,”
“should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words, and other comparable words. You should be aware that those statements are only our
predictions. In evaluating those statements, you should specifically consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties listed in“Risk Factors” under Item 1A and in other reports we file with the SEC.

Additionally, we operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment. The environment is affected by government
regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and services; technological developments; and, particularly in view of new technologies, the ability to develop and protect intellectual
property rights. Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements or as a result of any of such factors, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We undertake no
obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

