Item 1: Business

We are a global media and technology company with two primary businesses, Comcast Cable and NBCUniversal. We were incorporated under the laws of Pennsylvania in December 2001. Through our predecessors, we have
developed, managed and operated cable systems since 1963, and in 2011, we acquired control of the businesses of NBCUniversal. We present our operations in the following five reportable business segments:



•Cable Communications:Consists of the operations of Comcast Cable, which is the nation’s largest provider of video, high-speed Internet and voice
services (“cable services”) to residential customers under the XFINITY brand, and we also provide these services to businesses.



•Cable Networks:Consists primarily of our national cable networks, our regional sports and news networks, our international cable networks, our cable
television production studio, and our related digital media properties.



•Broadcast Television:Consists primarily of the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, our NBC and Telemundo owned local broadcast television stations,
our broadcast television production operations, and our related digital media properties.



•Filmed Entertainment:Consists primarily of the operations of Universal Pictures, which produces, acquires, markets and distributes filmed
entertainment worldwide.



•Theme Parks:Consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood.

In 2012, our Cable Communications segment generated 63% of our consolidated revenue
and more than 80% of our operating income before depreciation and amortization. The Cable Networks, Broadcast Television, Filmed Entertainment and Theme Parks segments comprise the NBCUniversal businesses and are collectively referred to as the
“NBCUniversal segments.”

Our other business interests primarily include Comcast-Spectacor, which owns the Philadelphia Flyers
and the Wells Fargo Center arena in Philadelphia and operates arena management-related businesses.

For financial and other information
about our reportable segments, refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Available
Information and Websites

Our phone number is (215) 286-1700, and our principal executive offices are located at One Comcast Center,
Philadelphia, PA 19103-2838. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under Sections 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and on our website at www.comcastcorporation.com as soon as reasonably practicable
after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into our SEC filings.





1Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




General Developments of Our Businesses

The following are the more significant developments in our businesses during 2012:



•an increase in consolidated revenue of 12.0% to $62.6 billion and an increase in consolidated operating income of 13.6% to $12.2 billion



•an increase in Cable Communications segment revenue of 6.4% to $39.6 billion and an increase in Cable Communications segment operating income before
depreciation and amortization of 6.3% to $16.3 billion



•an increase in total NBCUniversal revenue to $23.8 billion, which represents a 12.7% increase on a pro forma basis and includes $1.4 billion related to our
broadcasts of the 2012 London Olympics and the 2012 Super Bowl, and an increase in total NBCUniversal operating income before depreciation and amortization to $4.1 billion, which represents a 9.0% increase on a pro forma basis



•the completion of SpectrumCo’s transaction to sell its advanced wireless services (“AWS”) spectrum licenses to Verizon Wireless for $3.6
billion, of which our portion of the proceeds was $2.3 billion, and the commencement of sales under our agency agreements with Verizon Wireless, which provide for, among other things, the sale of our cable services by Verizon Wireless and our sale
of Verizon Wireless products and services (the “SpectrumCo transaction”)



•the redemption by A&E Television Networks LLC (“A&E Television Networks”) of NBCUniversal’s 15.8% equity interest in A&E Television
Networks for $3 billion in cash proceeds (the “A&E Television Networks transaction”)

Recent Developments

On February 12, 2013, we entered into an agreement to acquire GE’s 49% common equity interest in NBCUniversal Holdings for approximately $16.7 billion. In addition, NBCUniversal agreed to acquire from GE the
portion of 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York City that NBCUniversal occupies and CNBC’s headquarters in Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey for approximately $1.4 billion. The transactions, which are subject to customary closing conditions, are
expected to close by the end of March 2013.

The consideration will consist of $11.4 billion of cash on hand; $4 billion of senior
unsecured debt securities issued by a holding company (“HoldCo”), whose sole asset is its interests in NBCUniversal Holdings; $2 billion of cash funded through a combination of Comcast’s existing credit facility and
NBCUniversal’s credit facility, which is expected to be amended, among other things, to substitute HoldCo as the sole borrower; and $725 million of Holdco preferred stock. After closing, we will control and consolidate HoldCo and own all of its
capital stock other than the preferred stock. HoldCo’s debt securities and credit facility will be guaranteed by us and the cable holding company subsidiaries that guarantee our senior indebtedness. The preferred stock will pay dividends at a
fixed rate and can be put to HoldCo for redemption at par on the later of seven years following the issuance of the preferred stock and three years following the sale by GE of shares to unaffiliated third parties, and thereafter, every third
anniversary of such date (a “Put Date”). Shares of preferred stock can be called for redemption by HoldCo at par one year following each Put Date applicable to such shares.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K2




Description of Our Businesses

Cable Communications Segment



The table below summarizes certain customer and penetration data for our cable system operations.



December 31 (in millions)20122011201020092008Homes and businesses passed(a)53.252.551.951.250.6VideoVideo
customers(b)22.022.322.823.624.2Video
penetration(c)41.4%42.5%43.9%46.0%47.8%Digital video
customers(d)21.220.619.718.417.0Digital video
penetration(d)96.6%92.0%86.6%78.2%70.3%High-speed InternetHigh-speed Internet customers19.418.117.015.914.9High-speed Internet penetration(c)36.4%34.6%32.7%31.1%29.5%VoiceVoice customers10.09.38.67.66.5Voice penetration(c)18.7%17.8%16.6%14.9%12.8%

Basis of Presentation: Customer metrics include our residential and business customers. Information related to cable
system acquisitions is included from the date acquired. Information related to cable systems sold or exchanged is excluded for all periods presented. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to
rounding.



(a)Homes and businesses are considered passed if we can connect them to our distribution system without further extending the transmission lines. Homes and
businesses passed is an estimate based on the best available information.



(b)Generally, a home or business receiving video programming from our distribution system counts as one video customer. In the case of some multiple dwelling
units (“MDUs”), we count video customers on an FCC equivalent basis by dividing total monthly revenue received from a contract with an MDU by the standard monthly residential rate where the MDU is located.



(c)Penetration is calculated by dividing the number of customers by the number of homes and businesses passed.



(d)Digital video customers include customers receiving digital signals through any means, including CableCARDs and digital transport adapters. Digital video
penetration is calculated by dividing the number of digital video customers by total video customers.

Cable Services

We offer a variety of cable services over our cable distribution system to residential and business customers. Subscription rates
and related charges vary according to the services and features customers receive and the type of equipment they use, and customers are typically billed in advance on a monthly basis. Residential customers may generally discontinue service at any
time, while business customers may only discontinue service in accordance with the terms of their contracts, which typically have 2 to 5 year terms.

Video Services

We offer a broad variety of video services with access to hundreds of
channels depending on the level of service selected. Our levels of service typically range from a limited basic service with access to between 20 and 40 channels of video programming to a full digital service with access to over 300 channels.
Our video services generally include programming provided by national broadcast networks, local broadcast stations, and national and regional cable networks, as well as governmental and public access programming. Our digital video services generally
include access to our On Demand service and an interactive, on-screen program guide. We also offer packages that include extensive amounts of foreign-language programming, and we offer other specialty tiers of programming with sports, family and
international themes. We tailor our video services offerings serving a particular geographic area according to applicable local and federal regulatory requirements, programming preferences and demographics.

Our video customers may also subscribe to premium network programming. Premium networks include cable networks such as HBO, Showtime, Starz and
Cinemax that generally offer, without commercial interruption, movies, original programming, live and taped sporting events and concerts, and other features.





3Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Our On Demand service provides our digital video customers with more than 30,000 standard-definition
and high-definition programming choices. A substantial portion of our On Demand content is available to our digital video customers at no additional charge. Digital video customers subscribing to a premium network have access to the premium
network’s On Demand content without additional fees. Our On Demand service allows our video customers to access or order, including some for a specified fee, individual new release and library movies and special-event programs, such as sporting
events and concerts. We plan to continue increasing the number of On Demand choices available, including HD programming.

Our HD video
service provides customers that have an HD set-top box with high-resolution picture quality, improved audio quality and a wide-screen format. Our HD service includes a broad selection of HD programming choices, including major broadcast networks,
leading national cable networks, premium networks and regional sports networks. In addition, our On Demand service provides HD video customers with a selection of up to 6,000 HD programming choices in select markets over the course of a month. We
also offer select programming in 3-D format, on both linear channels and through On Demand, to our HD customers who have 3-D capable TV sets. Our DVR service allows digital video customers to select, record and store programs on their set-top box
and play them at whatever time is convenient. Our DVR service also provides the ability to pause and rewind “live” television.

Our video customers also have the ability to use XFINITY.net or our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets to view certain live programming and
some of our On Demand content, browse program listings, and, in select markets, schedule and manage DVR recordings. In 2012, we launched our Streampix subscription video service that allows video customers to view additional movies and other content
through On Demand or XFINITY.net or by using our mobile apps.

High-Speed Internet Services

We offer a variety of high-speed Internet services with downstream speeds of up to 105 Mbps, subject to geographic market availability, and we also
have introduced speeds of up to 305 Mbps in limited markets. These services also include our Internet portal, XFINITY.net, which provides access to email, an address book, online storage and online security features. Our customers also have the
ability to access these services, including manage their email accounts and security features, using our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets.

Voice Services

We offer voice service plans using an interconnected Voice over
Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) technology that provide either usage-based or unlimited local and domestic long-distance calling and include options for international calling plans, voicemail, voicemail transcriptions, text messaging, caller ID
and call waiting. For customers with our high-speed Internet services, our voice services also provide customers with the ability to access and manage voicemail, text messaging and other account features through XFINITY.net or by using our mobile
apps for smartphones and tablets.

Business Services

We offer our cable services to small (up to 20 employees) and medium-sized (up to 500 employees) businesses (“business services”). In addition to the features provided to our residential cable services
customers, our services for business customers include a website hosting service, an interactive tool that allows customers to share, coordinate and store documents online, hosted voice services using cloud network servers, a business directory
listing, and the added capacity for multiple phone lines that meet the needs of our business customers.

In 2012, we began increasing
the number of services we offer to medium-sized business customers, including adding advanced voice services and our metro Ethernet network services. We also provide cellular backhaul services to mobile network operators, which help our customers
manage continued growth in demand for network bandwidth.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K4




Advertising

As part of our distribution agreements with cable networks, we generally receive an allocation of scheduled advertising time on the cable networks that we may sell to local, regional and national advertisers. In
most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force. In some cases, we work with representation firms as an extension of our sales force to sell a portion of the advertising time allocated to us. We also coordinate the advertising
sales efforts of other multichannel video providers in some markets. In addition, we generate revenue from the sale of advertising online and on our On Demand service.

Other Revenue Sources

We receive revenue related to cable franchise and other regulatory fees.
We also receive revenue related to our digital media center, commissions from electronic retailing networks, and fees from other newer services, such as our home security and automation services and expanded technical support services. Our cable
franchise and regulatory fees represent the fees required to be paid to federal, state and local authorities that we pass through to our customers. Under the terms of our franchise agreements, we are generally required to pay to the cable
franchising authority an amount based on our gross video revenue. Our home security and automation offering provides home monitoring services to our customers as well as the ability to manage other functions within the home, such as lighting and
climate control, through XFINITY.net or our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets.

Technology

Our cable distribution system uses a hybrid fiber-optic and coaxial cable network that we believe is sufficiently flexible and scalable to support
our future technology requirements. This network provides the two-way transmissions that are essential to providing interactive video services, such as On Demand, and high-speed Internet and voice services. We are also leveraging our network to
develop and deliver innovative services to our customers efficiently and in an accelerated fashion.

We continue to develop and launch
new technology initiatives, such as:



•developing and launching next-generation media and content delivery platforms, such as our new X1 platform, that use IP technology and our own cloud network
servers to deliver video and advanced search capabilities



•enabling a variety of consumer electronic devices, including computers, tablets, smartphones and Internet-connected televisions, to search, control and
display the programming and other content we provide to our video customers



•expanding the use of our network to launch new services, including providing services to medium-sized businesses and offering home security and automation
services



•developing wireless options to extend our services outside the home to provide mobility through the use of apps for smartphones and tablets, deploying Wi-Fi
in portions of our service areas and marketing Verizon Wireless services with our cable services offerings in select markets



•deploying multiple tools to recapture bandwidth and optimize our network, including using advanced video encoding and digital compression technologies



•developing technology and software that allow customers to better identify problems with our cable services and provide for better integration of our software
with third-party software





5Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Sources of Supply

To offer our video services, we license a substantial portion of our programming from cable and broadcast networks, as well as local broadcast television stations. We attempt to secure long-term programming
distribution agreements with our content providers. We also license individual programs or packages of programs from programming suppliers for our On Demand and streaming services. We seek to include in our distribution arrangements the rights to
offer such programming to our subscribers through multiple delivery platforms that may be used in a variety of locations, such as through On Demand and XFINITY.net and through our mobile apps for smartphones and tablets.

Our video programming expenses are affected by the programming license fees charged by cable networks and fees for retransmission of local
broadcast television stations’ signals and by the number of video customers we serve and the amount of content we provide. We anticipate that our programming expenses will continue to increase.

We purchase from a limited number of suppliers a significant number of set-top boxes, network equipment and services that we use in providing our
cable services.

For our high-speed Internet services, we license software products (such as email and security software) and content
(such as news feeds) for our portal, XFINITY.net, from a variety of suppliers under contracts in which we generally pay on a fixed-fee basis, on a per subscriber basis in the case of software product licenses or on a video advertising revenue share
basis in the case of content licenses.

For our voice services, we license software products (such as voicemail and text messaging) from
a variety of suppliers under multiyear contracts. The fees we pay are generally based on the consumption of the related services.

We
use two vendors to provide customer billing for our cable services.

Customer and Technical Services

Our customer service call centers provide 24/7 call-answering capability, telemarketing and other services. Our technical services group performs
various tasks, including installations, plant maintenance and upgrades to our cable distribution system.

Sales and Marketing

We offer our services directly to residential and business customers through our call centers, door-to-door selling, direct mail advertising,
television advertising, Internet advertising, local media advertising, telemarketing and retail outlets. We market our cable services both individually and as bundled services. In addition, in 2012, Verizon Wireless became an agent to sell our cable
services in many of the markets in which we provide our cable services.

NBCUniversal Segments



In 2011, we closed the NBCUniversal and
Universal Orlando transactions in which we acquired control of the businesses of NBCUniversal and Universal Orlando, respectively. For additional information on the NBCUniversal and Universal Orlando transactions, refer to Note 4 to our consolidated
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K6




Cable Networks

Our Cable Networks segment consists of a diversified portfolio of 15 national cable networks, 11 regional sports and news networks, various international channels, our cable television production studio, and our
related digital media properties, which are primarily brand-aligned and other websites. The table below presents a summary of our national cable networks.



Cable NetworkApproximate U.S.Subscribers atDecember 31, 2012(in millions)(a)Description of ProgrammingUSA Network99General entertainmentSyfy98Imagination-based entertainmentE!97Entertainment and pop cultureCNBC97Business and financial newsMSNBC9524 hour newsBravo95Entertainment, culture and artsGolf Channel84Golf competition and golf entertainmentOxygen79Women’s interestsNBC Sports Network78SportsStyle76LifestyleG462Gamer lifestyleChiller43Horror and suspenseCNBC World35Global financial newsCloo34Crime, mystery and suspenseUniversal HD27General entertainment HD programming



(a)Subscriber data is based on The Nielsen Company’s January 2013 report, which is derived from information available during the period December 19,
2012 through December 25, 2012, except for Universal HD, which is derived from information provided by multichannel video providers.

Our 11 regional sports and news networks serve a combined 39 million subscribers across the United States, including key markets such as Atlanta, Baltimore/Washington, Boston, Chicago, Philadelphia, Portland,
Sacramento and San Francisco.

We market and distribute our cable network programming in the United States and internationally to
multichannel video providers, as well as to digital distributors, such as Netflix and iTunes. These distributors may exhibit our content on television, including video on demand and pay-per-view, online and through mobile apps for smartphones and
tablets.

Our cable networks produce their own programs or acquire programming rights from third parties. Our Cable Networks segment
includes our production studio, Universal Cable Productions, which identifies, develops and produces original content for cable television and other distribution platforms both for our cable networks and for those of third parties. We license this
content to cable networks, broadcast networks and digital distributors.

Our Cable Networks segment generates revenue primarily from the
distribution of our cable network programming and from the sale of advertising. Distribution revenue is generated from distribution agreements with multichannel video providers. Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising time on
our cable networks and related digital media properties. We also generate content licensing and other revenue primarily from the licensing of our owned programming to various distribution platforms in the United States and internationally.





7Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Broadcast Television

Our Broadcast Television segment operates the NBC and Telemundo broadcast television networks, which together serve audiences and advertisers in all 50 states. Our Broadcast Television segment also includes our
owned NBC and Telemundo local broadcast television stations, our broadcast television production operations, and our related digital media properties.

Our Broadcast Television segment generates revenue primarily from the sale of advertising and from content licensing. Advertising revenue is generated from the sale of advertising time on our broadcast networks,
owned local television stations and related digital media properties. Content licensing revenue is generated from the licensing of our owned programming in the United States and internationally, including to cable and broadcast networks and digital
distributors, such as Netflix. We also generate revenue from the sale of our owned programming on standard-definition DVDs and Blu ray discs (together, “DVDs”) and through other digital distributors, such as iTunes. In addition, our owned
local television stations are beginning to receive fees from multichannel video providers in exchange for retransmission consent that allows carriage of the stations’ signals. We also receive a portion of the retransmission fees received by our
NBC affiliated broadcast television stations. We expect these fees to increase in the future as we, as well as our NBC affiliated broadcast television stations, renegotiate distribution agreements with multichannel video providers.

NBC Network

The NBC network
distributes more than 5,000 hours of entertainment, news and sports programming annually, and its programs reach viewers in virtually all U.S. television households through more than 200 affiliated stations across the United States, including our 10
NBC owned local television stations. The NBC network develops a broad range of entertainment, news and sports content and also airs a variety of special-events programming. The NBC network’s television library consists of rights of varying
nature to more than 100,000 episodes of popular television content, including current and classic titles, unscripted programming, sports, news, long-form and short-form programming, and locally produced programming from around the world. In
addition, the NBC network operates various websites that extend its brands and content online.

The NBC network produces its own
programs or acquires the rights to programming from third parties. NBCUniversal has various contractual commitments for the licensing of rights to multiyear programming, primarily sports programming. Our most significant sports programming
commitments include an agreement with the NFL to produce and broadcast a specified number of regular season and playoff games, includingSunday Night Footballon NBC through the 2022-23 season and the 2015, 2018 and 2021 Super Bowl games. In
addition, the NBC network owns the U.S. broadcast rights for the summer and winter Olympic Games through 2020. We also have broadcast rights to a specified number of NHL games through the 2020-21 season, U.S television rights to English Premier
League Soccer beginning in 2013 through the 2015-16 season and certain PGA TOUR golf events through 2021. NBCUniversal’s sports programming agreements also include rights to distribute content on our national cable networks, including NBC
Sports Network and Golf Channel, on our regional sports networks where applicable, and also online, including through mobile apps available for smartphones and tablets.

Our broadcast television production operations develop and produce original content, including scripted and unscripted series and talk shows that are licensed to broadcast networks, cable networks, local broadcast
television stations and other distribution platforms owned by us and third parties, as well as through the sale of DVDs, both in the United States and internationally. We also produce “first-run” syndicated shows, which are programs for
initial exhibition on local television stations in the United States, on a market-by-market basis, without prior exhibition on a network. We currently distribute some of our television programs after their initial exhibition, as well as older
television programs from our library, to local broadcast television stations and cable networks in the off-network syndication market.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K8




NBC Local Broadcast Television Stations

We own and operate 10 NBC affiliated local television stations that collectively reached 31 million U.S. television households, which
represents approximately 27% of all U.S. television households, as of December 31, 2012. In addition to airing the NBC network’s national programming, our local television stations produce news, sports, public affairs and other programming
that addresses local needs and acquire syndicated programming from other sources. The table below presents a summary of the NBC affiliated local broadcast television stations that we own and operate.



DMA Served(a)StationGeneral Market 
Rank(b)Percentage of U.S.Television Households(c)New York, NYWNBC16%Los Angeles, CAKNBC25%Chicago, ILWMAQ-TV33%Philadelphia, PAWCAU43%Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXAS-TV52%San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKNTV62%Washington, D.C.WRC-TV82%Miami-Ft. Lauderdale, FLWTVJ161%San Diego, CAKNSD281%Hartford, CTWVIT301%



(a)Designated market area (“DMA”) served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local
advertising time.



(b)General market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among the 210 generally recognized DMAs in the United States based on Nielsen estimates for the
2012-13 season.



(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2012-13 season. The percentage of U.S. television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience reach
under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits. See “Legislation and Regulation – Broadcast Television – Ownership Limits – National Television Ownership.”

Telemundo

Telemundo is a leading
Hispanic media company that produces, acquires and distributes Spanish-language content in the United States and internationally. Telemundo’s operations include the Telemundo network, its owned local television stations, the mun2 cable network
and brand-aligned digital media properties.

The Telemundo network is a leading Spanish-language broadcast television network featuring
original telenovelas, theatrical films, news, specials and sporting events. Telemundo develops original programming primarily through its production studio and also acquires the rights to content from third parties. We currently hold the
Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights to FIFA World Cup soccer from 2015 through 2022 and the Spanish-language U.S. broadcast rights for the NFL games that the NBC network will broadcast through the 2022-23 season as part of our agreement with the
NFL.





9Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Telemundo Local Broadcast Television Stations

As of December 31, 2012, Telemundo owned 15 local television stations, including 14 local television stations affiliated with the Telemundo
network and an independent television station in Puerto Rico. The table below presents a summary of these local television stations, which collectively reached approximately 56% of U.S. Hispanic television households as of December 31, 2012.



DMA Served(a)StationHispanic Market 
Rank(b)Percentage of U.S.Hispanic TelevisionHouseholds(c)Los Angeles, CAKVEA114%New York, NYWNJU210%Miami, FLWSCV35%Houston, TXKTMD44%Dallas-Fort Worth, TXKXTX-TV54%Chicago, ILWSNS-TV64%San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, CAKSTS73%San Antonio, TXKVDA(d)83%Phoenix, AZKTAZ93%Fresno, CAKNSO(d)142%Denver, COKDEN-TV162%Las Vegas, NVKBLR231%Boston, MAWNEU(d)241%Tucson, AZKHRR251%Puerto RicoWKAQ-TV——



(a)DMA served is defined by Nielsen Media Research as a geographic market for the sale of national spot and local advertising time.



(b)Hispanic market rank is based on the relative size of the DMA among approximately 14 million U.S. Hispanic households as of December 31, 2012.



(c)Based on Nielsen estimates for the 2012-13 season. The percentage of U.S. Hispanic television households does not reflect the calculation of national audience
reach under the FCC’s national television ownership cap limits. See “Legislation and Regulation – Broadcast Television – Ownership Limits – National Television Ownership.”



(d)Operated by a third party that provides certain non-network programming and operations services under a time brokerage agreement.

Filmed Entertainment

Our Filmed Entertainment segment produces, acquires, markets and distributes both live-action and animated filmed entertainment worldwide. We also develop, produce and license live stage plays.

We produce films both on our own and jointly with other studios or production companies, as well as with other entities. Our films are produced
primarily under the Universal Pictures, Focus Features and Illumination names. Our films are marketed and distributed worldwide primarily through our own marketing and distribution companies. We also acquire distribution rights to films produced by
others, which may be limited to particular geographic regions, specific forms of media or certain periods of time. Our content consists of theatrical films, direct-to-video titles and our film library, which is comprised of more than 5,000 titles in
a variety of genres.

We have entered, and may continue to enter, into film cofinancing arrangements with third parties, including both
studio and nonstudio entities, to jointly finance or distribute certain of our film productions. These arrangements can take various forms, but in most cases involve the grant of an economic interest in a film to an investor. Investors generally
assume the full risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K10




The majority of our produced and acquired films are initially distributed for exhibition in movie
theaters. After their release in movie theaters, we sell and license our films through various methods. We distribute our films globally by selling them in DVD format to retail stores, rental kiosks and subscription by mail services, and through
digital distributors. We also license our films, including selections from our film library to cable, broadcast and premium networks, digital distributors and to video-on-demand and pay-per-view services.

The volume of our content that is made available through digital distributors is increasing as consumers continue to seek alternative ways to view
our content. These methods include the sale of our films through online retailers, such as iTunes, that allow for the video downloading of a digital copy of a film, and also the licensing of our films to Internet video streaming services, such as
Netflix.

Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenue primarily from the worldwide distribution of our produced and acquired
films for exhibition in movie theaters, the sale of our owned and acquired films on home entertainment formats, such as DVDs, and the licensing of our owned and acquired films. We also generate revenue from producing and licensing live stage plays
and distributing filmed entertainment produced by third parties.

Theme Parks

Our Theme Parks segment consists primarily of our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood. Universal Orlando includes two theme parks,
Universal Studios Florida and Universal’s Islands of Adventure, as well as CityWalk, a dining, retail and entertainment complex. Universal Orlando also features three on-site themed hotels in which we own a noncontrolling interest. Our
Universal theme park in Hollywood consists primarily of Universal Studios Hollywood. In addition, we receive fees from third parties that own and operate the Universal Studios Japan theme park in Osaka, Japan and the Universal Studios Singapore
theme park on Sentosa Island, Singapore for the licensing of the right to use the Universal Studio brand name and other intellectual property, and other services. We also own a water park, Wet ‘n Wild, located in Orlando.

Our Theme Parks segment licenses the right to use a substantial amount of intellectual property from third parties for its themed elements in
rides, attractions, retail outlets and merchandising.

Our Theme Parks segment generates revenue primarily from theme park attendance
and per capita spending at our Universal theme parks in Orlando and Hollywood, as well as from licensing and other fees. Per capita spending includes ticket price and in-park spending on food, beverages and merchandise.

Competition



All of our businesses operate in intensely competitive industries and compete with a growing number of companies that provide a broad range of
communication, entertainment and information products and services to consumers. Technological changes are further intensifying and complicating the competitive landscape and consumer behavior. For example, companies continue to emerge that offer
services and devices that enable digital distribution of movies, television shows and other video programming, and wireless services and devices continue to evolve. Moreover, newer services that distribute video programming are also beginning to
produce or acquire their own original content. These new alternative methods for the distribution, sale and viewing of content have been, and will likely continue to be, developed, and will continue to further increase the number of competitors we
face.





11Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Cable Communications

Competition for the cable services we offer primarily includes direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) providers and phone companies. These competitors offer features, pricing and packaging for cable services
that are comparable to the pricing and services we offer. Recently, new video services and devices have emerged that offer digital distribution of movies, television shows and other video programming, some of which charge a nominal or no fee for
access. The success of these new services could negatively impact the demand for our video services, including for our DVR, premium network, On Demand and streaming services. Moreover, wireless technology, such as 3G and 4G wireless broadband
services and Wi-Fi networks, may compete with our video and high-speed Internet services, and our voice services are facing increased competition as a result of wireless and Internet-based phone services.

Video Services

We compete with a
number of different sources that provide news, sports, information and entertainment programming to consumers, including:



•DBS providers that transmit satellite signals containing video programming and other information to receiving dishes located on the customer’s premises



•phone companies that have built and continue to build fiber-optic-based networks that provide cable services similar to ours, which now overlap a substantial
portion of our service areas



•other providers that build and operate wireline communications systems in the same communities that we serve, including those operating as franchised cable
operators



•satellite master antenna television (“SMATV”) systems that generally serve MDUs, office complexes and residential developments



•online services and devices that offer digital distribution of movies, television shows and other video programming

In recent years, Congress has enacted legislation and the FCC has adopted regulatory
policies intended to provide a favorable operating environment for existing competitors and for potential new competitors to our cable services. The FCC adopted rules favoring new investment by certain phone companies in networks capable of
distributing video programming and rules allocating and auctioning spectrum for new wireless services that may compete with our video service offerings. See “Legislation and Regulation” below for additional information.

Direct Broadcast Satellite Providers

According to recent government and industry reports, conventional medium-power and high-power satellites provide video programming to 34 million subscribers in the United States. DBS providers with high-power
satellites typically offer video services substantially similar to our video services. Two companies, DIRECTV and DISH Network, provide service to substantially all of these DBS subscribers. DBS providers also have marketing arrangements with
certain phone companies in which the DBS provider’s video services are sold together with the phone company’s high-speed Internet and phone services.

Phone Companies

Certain phone companies, in particular AT&T, Verizon and
CenturyLink, have built and are continuing to build wireline fiber-optic-based networks that provide video and high-speed Internet services in substantial portions of our service areas. These and other phone companies also may market video services
from DBS providers in certain areas where they provide only high-speed Internet and phone services.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K12




Other Wireline Providers

Federal law prohibits franchising authorities from unreasonably denying requests for additional franchises, and it permits franchising authorities
to operate cable systems. In addition to phone companies, various other companies, including those that traditionally have not provided cable services and have substantial financial resources, have obtained cable franchises and provide competing
cable services. These and other cable systems offer cable services in some areas where we hold franchises. We anticipate that facilities-based competitors may emerge in other franchise areas that we serve.

Satellite Master Antenna Television Systems

Our cable services also compete for customers with SMATV systems. SMATV system operators typically are not subject to regulation in the same manner as local, franchised cable system operators. SMATV systems offer
their subscribers both improved reception of local broadcast television stations and much of the programming offered by our cable systems. In addition, some SMATV system operators offer packages of video, Internet and phone services to residential
and business subscribers.

Other Video Competitors

Our cable services also may compete for customers with other companies, such as:



•online services and devices that offer digital distribution of video programming, which in some cases may be viewed on traditional televisions or, more
recently, on Internet-connected televisions



•local broadcast television stations that provide multiple channels of free over-the-air programming and newer services that provide programming from such
broadcasts online for a fee



•wireless and other emerging mobile technologies that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming online and through mobile apps available
for smartphones and tablets



•video rental services and home video products

Some of these competitors offer their services for free or charge a nominal fee for
access to their content.

High-Speed Internet Services

We compete with a number of companies offering Internet services, many of which have substantial resources, including:



•wireline phone companies



•Internet service providers



•wireless phone companies and other providers of wireless Internet service



•power companies



•municipal broadband networks

Digital subscriber line (“DSL”) technology allows Internet access to be
provided to customers over phone lines at data transmission speeds substantially greater than those of dial-up modems. Phone companies and certain other companies offer DSL service, and several of these companies have increased transmission speeds,
lowered prices or created bundled service packages. In addition, some phone companies, such as AT&T, Verizon and CenturyLink, have built and are continuing to build fiber-optic-based networks that allow them to





13Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




provide data transmission speeds that exceed those that can be provided with DSL technology and are now offering these higher-speed services in many of our service areas. The FCC has reduced the
obligations of phone companies to offer their broadband facilities on a wholesale or retail basis to competitors, and it has freed their DSL services of common carrier regulation.

Various wireless companies are offering Internet services using a variety of types of networks, including 3G and 4G wireless high-speed Internet
networks (which employ LTE, WiMAX and other technology standards) and Wi-Fi networks. Some of these services are similar to ours. These networks work with devices such as wireless data cards and wireless embedded devices, such as smartphones,
laptops, tablets and mobile wireless routers that connect to such embedded devices. In addition, a growing number of commercial venues, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi service. Numerous local governments are also
considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and other Internet access networks.

Voice Services

Our voice services compete against wireline phone companies, including competitive local exchange carriers (“CLECs”), wireless phone
service providers and other VoIP service providers, such as Vonage. Certain phone companies, such as AT&T and Verizon, have substantial capital and other resources, longstanding customer relationships, and extensive existing facilities and
network rights-of-way. A few CLECs also have existing local networks and significant financial resources.

Business Services

Our business services primarily compete with a variety of phone companies, including CLECs. These companies either operate their own network
infrastructure or rely on reselling another carrier’s network. We also compete with satellite operators who provide video offerings for businesses.

NBCUniversal Segments

Cable Networks and
Broadcast Television

Our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for
viewers’ attention and audience share with all forms of programming provided to viewers, including cable, broadcast and premium networks, local broadcast television stations, home entertainment, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, online
activities, including digital distribution services and websites that provide social networking and user-generated content, and other forms of entertainment, news and information.

Our cable networks, broadcast television networks and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the acquisition of programming and for
on-air and creative talent with other cable and broadcast networks and local television stations. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming, where the cost for such programming is significant.

Our cable networks compete with other cable networks for distribution by multichannel video providers. Our broadcast television networks compete
with the other broadcast networks in markets across the United States to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience.

In addition, our cable networks and broadcast television production operations compete with other production companies and creators of
content for the acquisition of story properties, creative, performing and technical personnel, and with distributors for their content and consumer interest in their content.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K14




Filmed Entertainment

Our filmed entertainment business competes for audiences for its films and other entertainment content with other major studios and, to a lesser extent, with independent film producers, as well as with alternative
forms of entertainment. Our competitive position primarily depends on the number of films we produce, their distribution and marketing success, and consumer response. Our filmed entertainment business also competes to obtain creative, performing and
technical talent, including writers, actors, directors and producers, as well as scripts for films. Our filmed entertainment business also competes with the other major studios and other producers of entertainment content for distribution of their
content through various exhibition and distribution outlets and on digital media platforms.

Theme Parks

Our theme parks business competes with other multi-park entertainment companies. We also compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism
and recreational activities. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our theme parks, we have invested and continue to invest in existing and new theme park attractions and infrastructure. The investment required to introduce new attractions in
our theme parks can be significant.

Advertising

Our cable communications business, cable networks, broadcast television networks, and owned local broadcast television stations compete for the sale of advertising time with other television networks and stations,
as well as with all other advertising platforms, such as radio stations, print media and websites.

Seasonality and Cyclicality



Each of our businesses is
subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Segment Operating Results – Seasonality and Cyclicality” for additional information.

Legislation and Regulation





15Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Cable Services



Video Services

Program Carriage

Must-Carry/Retransmission
Consent

Cable operators are currently required to carry, without compensation, the programming transmitted by most local commercial and
noncommercial broadcast television stations. Alternatively, local broadcast television stations may choose to negotiate with a cable operator for retransmission consent, under which the station gives up its must-carry right and instead seeks to
negotiate a carriage agreement with the cable operator. Such an agreement may involve payments to the station. We have recently begun paying certain local broadcast television stations in exchange for their required consent for the retransmission of
the stations’ broadcast programming to our video services customers and expect to continue to be subject to increasing demands for payment and other concessions from local broadcast television stations. For information on must-carry and
retransmission consent issues relating to our broadcast television business, see “Broadcast Television” below and refer to the “Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” discussion within that section.

Pricing and Packaging

The
Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the prices that cable operators may charge for basic video service, equipment and installation. These rules do not apply to cable systems that the FCC determines are subject to effective competition, or
where franchising authorities have chosen not to regulate rates. As a result, approximately 80% of our video services customers are not subject to rate regulation. From time to time, Congress and the FCC consider imposing new pricing or packaging
regulations, including proposals that would require cable operators to offer programming networks on an a la carte or themed-tier basis instead of, or in addition to, our current packaged offerings. Additionally, uniform pricing requirements under
the Communications Act may affect our ability to respond to increased competition through offers that aim to retain existing customers or regain those we have lost.

Leased Access

The Communications Act requires a cable system to make available up to
15% of its channel capacity for commercial leased access by third parties to provide programming that may compete with services offered directly by the cable operator. While we have not been required to devote significant channel capacity to





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K16




leased access to date, the FCC has adopted regulations that dramatically reduce the rates we can charge for leased access channels, although their implementation has been stayed by a federal
court pending the outcome of a challenge brought by us and other cable operators and also has been blocked by the Office of Management and Budget. If implemented, these regulations could adversely affect our business by significantly increasing the
number of cable system channels occupied by leased access users and by significantly increasing the administrative burdens and costs associated with complying with such regulations.

Cable Equipment

Federal and state legislators and regulators also are considering proposals to impose energy efficiency requirements on our
set-top boxes and certain network equipment, although we, other multichannel video providers and equipment manufacturers recently entered into a voluntary agreement taking steps to improve the energy efficiency of set-top boxes. We cannot predict
what, if any, effect this agreement will have on potential energy efficiency regulations. In addition, the NBCUniversal Order requires us to fulfill commitments designed to improve the parental control tools and information available to parents,
including providing navigation and blocking capabilities for certain set-top boxes.

MDUs and Inside Wiring

FCC regulations prohibit exclusive video service access agreements between cable operators and MDUs or other private residential real estate
developments, as well as our enforcement of exclusivity provisions in any of our pre-existing access agreements. FCC regulations also facilitate competitors’ access to the cable wiring inside such properties.

Pole Attachments

The
Communications Act permits the FCC to regulate the rates that pole-owning utility companies (with the exception of municipal utilities and rural cooperatives) charge cable systems for attachments to their poles. States are permitted to preempt FCC
jurisdiction and regulate the terms of attachments themselves, and many states in which we operate have done so. Most of these states have generally followed the FCC’s pole attachment rate standards. Utility companies initiated a proceeding in
2009 at the FCC seeking to apply the telecommunications services pole rate formula to all pole attachments over which cable operators provide phone services using interconnected VoIP technology, which is the type of technology we use for our voice
services. The pole attachment rates applicable to telecommunications services were significantly higher than the rates we currently pay. In June 2011, the FCC adopted a pole rate formula that reduces the rates for telecommunications service pole
attachments to levels that are at or near the rates for cable attachments, but





17Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




utility companies are able to rebut certain presumptions in the new formula, and it is expected that most will attempt to do so. The FCC ruling is under review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the D.C. Circuit.

Vertical Ownership Limit

The FCC is assessing whether to revise a limit on the number of affiliated programming channels that a cable operator may carry on a cable system. The FCC’s previous limit of 40% of the first 75 channels
carried on a cable system was struck down by a federal appellate court in 2001, although the FCC continues to enforce it. The FCC previously clarified that, under the 40% limit, cable systems with 75 or more channels must carry at least 45
unaffiliated channels. Our cable systems routinely carry more than 45 unaffiliated channels, and we currently comply with the 40% limit. Compliance could become more difficult depending on what regulations, if any, the FCC adopts.

Franchising

Cable operators
generally operate their cable systems under nonexclusive franchises granted by local or state franchising authorities. While the terms and conditions of franchises vary materially from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, franchises typically last for a
fixed term, obligate the franchisee to pay franchise fees and meet service quality, customer service and other requirements, and are terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions. The Communications Act permits franchising
authorities to establish reasonable requirements for public, educational and governmental access (“PEG”) programming, and some of our franchises require substantial channel capacity and financial support for this programming. The
NBCUniversal Order contains various PEG-related conditions, including a requirement that we do not migrate PEG channels to digital delivery on our cable system until the system has converted to all-digital distribution or until the government entity
that is responsible for the system’s PEG operations expressly agrees. The Communications Act also contains provisions governing the franchising process, including, among other things, renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees
against arbitrary denials of renewal. We believe that our franchise renewal prospects generally are favorable.

FCC regulations
establish franchising processes and obligations for new entrants that are different from those applicable to existing providers. For example, these regulations limit the range of financial, construction and other commitments that franchising
authorities can request of new entrants and preempt certain local “level playing field” franchising requirements. In addition, approximately half of the states in which we operate have enacted legislation to provide statewide franchising
or to simplify local franchising requirements for new entrants. Some of these statutes also allow new entrants to operate on more favorable terms than our current operations, for instance by not requiring that the new entrant provide service to all
parts of the franchise area or permitting the new entrant to designate only those portions it wishes to serve. Certain of these statutes allow incumbent cable operators to opt into the new state franchise immediately or later when a competing state
franchise has been issued for the incumbent cable operator’s franchise area. However, even in those states, the incumbent cable operators often are required to retain certain franchise obligations that are more burdensome than the new
entrant’s state franchise.

Copyright Regulation

In exchange for filing reports and contributing a percentage of revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool, cable operators can obtain blanket permission to retransmit copyrighted material contained in broadcast
signals. The possible modification or elimination of this copyright license is the subject of ongoing legislative and administrative review. The Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 (“STELA”) made revisions to a cable
operator’s compulsory copyright license to remove a number of uncertainties regarding the license’s operation. In particular, STELA clarifies that, in exchange for certain additional payments, cable operators can limit the royalty
calculation associated with retransmission of an out-of-market broadcast station to those cable subscribers who actually receive the out-of market station. The new law also clarifies that





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K18




cable operators must pay additional royalty fees for each digital multicast programming stream from an out-of market broadcast station they retransmit that does not duplicate the content of the
station’s primary stream. It also establishes an audit mechanism for copyright owners to review a cable operator’s copyright royalty reporting practices, which the Copyright Office has issued proposals to implement. As required by STELA,
the Copyright Office, the GAO and the FCC all issued reports to Congress in 2011 that generally supported an eventual phaseout of the compulsory licenses, although they also acknowledged the potential adverse impact on cable and satellite
subscribers and the absence of any clear marketplace alternative to the compulsory licenses. If adopted, a phaseout plan could adversely affect our ability to obtain broadcast station programming and substantially increase our programming costs.

High-Speed Internet Services

We
provide high-speed Internet services over our cable distribution system. In 2002, the FCC ruled that high-speed Internet services such as ours are interstate information services that are not subject to regulation as a telecommunications service
under federal law or to state or local utility regulation. However, our high-speed Internet services are subject to a number of regulatory obligations, including compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act
(“CALEA”) requirement that high-speed Internet service providers implement certain network capabilities to assist law enforcement in conducting surveillance of persons suspected of criminal activity.

In addition, the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree include various conditions and
commitments requiring us to expand our broadband service areas, to continue to offer all of our high-speed Internet service speed tiers on a stand-alone basis at reasonable market-based prices, to offer a new standalone 6 Mbps downstream tier (known
as the performance starter tier) at $49.95 per month for three years, to maintain a high-speed Internet service of at least 12 Mbps downstream across most of our footprint, and to not discriminate in how we treat “specialized services”
(defined as services we provide over the same last-mile facilities as our high-speed Internet service, but not including our high-speed Internet service, video services or voice services). We have taken a number of steps to comply with these
conditions. In 2012, after an FCC inquiry into whether we failed to comply with the stand-alone broadband condition, we entered into a consent decree with the FCC to extend our offering of the performance starter tier for one additional year and to
reinforce the promotion of our stand-alone broadband offerings, including training our sales representatives with respect to these offerings.





19Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




A federal program known as the Universal Service program generally requires telecommunications service
providers to collect and pay a fee based on revenue from their services into a fund used to subsidize the provision of telecommunications services in high-cost areas and Internet and telecommunications services to schools, libraries and certain
health care providers. The FCC issued an order in November 2011 that changed the way that a majority of Universal Service funds are allocated and began implementing that order in 2012. By focusing on broadband and wireless deployment, and moving
away from supporting traditional telephone service, the changes could assist some of our competitors in more effectively competing with our service offerings, while others could receive less funding. The actual impact of the changes is not yet
known. The FCC’s ruling is under review in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.

In addition, in November 2011, the FCC
initiated a further rulemaking on IP interconnection issues, which may have an impact on Internet interconnection arrangements. We have a number of peering and transit arrangements with other network operators, and these arrangements historically
have not been regulated by the FCC. We cannot predict what, if any, proposals might be adopted or what effect they might have on our business.

In addition, Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer privacy, consumer protection, copyright protection, defamation liability,
taxation, obscenity and unsolicited commercial email. State and local governments also have adopted Internet-related regulations. Furthermore, Congress, the FCC, and certain state and local governments are considering proposals to impose customer
service, quality of service, expanded copyright protection requirements, taxation, child safety, privacy and standard pricing regulations on high-speed Internet service providers. It is uncertain whether any of these proposals will be adopted. The
adoption of new laws or the application of existing laws to the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our high-speed Internet business.

Voice Services

We provide voice services by
using interconnected VoIP technology. The FCC has adopted a number of regulations for providers of nontraditional voice services such as ours, including regulations relating to customer proprietary network information, local number portability
duties and benefits, disability access, E911, law enforcement assistance (CALEA), outage reporting, Universal Service Fund contribution obligations, and certain regulatory filing requirements, but has not yet ruled on whether interconnected VoIP
service should be classified as an “information service” or a “telecommunications service” under the Communications Act. The classification determination is important because telecommunications services are still regulated more
pervasively than information services. The regulatory environment for our voice services therefore remains uncertain at both the federal and the state levels. Until the FCC definitively classifies interconnected VoIP service, state regulatory
commissions and legislatures may continue to investigate imposing regulatory requirements on our voice services. For example, state commissions in Vermont and New Hampshire have issued orders finding that our voice services qualify as
telecommunications services subject to state regulation, although we have challenged both orders in court. In some cases, state legislation precludes state regulation of VoIP-based services notwithstanding how they are classified.

Because the FCC has not determined the appropriate classification of our voice services, the precise scope of interconnection regulations
applicable to us as a provider of nontraditional voice services is not clear. In light of this uncertainty, providers of nontraditional voice services typically either secure CLEC authorization or obtain interconnection to traditional wireline phone
company networks by contracting with an existing CLEC, whose right, as a telecommunications carrier, to request and obtain interconnection with the traditional wireline phone companies is set forth in the Communications Act. We have arranged for
such interconnection rights through our affiliated CLECs. While some traditional wireline phone companies have challenged our





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K20




right to interconnect directly with them, we have prevailed in all of these challenges, and no such challenges are currently pending. That said, if a regulatory or judicial authority were to deny
our ability to interconnect through one of our CLECs, our ability to provide voice services and compete in the area in question would be negatively impacted. In December 2012, the FCC sought comment on two petitions that raise issues concerning the
interconnection obligations for IP voice providers, and it also formed a task force to coordinate the FCC’s efforts on issues related to the transition of networks from circuit-switched to packet-switched technology, including the issue of IP
interconnection. We cannot predict what, if any, proposals might be adopted or what effect they might have on our business. In November 2011, the FCC issued an order clarifying the entire intercarrier compensation regime, which governs the
arrangements by which telecommunications carriers compensate one another for exchanged traffic, whether it be for local, intrastate or interstate traffic, or VoIP. The FCC order affirmed the right of CLECs to collect intercarrier compensation when
providing interconnection for VoIP providers. However, the FCC’s order is currently under appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.

Other Cable Services Regulations

State and Local Taxes

Some states and localities have imposed or are considering imposing new or additional taxes or fees on the cable services we offer, or imposing
adverse methodologies by which taxes or fees are computed. These include combined reporting or other changes to general business taxes, central assessments for property tax, and taxes and fees on video, high-speed Internet and voice services. We and
other cable industry members are challenging certain of these taxes through administrative and court proceedings. In addition, in some situations our DBS competitors and other competitors that deliver their services over a high-speed Internet
connection do not face similar state tax and fee burdens. Congress has also considered, and may consider again, proposals to bar states from imposing taxes on DBS providers that are equivalent to the taxes or fees that we pay.

Cable Networks



Program Access

The FCC launched a rulemaking in 2007 to consider whether companies that own multiple cable networks should be required to make each of their
networks available to multichannel video providers on a stand-alone or “unbundled” basis when negotiating distribution agreements, although it has not further acted on that





21Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




rulemaking. We currently offer our cable networks both on a bundled and, when requested, on a stand-alone basis. Increased regulatory requirements imposed on the manner in which we negotiate
programming distribution agreements with multichannel video providers may adversely affect our cable networks business.

Under the terms
of the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, multichannel video providers can invoke commercial arbitration for program access pursuant to conditions adopted in the NBCUniversal Order against our cable networks and broadcast television
networks, including our regional sports networks. In addition, under the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable network, broadcast television and filmed entertainment programming available to
bona fide online video distributors under certain conditions, and they may invoke commercial arbitration pursuant to conditions adopted in the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree to resolve disputes regarding the availability of, and
the terms and conditions of access to, such programming. For further discussion of these conditions, see “Broadcast Television” below and refer to the “Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent” and “Internet Distribution”
discussions within that section.

Children’s Programming

The Children’s Television Act (“CTA”) and FCC regulations limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on cable networks, broadcast networks and broadcast television stations
during programming originally produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children under 13 years of age. FCC regulations also limit the display during children’s programming on cable or broadcast of Internet addresses of websites that
contain or link to commercial material or that use program characters to sell products. Similarly, FCC regulations prohibit the display of commercials during children’s programming on cable or broadcast networks that use program characters to
sell products when the commercial is adjacent to children’s programming in which the characters appear. The FCC is currently considering whether to prohibit interactive advertising during children’s television programming. The NBCUniversal
Order includes certain commitments and conditions related to children’s television and advertising directed at children, including commitments that we will not insert interactive advertising into children’s television programming in any of
the advertising spots we control, either as a multichannel video provider or as the programmer, and that we will provide at least $15 million worth of public service announcements on childhood obesity, FDA nutritional guidelines, digital literacy
and parental controls per year until 2016.

Broadcast Television



Licensing

The Communications Act permits the operation of local broadcast television stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a
finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The FCC grants broadcast television station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms.
Under the Communications Act, broadcast television licenses may be granted for a maximum term of eight years. Generally, the FCC renews broadcast licenses upon finding that the television station has served the public interest, convenience and
necessity; there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC regulations; and there have been no violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC regulations, which, taken together, indicate a pattern
of abuse.

In addition, CTA and FCC regulations require that the FCC consider in its review of broadcast television station license
renewals whether the station has served the educational and informational (“E/I”) needs of children. Under the FCC’s regulations, a station licensee will be deemed to have met its obligation to serve the E/I needs of children if it
has broadcast on its main program stream a minimum of three hours per week of programming that has a significant purpose of serving the E/I needs of children under 17 years of age. For broadcast television stations that multicast, FCC regulations
include a similar standard whereby the amount





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K22




of E/I programming deemed to meet the station’s E/I obligation increases in proportion to the amount of free multicast programming aired. Under the NBCUniversal Order, we have committed to
provide an additional hour of E/I programming per week on either the primary or multicast streams of our owned NBC local broadcast television stations and on the primary signal of our owned Telemundo local broadcast television stations. The FCC is
considering whether the requirements for E/I programming have been effective in promoting the availability of educational content for children on broadcast television, and there can be no assurance that the FCC will not impose more stringent
requirements.

Under the NBCUniversal Order, we have committed to expand local news and information programming on our owned local
television stations and to enter into cooperative arrangements with locally focused nonprofit news organizations in certain markets.

Renewal applications are pending for a number of our broadcast television station licenses. The FCC may grant any license renewal application with
or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted. A station’s authority to operate is automatically extended while a renewal application is on file and under review. Four pending applications have
been formally opposed by third parties and other applications are pending due to unresolved complaints of alleged indecency in the stations’ programming. The Communications Act also requires prior FCC approval for any sale of a broadcast
station license, whether through the assignment of the license and related assets from one company to another or the transfer of control of the stock or other equity of a company holding an FCC license. Third parties may oppose such applications.
The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances. Although we have received such renewals and approvals in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary renewals or that approvals
in the future will contain acceptable FCC license conditions.

Ownership Limits

FCC regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have “attributable interests” above specific levels in local television
stations, as well as other specified mass media entities, such as limits on the cross-ownership of broadcast stations and newspapers in the same market. The FCC, by law, must review the ownership regulations detailed below once every four years, and
the most recent review was initiated in December 2011 (“2011 Media Ownership Notice”). We cannot predict when the FCC’s current review will be completed or whether or how any of these regulations will change.

Local Television Ownership

Under
the FCC’s local television ownership rule, a licensee may own up to two broadcast television stations in the same DMA, as long as at least one of the two stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market based on audience share
as of the date an application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the FCC and at least eight independently owned and operating full-power broadcast television stations remain in the market following the acquisition. Further, without regard
to the number of remaining independently-owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of more than one television station within the same DMA so long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap. The 2011 Media
Ownership Notice proposes minor modifications to the local television ownership rule. It also raises questions regarding whether local news-sharing agreements, shared services agreements, and joint sales agreements should count toward the FCC’s
ownership limitations.

National Television Ownership

The Communications Act and FCC regulations limit the number of television stations one entity may own or control nationally. Under the rule, no entity may have an attributable interest in broadcast television
stations that reach, in the aggregate, more than 39% of all U.S. television households. Our owned local television station reach does not exceed this limit.





23Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Foreign Ownership

The Communications Act generally limits foreign ownership in a broadcast station to 20% direct ownership and 25% indirect ownership (i.e., through one or more subsidiaries), although the limit on indirect ownership
can be waived if the FCC finds it to be in the public interest. These limits have been held to apply to both voting control and equity, as well as to ownership by any form of entity, including corporations, partnerships and limited liability
companies.

Dual Network Rule

The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major broadcast television networks, ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC, from being under common ownership or control with another of the four.

Must-Carry/Retransmission Consent

Every
three years, each commercial television station must elect for each cable system in its DMA either must-carry or retransmission consent. Federal law and FCC regulations also establish a must-carry/retransmission consent election regime for carriage
of commercial television stations by satellite providers. For the period beginning on January 1, 2012 and ending on December 31, 2014, all of the NBC network and Telemundo network owned local television stations elected retransmission
consent.

Internet Distribution

Under the NBCUniversal Order and NBCUniversal Consent Decree, we are required to make certain of our cable network, broadcast
television and filmed entertainment programming available to bona fide online video distributors under certain conditions, and they may invoke commercial arbitration to resolve disputes regarding the availability, and the terms and conditions of
access to, such programming. In addition, we are required to continue distributing programming via nbc.com that is generally equivalent to the programming that we distributed via nbc.com as of January 1, 2011, on generally equivalent terms and
conditions, so long as at least one of the other major broadcast networks continues to distribute some programming in a similar fashion. We are one of three broadcast network owners of Hulu, but were required to relinquish all voting rights and our
board seat in Hulu in connection with the NBCUniversal transaction. If the two other broadcast network owners of Hulu renew their agreements, we must either continue to provide content to Hulu on the terms in place as of January 2011 or enter into
agreements on substantially the same terms as the broadcast network that provides the most economically favorable terms to Hulu.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K24




Broadcast Spectrum

In February 2012, Congress authorized the FCC to conduct an incentive auction to reassign a portion of the broadcast spectrum for mobile broadband use. Under the statute, broadcasters may voluntarily relinquish
some or all of their spectrum rights in exchange for a share of the proceeds of the FCC’s auction of the spectrum to mobile broadband providers. Broadcasters that do not voluntarily relinquish their spectrum rights may still be affected as part
of the process of clearing and repacking the spectrum for future mobile use, but Congress required the FCC to make “all reasonable efforts” to preserve broadcasters’ over-the-air coverage area and population served, and to reimburse
those broadcasters’ reasonable costs. The FCC currently is conducting a proceeding to implement this statute, including establishing processes for how the spectrum will be repacked and how the broadcasters will be reimbursed for relocation
costs. We cannot predict whether or how any such regulations might affect our businesses.

Indecency

FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material on television stations at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of
6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk violating this prohibition because the vagueness of the relevant FCC definitions makes it difficult to apply. Moreover, the FCC has in some instances imposed separate fines for each allegedly indecent
“utterance,” in contrast with its previous policy that had generally considered all indecent words or phrases within a given program as constituting a single violation. The maximum penalty for broadcasting indecent or profane programming
is $325,000 per indecent or profane utterance.

Indecency regulation has been the subject of ongoing court review, regarding both the
FCC’s “fleeting expletives” policy and the FCC’s definition of what constitutes indecent material. In June 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the FCC’s assessment of indecency fines against ABC and FOX on the grounds
that the agency failed to provide fair notice of its standards and enforcement policy. However, the Court declined to rule on the constitutionality of the FCC’s indecency policy under the First Amendment. This ruling may result in the
FCC’s clarification of its policy and future indecency-related enforcement actions. From time to time, we have received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on
our owned local television stations included indecent or profane material. Increased content regulation, particularly if it is vague and difficult to apply, could have an adverse effect on our broadcast television business.

Sponsorship Identification

Federal
legislation and FCC regulations provide that whenever a broadcast station transmits any programming for which it has received money, service or other valuable consideration, it must provide an accurate on-air identification of the sponsor of the
programming. In 2008, the FCC commenced a proceeding to examine whether “embedded advertising,” such as product placements and product integration, in broadcast programming should be subject to stricter disclosure requirements and whether
the sponsorship identification regulations should be extended to cable networks, although the FCC has taken no action.

International Regulation

International regulation of television broadcasting varies widely according to jurisdiction and includes the regulation of
programming and advertising. For example, the European Union (“E.U.”) establishes minimum levels of regulation across all E.U. member states focused on content and advertising, which also extends to nonlinear television services, although
E.U. countries are free to impose stricter regulation in certain areas.

Filmed Entertainment



Our filmed entertainment business is
subject to the provisions of “trade practice laws” in effect in 25 states and Puerto Rico relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. These laws substantially restrict the





25Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to
motion picture distributors by exhibitors. Further, under various consent judgments, federal and state antitrust laws and state unfair competition laws, motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on trade practices in the United
States, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis. The Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) has called for stronger industry safeguards applicable to the marketing of violent
movies to children.

In countries outside the United States, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and
regulations that may affect our ability to distribute and license motion picture and television products, as well as consumer merchandise products, including film screen quotas, television quotas, regulation of content, regulated contract terms,
product safety and labeling requirements, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of U.S. products. The ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is
regulated under various international agreements.

Theme Parks



Our theme parks are subject to various
regulations, including laws and regulations regarding environmental protection, privacy and data protection, consumer product safety and theme park operations, such as health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and liquor licenses.

Other Areas of Regulation



Intellectual Property

Copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and Internet/domain laws of the United States and other countries help protect our
intellectual property rights. In particular, piracy of programming and films through unauthorized distribution of counterfeit DVDs, peer-to-peer file sharing and other platforms presents challenges for our cable networks, broadcast television and
filmed entertainment businesses. The unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of copyrighted material over the Internet or through other methods of distribution, such as through devices, software or websites that allow the reproduction,
viewing, sharing and/or downloading of content by either ignoring or interfering with the content’s security features and copyrighted status, interferes with the market for copyrighted works and disrupts our ability to exploit our content. The
extent of copyright protection and the use of technological protections, such as encryption, are controversial. Modifications to existing laws that weaken these protections could have an adverse effect on our ability to license and sell our
programming.

While many legal protections exist to combat piracy, laws in the United States and internationally continue to evolve, as
do technologies used to evade these laws. We have actively engaged in the enforcement of our intellectual property rights and likely will continue to expend substantial resources to protect our content. The repeal of laws intended to combat piracy
and protect intellectual property or weakening of such laws or enforcement in the United States or internationally, or a failure of existing laws to adapt to new technologies, could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our
intellectual property rights, which could negatively impact their value and further increase the costs of enforcing our rights.

Copyright laws also require that we pay standard industry licensing fees for the public performance of music in the programs we distribute, such as
local advertising and local origination programming on our cable systems, as well as in the content we create. The fees we pay to music performance rights organizations are typically renegotiated when we renew licenses with those organizations, and
we cannot predict with certainty what those fees will be in the future or if disputes will arise over them.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K26




Privacy and Security Regulation

The Communications Act generally restricts the nonconsensual collection and disclosure to third parties of cable customers’ personally identifiable information by cable operators. There are exceptions that
permit such collection and disclosure for rendering service, conducting legitimate business activities related to the service, and responding to legal requests. The Communications Act and FCC regulations also provide privacy protections for customer
proprietary network information related to our voice services. Several states and numerous local jurisdictions have enacted privacy laws or franchise privacy provisions that apply to cable services.

We are also subject to state and federal regulations and laws regarding information security. Most of these regulations and laws apply to customer
information that could be used to commit identity theft. Substantially all of the U.S. states and the District of Columbia have enacted security breach notification laws. These laws generally require that a business give notice to its customers
whose financial account information has been disclosed because of a security breach. In addition, the FTC is applying the “red flag rules,” which are designed to detect the warning signs of identity theft, in the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act of 2003 to both financial institutions and creditors; we have established a compliance program as required under these rules. Legislation also has been introduced in Congress that would impose new cybersecurity requirements on some
critical networks and operations, but the scope of such requirements, if adopted, has not yet been defined. The White House is considering a similar Executive Order.

We are also subject to state and federal “do not call” laws regarding telemarketing and state and federal laws regarding unsolicited commercial emails. Additional and more restrictive requirements may be
imposed if and to the extent that state or local authorities establish their own privacy or security standards or if Congress enacts new privacy or security legislation.

Advertising Restrictions

Legislation has been introduced and reports from various government
agencies have been issued from time to time urging that restrictions be placed on advertisements for particular products or services, including prescription drugs and the marketing of food or violent entertainment to children. We are unable to
predict whether such reports will result in legislative proposals, whether legislative proposals may be adopted, or, if adopted, what impact they will have on our businesses.





27Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K




Environmental Matters

Certain of our business operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations and involve air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the use, disposal and cleanup of toxic and hazardous substances. Any
failure to comply with environmental requirements could result in monetary fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims or other costs or liabilities. We have been responsible for the cleanup of environmental contamination at some of
NBCUniversal’s current and former facilities and at off-site waste disposal locations, although our share of the cost of such cleanups to date has not been material. In addition, the California Attorney General and the Alameda County,
California District Attorney are investigating whether certain of our waste disposal policies, procedures and practices are in violation of the California Business and Professions Code and the California Health and Safety Code. These entities have
not specified the relief that may be sought. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Part I for more information.

Environmental
requirements have become more stringent over time, and pending or proposed new regulations could impact our operations or costs. For example, climate change regulation, such as proposed greenhouse gas emissions limits or cap and trade programs,
could result in an increase in the cost of electricity, which is a significant component of our operational costs at some locations. We are unable to accurately predict how these requirements might be changed in the future and how any such changes
might affect our businesses.

Disabilities Access

Our businesses are subject to a number of requirements related to ensuring that our services are accessible to individuals with disabilities. Among other things, our voice services and email services must be
accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities; we must provide additional narrations of key visual elements (referred to as “video description”) on certain of our video services and programming; and we must include closed
captioning on certain video programming delivered to our customers. Congress has directed the FCC to adopt further accessibility requirements for multichannel video providers, broadcasters and other entities over the next year, and we cannot predict
what impact those further requirements will have on our businesses.

Other FCC Regulations

The FCC actively regulates other aspects of our businesses, including the mandatory blackout of syndicated, network and sports programming; customer
service standards; loudness of commercial advertisements; political advertising; Emergency Alert System requirements; equal employment opportunity; lottery programming; recordkeeping and public file access requirements; telemarketing; technical
standards relating to operation of the cable systems and television stations; and regulatory fees. We are unable to predict how these regulations might be changed in the future and how any such changes might affect our businesses. In addition, while
we believe that we are in substantial compliance with FCC regulations, we are occasionally subject to enforcement actions at the FCC, which can result in our having to pay fines to the agency or being subject to other sanctions.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, we have
approximately 129,000 full-time and part-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 83,000 were associated with our Cable Communications business and the remainder were associated with our NBCUniversal and other businesses. We also use
freelance and temporary employees in the normal course of our business.





Comcast 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K28




Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking information so that investors can better understand a company’s future prospects and make informed investment decisions. In this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, we state our beliefs of future events and of our future financial performance, including as a result of the NBCUniversal transaction. In some cases, you can identify these so-called “forward-looking statements” by words
such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential,” or “continue,” or the negative of these words, and other comparable words. You should
be aware that these statements are only our predictions. In evaluating these statements, you should consider various factors, including the risks and uncertainties listed in “Risk Factors” and in other reports we file with the SEC.

Additionally, we operate in a highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing environment. The environment is affected by
government regulation; economic, strategic, political and social conditions; consumer response to new and existing products and services; technological developments; and, particularly in view of new technologies, the ability to develop and protect
intellectual property rights. Our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements or as a result of any of such factors, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We undertake
no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.

