Item 1.Business



This discussion of
the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified
by reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item
7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference
in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin has identified five reportable segments for external reporting purposes: Auto/Mobile,
Aviation, Marine, Outdoor and Fitness. There are three operating segments (Auto PND, Auto OEM and Mobile) that are not reported
separately but are aggregated within the Auto/Mobile reportable segment. Each operating segment is individually reviewed and evaluated
by our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment individually. The
segment and geographic information included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under Note 8
is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1.



Garmin was incorporated
in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin
Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate
a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company
of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation
of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).
Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common
share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (CHF)
per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.



Garmin’s annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by
Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC
maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information
regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.








The reference to Garmin’s
website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information
should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K.



Company Overview



For 25 years, Garmin
Ltd. and subsidiaries (together, the “Company”) has pioneered new Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation and wireless
devices and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin serves five primary business units,
including auto/mobile, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor recreation. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures, markets and
distributes a diverse family of hand-held, wearable, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications,
sensor-based and information products.



Overview of the Global Positioning System



The Global Positioning
System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite
technology. The system consists of numerous constellations of orbiting satellites. Access to the systems is provided free of charge.



Garmin utilizes a variety
of global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) including, but not limited to:

·The
                                         satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations maintained and operated by
                                         the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment
                                         program to ensure continuous global system coverage.

·Japan’s
                                         MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) which achieved initial operating capability
                                         for en route, terminal and approach navigation for aviation on September 27, 2007.

·The
                                         European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL)
                                         service which achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal, and approach
                                         navigation on March 2, 2011.

·The
                                         Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), a space-based satellite navigation system
                                         operated by the Russian Federation, consisting of 24 satellites and providing world-wide
                                         coverage. In certain urban canyon or restricted sky visibility situations, the use of
                                         both GPS and GLONASS satellites to produce a navigation fix may result in improved accuracy.



The accuracy and utility
of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS)
comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United
States and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute,
terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility
of WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications.



Recent Developments in the Company’s
Business



Since the inception
of its business, Garmin has delivered over 141 million products, which includes the delivery of more than 15 million products
during 2014.



Automotive/Mobile
Product Introductions



In January 2014 Garmin
announced the 2014 line of nüvi®personal navigation devices. The nüvi2798 LMT combines a 7” display with
a wireless backup camera allowing drivers to easily spot vehicles, pedestrians, and other obstructions as they back up their vehicle.
In addition, the 2014 line of Essential nüvis features a 5-6” display as well as lifetime traffic avoidance.








In April 2014 Garmin
announced the zūmo®590LM, which features a 5” touch screen display that is glove-friendly, fuel-resistant, and
sunlight-readable. The zūmo 590LM includes a MP3 player, advanced navigation features, and infotainment options to keep riders
connected on the road.



In August 2014 Garmin
announced the fleet™ 660 and 670, the first Android™-based fleet navigators allowing for unique customizations. The
new devices connect to and control a wide range of external devices over Wi-Fi®, Bluetooth®, or serial cable. The fleet
660 and 670 are optimized for in-cab use with dust-proof design, high-sensitivity GPS, extra loud speaker, and a sunlight readable,
6” capacitive touch screen while providing the latest navigation technology from Garmin.



Outdoor Product
Introductions



In January 2014 Garmin
announced GPSMAP®64, which brings a dual GPS and GLONASS receiver with a quad helix antenna for superior reception, preloaded
geocaches and smartphone connectivity for LiveTrack and Smart Notification to a product line already popular with customers.



Garmin expanded its
line of products for golfers in 2014 with the introduction of the Approach®G7 and G8 handhelds and the Approach S6 watch.
The Approach G7 and G8 handhelds include new measurement features such as PlaysLike Distance, which shows adjusted range for uphill
and downhill shots, Club Advice, which remembers how far users hit each club and makes recommendations based on shot distances,
Big Numbers mode which allows for easy viewing, and offers Smart Notification technology allowing users to receive emails, texts,
and call alerts. The Approach S6 watch comes with first-of-its-kind swing metrics and training tools right on a golfer’s
wrist. SwingTempo, TempoTrainer and SwingStrength™ can be used to improve golfers’ swing consistency and synchronization,
and the S6 is the first golf watch to offer full CourseView maps with GreenView, Touch Targeting, and PinPointer™ on a high-res
color touchscreen. The S6 is the slimmest, lightest golf watch while still delivering 20 weeks of battery life in watch mode or
10 hours in GPS mode and is equipped with Smart Notification technology.



In February 2014,
Garmin announced fēnix™ 2, the first Garmin wearable device to include advanced multi-sport features within the rugged
form factor of an altimeter, barometer, compass (ABC) watch. Whether used for running, climbing, riding, hiking, paddling, skiing,
or swimming the fēnix 2 allows the user to easily switch between feature sets and provides real-time feedback on their progress.
The fēnix 2 provides advanced running dynamics, dedicated training modes, and an altimeter, barometer, and a 3-axis compass,
providing navigation functionalities and guidance off the beaten path.



In June 2014 Garmin
announced two new GPS-enabled collars, the TT 15 and T 5, for its industry-leading Astro®and Alpha®dog tracking and
training systems. The new TT 15 dog device allows you to track and train sporting dogs up to nine miles away and is utilizing
both GPS and GLONASS satellite technology. The TT 15 also adds a training option, to match individual dogs’ temperament
and has a battery life of 24 to 48 hours. The T 5 is a tracking-only version with the same GPS and GLONASS compatibility without
the stimulation capability.



Fitness
Product Introductions



In 2014 Garmin announced
the vívo family of products with the introduction of the Garmin vívofit™ and vívoki™ expanding
to the vívosmart™. The vívofit fitness band sets a personalized daily goal that automatically adjusts, shows
steps, calories, goal countdown, distance, and time of day. Vívofit has over one year battery life, is water-resistant
(50m), has interchangeable colored bands, and is compatible with ANT+™ heart rate monitors. Vívokí seamlessly
integrates into corporate wellness and provides accountability for participants. The vívoki records steps, distance, calories
and intensity of exercise. Five LED lights indicate the user’s progress toward a personalized daily goal. The vívosmart
adds connectivity to health and wellness goals. Vívosmart features a touchscreen curved band that remains discreet on users’
wrists with a hidden OLED display that comes to life to show incoming notifications. It has a 5 ATM water rating and battery life
of up to seven days. Vívosmart automatically syncs with the Garmin Connect™ Mobile app and provides notifications
of incoming text, email, call, calendar reminders, and has an added vibration alert.








Garmin expanded its
line of Forerunner®running watches in 2014 with the introduction of the Forerunner 920XT and Forerunner 15. The Forerunner
920XT provides a multisport watch with advanced running dynamics including VO2 max estimate, live tracking, and smart notifications
while the Forerunner 15 is an affordable GPS running watch with daily activity tracking and heart rate compatibility.



Garmin also expanded
its line of Edge®cycling computers during 2014 with the introduction Edge 1000®, a top of the line cycling computer for
competing, connecting, and navigating. The Edge 1000 includes a large high-resolution color touch screen display, advanced smartphone
connectivity, and automatic sync functionality. In August 2014 Garmin announced the availability of Vector™S, an affordable
option for cyclists to receive the benefits of tracking power in a single-sensing power meter.



Marine Product
Introductions



In April 2014 Garmin announced
the GNX™ marine instruments GNX 20 and GNX 21. The GNX 20 and GNX 21 both have 4”, glass-bonded, monochrome displays
that show over 50 marine and vessel parameters including depth, speed, wind, and navigational data. The GNX 20 and GNX 21 allow
the screen layout to be configured to the user’s preferred settings and have optimized power consumption using only 350nW
during the day and 400mW at night.



In June 2014 Garmin completed
the acquisition of Fusion®Electronics bringing with it, the 700 Series, which allows boaters to connect and control their
audio through select marine multifunction displays (MFDs), and select multi-zone audio configuration specific to their vessels.



In
October 2014 Garmin announced the next generation of open-array digital radars with the GMR™ 424, 624/626 and 1224/1226
xHD2. The xHD2 series is significantly quieter and includes a dedicated Bird Mode allowing boaters to locate flocks of birds and
a corresponding congregation of fish. In addition dual radar support is introduced creating more flexibility to view different
ranges on independent multifunction displays (MFD), chartplotters and combination units. Also in October 2014 Garmin announced
a new line of echoMAP™ combination chartplotters that integrates scanning sonar capabilities without the need of an additional
sounder black box. The new echoMAP is equipped with a built-in, high sensitivity 5Hz GPS antenna, providing updated location and
headings five times per second and has built-in SideVü technology, granting the ability to see what’s located on both
sides of the boat.





Aviation Product
Introductions and Program Certifications



In January 2014 Garmin introducedthe
GDL 39 3D, a portable ADS-B and GPS receiver which adds simultaneous display of aircraft attitude information (pitch and roll),
alongside rich, interactive mapping, traffic, and weather within the Garmin Pilot™ application.



In March 2014 Garmin introduced
a comprehensive radar altimeter solution that expands upon Garmin’s high-performance, all-digital GRA 5500 radar altimeter
to include the GRA 55, a best-in-class and cost-effective radar altimeter designed specifically for helicopters and general aviation
aircraft.



Garmin announced the
VIRB Elite Aviation Bundle and Aviator Action Pack in March 2014, bringing new pilot specific features and apropeller
filter which reduces propeller distortion created while filming video in-flight.



In July 2014 Garmin
introduced the Flight Stream 110/210 small wireless gateway that is easily installed in your aircraft, enabling Bluetooth connectivity
between tablets/phones, and Garmin avionics products. The Flight Stream 110 offers GPS, attitude, weather and traffic streaming
from the GDL 88/84 ADS-B datalink and GDL 69 SiriusXM™ datalink, while the Flight Stream 210 adds the capability
for flight plan syncing with the GTN 750/650 series and GNS 430W/530W series navigators as well as the ability
to display attitude information using an on-board AHRS.








In 2014 Garmin
introduced aG3X™ Touch,a touchscreen, flight display system for installation in experimental
amateur-built and light sport aircraft (LSA). The non-certified G3X Touch system offers pilots easy-to-read, easy-to-use, high-resolution
10.6-inch flight displays with split-screen functionality



Garmin introduced the Angle
of Attack (AOA) system comprised of the GI 260 AOA indicator, GAP 26 angle of attack probe and GSU 25 air data computer, which
combine to display safety-enhancing AOA and audible alerts throughout critical phases of flight.



Garmin announced a stand-alone ADS-B solution
for the business jet market that significantly reduces the cost and complexity of complying with future FAA mandates.  This
solution is soon to be approved for the Citation V, the Beechjet 400A and the Learjet60.



Other notable 2014 program certifications:



·Citation
                                         X+ (G5000™) and Cessna CJ3+ (G3000™)

·EASA
                                         validation for Cessna M2 (G3000), Cessna Sovereign (G5000) and Bombardier Learjet 70/75
                                         (G5000) opening up sales in Europe

·Gulfstream
                                         G150 certification for transponder equipment with dual link ADS-B solutions

·Beech
                                         1900 for the G950 Integrated Flight Deck aftermarket upgrade

·Enstrom
                                         480B (G1000H®)



Products



Garmin offers a broad range of solutions
across its reportable segments as outlined below. In general,Garmin believes that its products are known for their value,
high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics.



Automotive/Mobile



Garmin offers a broad range of automotive
navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market.  Garmin currently
offers to consumers around the world:



Personal
Navigation Devices (PND) –









Infotainment
Solutions –



In addition to PNDs, Garmin has
many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) providing infotainment solutions ranging from portable solutions
utilizing an integrated mount within the vehicle to software navigation solutions to fully embedded systems offering a broad range
of functionality.








Mobile
Applications –



Garmin offers mobile applications under
                                         the following brand names:  Viago™, StreetPilot®and NAVIGON®. 
                                         The applications are offered across a broad range of smartphones and tablets including
                                         iOS, Android and Windows enabled devices.  These applications provide users turn-by-turn,
                                         voice-prompted directions and other advanced Garmin navigation features including Reality
                                         View Pro junction information and traffic information.  Some are offered as onboard
                                         solutions in which mapping is downloaded to the user’s device and always available
                                         while some are offboard solutions in which mapping is available via a server utilizing
                                         the mobile connectivity of the device.



Outdoor



Garmin
offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities.Garmin currently
offers to consumers around the world:



Outdoor
Handhelds –



Outdoor handhelds range from basic waypoints
                                         navigation capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices offering barometric altimeter,
                                         3-axis compass, camera, microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps and other
                                         features. Outdoor handhelds are sold under the Dakota®, Oregon®, Rino®, Montana™,
                                         Monterra, eTrex®, and GPSMAP®brand names. Each series of products is designed
                                         to serve various price points and niche activity categories. The Rino series of handhelds
                                         additionally offers two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service
                                         (GMRS) that integrate two-way voice communications. The Monterra is Garmin’s first
                                         Wi-Fi enabled, Android-based outdoor handheld GPS.



Wearable
Devices-



Garmin offers GPS wrist watches for outdoor
                                         activity. The fēnix 2 provides advanced multisport features, comprehensive navigation
                                         and tracking functionalities, as well as trip information, such as heading, elevation
                                         and weather changes. The tactix adds additional features inspired by the requirements
                                         of law enforcement and police special operations.



Golf
Devices -



The Approach®series of golf-focused
                                         devices includes both handhelds and wrist-worn products with up to 30,000 preloaded worldwide
                                         golf courses. The offerings range from basic display of yardages to the front, back and
                                         middle of greens to advanced, touchscreen devices providing measurement of individual
                                         shot distances and display of the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A statistic-tracking
                                         feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics. Some devices include
                                         swing metrics, which gives audible tones to fine-tune swing tempo, manual pin positioning,
                                         which allows users to tap and drag the flag on the green for precise yardage to the flag,
                                         and the ability to display emails, text messages and alerts.



Dog
Tracking and Training/Pet Obedience Devices -



Garmin offers a series of dog-focused products
                                         providing a range of functionality including GPS-enabled dog tracking, electronic dog
                                         training, and electronic bark correction. The products are offered under the Astro®,
                                         Alpha™, Bark Limiter™ and Delta™ brand names. The Astro series can
                                         pinpoint up to ten dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and
                                         a handheld system, which features many of our outdoor capabilities including: barometric
                                         altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior.
                                         Alpha combines the tracking capabilities of Astro with electronic dog training.The Bark Limiter is an intuitive electronic bark correction device. The Delta series
                                         of training collars offers a remote training device without tracking capability.








Action
Cameras -



Garmin offers VIRB™ and VIRB Elite, HD 1080p action cameras. VIRB has a 1.4 inch
                                                                            Chroma display, digital image stabilization and lens distortion correction, and it can take high quality still photographs
                                                                            while the video camera is recording. VIRB Elite incorporates all of these features and adds built-in Wi-Fi, data sensors and
                                                                            a high-sensitivity GPS receiver.



Fitness



Garmin
offers a broad range of products designed for use in fitness and activity tracking.Garmin
currently offers to consumers around the world:



Running/Multi-Sport Watches –



The Forerunner series offers compact, lightweight
                                         training assistants for athletes with integrated GPS sensor that provide time, speed,
                                         distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function
                                         and heart-rate based calorie computation. All models allow runners to upload their data
                                         to Garmin Connect, where they can store, analyze and share their workout data. Additional
                                         advanced features include: Virtual Racer™, which allows runners to race against
                                         their previous best times, recovery advisor, race predictor and VO2 max estimate. The
                                         Forerunner 310XT, 910XT and 920XT are designed specifically for triathletes. These all-in-one
                                         GPS-enabled devices provide detailed swim metrics and track distance, speed/pace, elevation
                                         and heart rate for running and cycling.



Cycling
Computers -



The Edge series measures speed, distance,
                                         time, calories burned, climb and descent, and altitude offering an integrated personal
                                         training system designed for cyclists. In addition, Garmin offers devices geared toward
                                         performance-driven cyclists offering real-time connectivity through a smartphone, providing
                                         live tracking, social media sharing and real-time weather updates.



Cycling
Power Meter -



Garmin offers Vector, which is a high-precision
                                         pedal-based power meter designed specifically for cyclists. It provides power data and
                                         measures and presents right and left leg power balance to ANT+™ compatible devices.



Activity
Tracking Devices -



Garmin has introduced vívofit, vívoki,
                                         and vívosmart to address the growing activity tracking market. The vívofitfitness band provides a personalized daily goal, tracks
                                         progress and reminds users when it’s time to move. The device features a curved
                                         display that shows steps, goal countdown, calories, distance, time of day and heart rate
                                         when paired with a monitor. Vívoki provides similar tracking capabilities in a
                                         small form factor that lacks a display. This offering is designed to be a lower cost
                                         solution for corporate wellness programs. Thevívosmart band provides the
                                         same functions as the vívofit but also provides smart notifications and a vibration
                                         alert.








Swimming
Watch -



Garmin Swim™ is a watch designed for
                                         swimming pool use and allows users to track stroke type, stroke count, distance, pace
                                         and lengths. Users can also upload their swim data to Garmin Connect, where they can
                                         store, analyze and share the data.



Garmin
Connect –



Garmin Connect is a web-based analytic tool where users can store, analyze
                                         and share fitness and wellness data. The companion mobile application also provides real-time
                                         weather data and allows users to wirelessly download courses to some devices.



Marine



Garmin offers a broad
range of products designed for use in the recreational marine industry. Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world:



Chartplotters
and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs) -



Garmin offers
                                         numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP®brand name. The offerings range from
                                         4-inch helm-mounted products to 19-inch fully-integrated Glass Helm offerings. Cartography
                                         options range from US coastal and lake mapping to worldwide basemaps to highly detailed
                                         BlueChart®g2 Vision™ charts offering high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D
                                         map perspective and aerial reference photos toLakeVü
                                         HD and LakeVü HD Ultra, Garmin’s most detailed lake cartography ever created.
                                         Additional advanced features and connectivity available include:Garmin’s G Motion technology, which delivers ultra-smooth map panning and zooming,optional wireless remote and a wireless mouse and expanded “plug-and-play”
                                         access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the
                                         Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather,
                                         sonar, and other data).



Fishfinders
–



Garmin offers
                                         two series of fishfinders. The echo™ series are standalone fishfinders ranging
                                         fromgrayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C, which features a video-quality
                                         640x480 pixel 5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish
                                         arch display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet. The echoMap series provides charplotter
                                         and fishfinder capabilities in a single device.



Sounders
–



Garmin offers “black-box” sounders
                                         which interface with Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder
                                         and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package.



Autopilot Systems -





Garmin offers full-featured marine autopilot
                                         systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features
                                         as: Garmin’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages
                                         the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control, and integration
                                         with the Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire
                                         autopilot capabilities for various steering systems.








Radar
-



Garmin offers
                                         both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible
                                         Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double as the radar screen. The Garmin
                                         radar solutions have a nautical mile range of 36-72 nm.



Instruments
-



Garmin offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant
                                         instrument displays that show data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Mariners
                                         can display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature,
                                         fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon what
                                         sensors are connected.



VHF
Communication Tranceivers -



Garmin provides marine radios with differing
                                         feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners. Theentry-level
                                         radio is NMEA 0183 compatible, while the premium radio is designed for 35+ foot boats,
                                         is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all
                                         AIS channels at the same time.



Handhelds
and Wrist-worn Devices –



Garmin offers a marine-friendly
                                         GPS handheld featuring a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer
                                         between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States. Also
                                         offered for mariners is the quatix™, Garmin’s first GPS watch designed for
                                         mariners, combining marine features and navigation and sailing capabilities while integrating
                                         Garmin’s GPS technology and interface.



Sailing–



In September 2012, Garmin
                                         acquired Nexus Marine AB, a leading supplier of instrumentation for the sailing and yachting
                                         market. 	Nexus designs and manufactures sailing instrumentation systems, and it also
                                         supplies binoculars, accessories and Silva branded marine compasses.



Entertainment
–



In
June 2014, Garmin acquired Fusion Electronics, a leading supplier of integrated marine audio equipment. Fusion designs integrated
audio products and accessories designed for the challenging marine environment allowing boaters to connect and control their audio
through select MFDs.



Aviation



Garmin’s aviation
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems,
terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products, audio panels, cockpit
datalink systems and more. The list below includes a sampling of some of the aviation capabilities currently offered by Garmin:








Integrated
Avionics Systems/Flight Decks -



Garmin offers a range of integrated glass
                                         avionics from the G3X for the experimental and light-sport aircraft market to the G5000
                                         for the business jet market. Basic capabilities integrated include: navigation, communication,
                                         attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution
                                         color displays. More advanced features include: Garmin’s 3-D synthetic vision technology
                                         (SVT™), weather, Garmin’s electronic stability and protection system (ESP),
                                         electronic flight charts and touchscreen controls, which utilize patent pending infrared
                                         touchscreen technology, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know
                                         exactly how the system is responding to their input.



Garmin offers similar integrated glass avionics
                                         for the helicopter market through the G500H, G1000H and G5000H®. Basic and advanced
                                         capabilities are similar to those offered to the aircraft market. The helicopter offerings
                                         have been optimized for rotorcraft and offer features like helicopter synthetic vision
                                         technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and
                                         nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather with NEXRAD,
                                         and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other
                                         video sources.



Garmin also offers all-glass integrated
                                         avionics to the retrofit market through the G500 and G600. These solutions provide electronic
                                         flight displays that work with separate Garmin avionics to provide essential information
                                         such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain and traffic. In addition, upgraded systems
                                         also allow for the display and control of such data as altitude preselects and vertical
                                         speed, DME distance, analog radar altitude, and analog navigation data.



Panel-mount
aviation products -



GPS/Navigation/Communication Solutions
–



Garmin provides certified GPS navigation
                                         receivers, traditional VHF navigation receivers, instrument landing systems receivers
                                         and VHF communication transmitters/receivers. Features available in different GNC, GTR,
                                         GNS and GTN series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation
                                         capabilities, touchscreen operation, graphical flight planning with vector airways and
                                         high-altitude jet routes, remote transponder, remote audio control, SafeTaxi®and
                                         electronic chart capabilities. Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS)
                                         is an option providing graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle
                                         conflicts along the flight path.



Traffic Solutions -





Garmin offers traffic avoidance products
                                         combining active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specifictraffic
                                         threats. These capabilities are part of our GTS™ series of systems. The systems
                                         use Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlate automatic
                                         dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets.The offerings include solutions for both the recreational and transport category
                                         of aircraft.



Audio Solutions -



The GMA series are audio panels ranging
                                         from offerings with basic capabilities for the recreational pilot to advanced capabilities
                                         includingvoice recognition, 3D spatial audio processing,
                                         advanced auto squelch, ambient noise based volume adjustmentand independent pilot/co-pilot
                                         communications capabilities.








Transponder Solutions -



Garmin provides a range of transponder solutions
                                         in the GTX™ series. The FAA-certified transponders transmit altitude or flight
                                         identification to air traffic control radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic
                                         avoidance devices. Newer transponders offer data link capability, including local air
                                         traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS)
                                         and a pathway to ADS-B compliance for the Next Generation airspace system, via transmission
                                         of traffic surveillance data such as aircraft flight ID, position, altitude, velocity,
                                         climb/descent, and heading information. Garmin offers solutions to both recreational
                                         and transport aircraft.



ADS-B Solutions -



Garmin offers an FAA certified ADS-B product
                                         within the GDL®series. Capabilities include GPS satellite navigation with datalink
                                         communications to deliver interactive traffic and hazard surveillance.



Weather Solutions -



Weather capabilities are delivered within
                                         our GDL, GSR and GWX™ series. The solutions range from offering XM WX satellite
                                         real-time weather information to the aircraft via panel-mounted devices from Garmin to
                                         on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position
                                         tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). Also available
                                         in the GWX series are all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitters that bring real-time weather
                                         to Garmin’s multi-function displays and Integrated Avionics Systems, as well as
                                         advanced Doppler-enabled features.



Portable
and Wearable Solutions -



Garmin offers the aera®series and GPSMAP
                                         695/696 as portable avionics solutions. The aera series combines an aviation portable
                                         with a full-featured automotive GPS. These touchscreen products come with automotive
                                         maps, a terrain/obstacles aviation database, and a patented instrument display. Advanced
                                         features include: a digital document viewer, a scratch pad, pre-loaded geo-referenced
                                         charts, and XM radio and weather. The GPSMAP series offers detailed electronic charts,
                                         airways and IFR map mode. Other features available include: XM radio and XM WX Satellite
                                         Weather. Garmin announced D2™ in October 2013, which is a premium watch designed
                                         specifically for aviators.



Mobile
Application -



Garmin Pilot™ is a premium flight
                                         planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on iOS and
                                         Android-based mobile devices. It provides instant access to comprehensive U.S. and Canada
                                         weather data, winds and temperature aloft, and lightning data.



Sales and Marketing



Garmin’s non-aviation
products are sold in approximately 100 countries through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors,
who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customer’s purchases represented 10% or more of Garmin’s
consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 27, 2014. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmin’s
offices around the world. Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence
while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.








Garmin’s U.S.
consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales
managers and in-house sales associates. Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product
sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s
in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible
for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles
the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors
include:



·Amazon.com—internet
                                         retailer;

·Best
                                         Buy—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics retailers;

·Costco—an
                                         international chain of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name merchandise;

·Halford’s—a
                                         large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories; and

·Wal-Mart—the
                                         world’s largest mass retailer



Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation
portable products are sold through select aviation dealers around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also
through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmin’s largest aviation dealers include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Elliott
Aviation, Gulf Coast Avionics Corp., Sarasota Avionics, and Sportsman’s Market. Avionics dealers have the training, equipment
and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.



In addition to the
traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In the
automotive/mobile segment, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or through
tier 2 sourcing. Some of Garmin’s larger OEM relationships include Chrysler, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, BMW Motorrad,
Mercedes Benz, Bombardier, and Polaris. In the marine segment, Garmin’s products are standard equipment on various models
of boats. Some of the larger OEM relationships include Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner
Boats (a division of Brunswick Corporation), Bavaria Yacht, Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington
Marine, LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline
Boats, Ltd., Inha Works Ltd. and Regal Marine Industries, Inc. In the aviation market, Garmin’s avionics are either standard
equipment or options on various models of aircraft. Some of the larger OEM relationships include AgustaWestland, Bombardier, Bell
Helicopter-A Textron Company, Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Beechcraft Corporation,
Pilatus Aircraft Ltd,Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest Aircraft Company, and Robinson Helicopter
Company.



Competition



In general, we operate
in highly competitive markets though competitive conditions do vary among our diverse products and geographies.  Garmin believes
the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer
service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability.  Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of
these areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets.



Garmin believes that
its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (MiTAC) (which distributes
products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for infotainment
solutions are Harman International Industries, Panasonic Corporation, and the Mitsubishi Group. Garmin believes that its principal
competitors for outdoor product lines are Bushnell, Delorme, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (“Lowrance”)
Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC , SportDOG Brand and Suunto Oy. For mobile products Garmin believes that its principal competitors
are Google Inc., Apple Inc. and Telenav Inc. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Bryton Corp.,
Fitbit Inc., AliphCom dba Jawbone, Polar Electro Oy, Sigma Sports, Suunto Oy and Timex Corp. For marine products, Garmin believes
that its principal competitors are Furuno Electronic Company, the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., Navico and Flir
Systems, Inc. For Garmin’s aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne
Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, CMC Electronics, Free Flight Systems, Honeywell, Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins,
Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc. and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation.








Research and Development



Garmin’s product
innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering
and manufacturing teams. Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 3,386 people
worldwide as of December 27, 2014. Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely
with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and
cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.
Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition
it into manufacturing.



Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures
on research and development over the last three fiscal years.





($'s in thousands)December 27,2014December 28,2013December 29,2012Research and development$395,121$364,923$325,773Percent of net sales13.8%13.9%12.0%



Manufacturing and Operations



Garmin believes one
of its core competencies and strengths is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its Taiwan facilities in Xizhi,
Jhongli and LinKou, and at its U.S. facilities in Olathe, Kansas and Salem, Oregon. Garmin believes that its ownership and operation
of its own manufacturing facilities and distribution networks provides significant capability and flexibility to address the breadth
and depth of resources necessary to serve its diverse products and markets.



Specifically, Garmin
believes that its vertical integration of it manufacturing capabilities provides advantages to product cost, quality and time
to market.



Cost:Garmin’s
manufacturing resources rapidly and iteratively prototype designs, concepts, products and processes, achieving higher efficiency,
resulting in lower cost. Garmin’s vertical integration approach enables leveraging our manufacturing resources across high,
mid and low volume products. Sharing of these resources across our product lines favorably affects Garmin’s costs to produce
its range of products, with lower volume products realizing the economies of scale of the high volume products. The ownership
and integration of our resources allows Garmin to optimize the design for manufacturing of our products, yielding improved cost.



Quality:Garmin’s
automation and sophisticated production processes provide in-service robustness and consistent reliability standards that enables
Garmin to maintain strict process and quality control of the products manufactured, thereby improving the overall quality of our
products. Additionally, the immediate feedback throughout the manufacturing processes is provided to the development teams providing
integrated continuous improvement throughout design and supply chain.



Time to Market:Garmin uses multi-disciplinary teams of design engineers, process engineers, and supply chain specialists to develop products,
allowing them to quickly move from concept to manufacturing. This integrated ownership provides inherent flexibility to enable
faster time to market.



Garmin’s design,
manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in its US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international
quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations in Taiwan
and Olathe have achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. Garmin’s Olathe and Salem
aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.








Garmin International,
Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to
the ISO 14001 standard, recognizing Garmin’s systems and processes which minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment
and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.



Materials



Although most components
essential to Garmin’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained
by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key
components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory
(DRAM), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.





Seasonality



Our sales are subject
to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during
the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season
and the Mother’s Day/Father’s Day/graduation buying season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the
timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced
by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest.



Backlog



Our sales are generally
of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.



Intellectual Property



Our success and ability
to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often
relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography
technology for use in our products from various sources.








As of January 19, 2015,
Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 880 patent and 610 trademark registrations issued worldwide.  For the
past seven years Garmin has been selected as a constituent of the Ocean Tomo®300 Patent Index which recognizes companies
with high intellectual property value. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees
and their ability to continue to innovate.  Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate
to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in its proprietary technologies.



There is no assurance
that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part.
It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others
will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity
and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.



Regulations



The telecommunications
industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with
the United States’ Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required
to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmin’s products sold in
Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications
for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could
adversely affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft”
are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations
before they can be used in an aircraft.





Environmental Matters



Garmin’s operations
are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances
and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
Capital expenditures for environmental controls are included in our normal capital budget.








Environmental regulation
of Garmin’s products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and
material composition of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers
to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance
with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental
laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial.



Garmin has implemented
multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards,
and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility,
Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.



Regulatory and “Green
Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing; particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly
design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established. 
Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.



Employees



As of December 27,
2014, Garmin had 11,185 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 4,177 were in the United States, 80 were in Canada, 5,276
were in Taiwan, 1,168 were in Europe, and 484 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil
and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.



