Item 1.Business



This discussion of the
business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by
reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7
herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference
in partial response to this Item 1. Beginning in 2011, for external reporting purposes, the Company identified five operating segments
– Auto/Mobile, Aviation, Marine, Outdoor and Fitness. Each operating segment is individually reviewed and evaluated by our
Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment individually. Prior to
2011, the Outdoor and Fitness operating segments were combined into a single reportable segment due to the similar nature of those
products, their production processes, the types of customers served, their distribution processes, and similar economic conditions.
Management re-evaluated the combination of these operating segments and determined that based on the growth characteristics of
these segments they should now be reported as two distinct reportable segments. The segment and geographic information included
in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial
response to this Item 1.



Garmin
was incorporated in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”).
Garmin Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to
facilitate a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent
holding company of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing
the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the
“Redomestication”). Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred
to Garmin and each common share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par
value 10 Swiss francs (“CHF”) per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies
in the Garmin group.



Garmin’s
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed
by Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material
is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains
an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.








The
reference to Garmin’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this
website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K.



Company Overview



Garmin is a leading, worldwide
provider of navigation, communication and information devices and applications, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning
System (“GPS”) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse family of hand-held, portable
and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile, outdoor,
fitness, marine, and general aviation markets.



Overview of the Global Positioning System



The Global Positioning System
is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite technology.
The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations
are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment program
to ensure continuous global system coverage. Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government.



Prior to May 2000, the U.S.
Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability
(‘‘SA’’) for national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a radius of 100
meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004,
the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA again and is committed to preventing hostile use
of GPS through regional denial of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS receiver can calculate
its position to an accuracy of approximately 10 meters or less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications.



The accuracy and utility
of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (‘‘WAAS’’)
comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United
States and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal
and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of
WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS system had achieved initial
operating capability and that the system was available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics equipment.
Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites.



Japan’s MTSAT-based
Satellite Augmentation System (“MSAS”) achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal and approach navigation
for aviation on September 27, 2007. The European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (“SoL”)
service achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal, and approach navigation on March 2, 2011.



Recent
Developments in the Company’s Business



Since
the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 97 million products, which includes the delivery of almost 16 million
products during 2011.








Acquisitions



In
June 2011, Garmin acquired Tri-Tronics Inc., the leading designer and manufacturer of electronic dog training equipment.



In
July 2011, Garmin acquired NAVIGON AG (now known as Garmin Würzburg GmbH), a leader in the portable navigation device market
in Germany and a worldwide leader in navigation applications for smartphones.



In
September 2011, Garmin acquired Garmin Distribution Africa (Pty.) Ltd. (now known asGarmin
Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd.), the distributor of Garmin’s automotive, outdoor recreation,
fitness and marine products in southern Africa, and Garmap (Pty) Ltd., a South African mapping and mobile applications provider.



In December 2011, Garmin acquired Centro GPS
Lda. (now known as Garmin Chile Lda.), the distributor of Garmin’s automotive, outdoor recreation, fitness and marine products
in Chile.



Automotive/Mobile
Product Introductions



In January
2011, Garmin announced the nüvi® 2400 series of portable navigation devices featuring a five-inch display and a range
of optional features including voice-activated navigation, lifetime traffic and map updates, and advanced route planning and calculation
with Garmin’s nüRoute™ technology. Also in January 2011, Garmin announced the dēzl™ series of navigation
devices designed for the trucking industry incorporating truck-specific points of interest (POIs) with The National Truck &
Trailer Services (NTTS) Breakdown Directory, hours, fuel and mileage logging and truck speed limits.



In August 2011, Garmin
announced thenüvi 30, 40 and 50 series of budget portable navigation devices and the nüvi
3400 series of premium portable navigation devices with features including Garmin’s Guidance 3.0 navigation engine.



Outdoor
Product Introductions



Garmin
entered the personal and property tracking market in 2011 with the introduction of the GTU 10 GPS locator and web-based tracking
service. The GTU 10 won a 2011Popular MechanicsEditor’s Choice award and aNational Geographic Adventures2011 Gear of the Year award.



Garmin expanded its line
of products for golfers in 2011 with the introduction of the Approach® G6 GPS golf handheld device that comes preloaded with
25,000 worldwide golf courses and an internal rechargeable battery.



In June
2011, Garmin announced the Astro® 320 handheld dog tracking GPS device with increased range, enhanced mapping capabilities
and a new user interface.



In May
2011, Garmin announced the MontanaTMruggedized GPS handheld device with a color touchscreen, dual display orientation,
a barometric altimeter, a 3-axis electronic compass, a 5 megapixel camera in certain models and support for a wide range of Garmin
mapping products. Garmin also announced a redesigned and upgraded version of its eTrex®series of GPS handheld devices with
enhanced ergonomics an improved user interface and, in certain models, a color screen with expanded mapping capabilities.



Garmin
also introduced a redesigned and upgraded range of Rino® handheld two-way radios with integrated GPS in 2011. Certain models
feature barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass and NOAA weather radio.



Fitness
Product Introductions



Garmin
added to its line of products for fitness enthusiasts in 2011 with the Forerunner® 610, the first touchscreen GPS-enabled watch
in Garmin’s Forerunner series, and the Forerunner 910XT multisport GPS-enabled watch which provides swimming metrics and
tracks distance, speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling. Garmin also introduced the FR70 low profile fitness
watch.








Garmin
expanded its line of products for cyclists in 2011 with the introduction of the Edge® entry-level 200 cycling computer.



Garmin
also announced Garmin FitTM, its first fitness app for the iPhone and Android phones that uses the phone’s GPS
to let users track metrics such as speed, pace, distance, time, calories and with the help of Garmin accessories displays heart
rate and cadence.



Marine Product Introductions



Garmin
added to its marine product lineup in 2011 with the introduction of the GDLTM40
cellular marine weather receiver, the GHSTM20 and 20i wireless remote handsets
for Garmin’s VHF 200 and 300 series marine radios and an update to the GHPTM12marine autopilot.



Aviation
Product Introductions



During 2011, Garmin introduced
the GTNTM650 and 750 series touchscreen-controlled integratedVHF navigation receiver/instrument
landing systems receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver.The GTN 650 and GTN 750 features
include graphical flight planning with victor airways and high-altitude jet routes, high-resolution terrain mapping, remote transponder,
remote audio control (750 series only), SafeTaxi® and electronic chart capabilities (750 series only).



In March 2011, Garmin announced
the G1000HTMintegrated glass flight deck system designed specifically for helicopters,
including an optional Helicopter Terrain and Awareness System (HTAWS).Also in March 2011 Garmin announced theG2000TM,
a premium touchscreen-controlled integrated flight deck designed for high performance piston aircraft.



In September
2011 Garmin announced the aera® 795 and 796 touchscreen portable aviation navigation devices. The 796 features 3D Vision which
uses GPS position and the terrain-alerting database to recreate a 3D behind-the-aircraft perspective view of the topographic landscape.



Products



Garmin has achieved a leading market position
and a history of growth in revenues and profits by offering ergonomically designed, user-friendly products with innovative features
and designs covering a broad range of applications and price points. Garmin’s target markets are currently broken down into
its five main business segments – automotive/mobile, outdoor, fitness, marine and aviation.



Automotive/Mobile



Garmin offers a broad range of automotive navigation
products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market. Garmin believes that its products
are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. The table below includes a sampling of the
primary automotive and mobile products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.








nüvi®



(59 models)

announced the nüvi 3500 series, our newest
flagship PNDs and first GPS navigators that combine the ultra-thin form factor with a large, 5-inch glass display. The 3500 series
is part of the Prestige line of 2012 nüvis and includes the most premium features available on any device such as the Guidance
3.0 navigation engine, Digital 3D Traffic and compatibility with Garmin’s newest Android application, Smartphone Link.



zūmo®

(4 models)Motorcycle-specific navigators with features including a glove-friendly touch screen with high
bright sunlight-readable display, motorcycle mount, vibration-tested design, and Bluetooth wireless technology. A microSD (secure
digital) card slot allows riders to share their favorite places and rides with fellow zūmo riders. The zūmo 660 and 665
feature 3-D building view and lane assist with junction view and a digital fuel gauge. The 665 includes an antenna for XM Satellite
Radio®, XM NavWeather® and XM NavTraffic® (subscription is required for XM content).



dēzl™

(2 models)In January 2011, Garmin announced the dēzl series, a new line of Garmin navigators designed
exclusively for the over-the road trucking industry.The dēzl  features a large five-inch
display, a built-in loudspeaker, and offers a number of additional user-friendly features including truck-specific points of interest
(POIs) with The National Truck & Trailer Services (NTTS) Breakdown Directory, hours, fuel and mileage logging, truck speed
limits and advanced navigation and route planning and calculation with Garmin’s nüRoute™ technology.The dēzl series is comprised of two models: the dēzl 560LT, a traffic-enabled model that notifies drivers of traffic
delays and road construction and suggests detours around them; and the dēzl 560LMT that adds map updates, letting users download
the most up-to-date maps and points of interest up to four times a year.



StreetPilot® ApplicationLaunched in January 2011, this smartphone application allows Apple iPhone or GPS-enabled iPad users
to download premium Garmin navigation to their device, allowing for turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other popular Garmin
navigation features.





Streetpilot
Onboard

Application for iPhoneAnnounced in August 2011, theStreetPilot Onboard App for iPhone offers
onboard mapping and navigation, giving drivers and travelers an unparalleled range of industry-leading options for efficient
routing, effortless planning and stress-free touring wherever they may go.



Smartphone LinkLaunched in January 2012, Smartphone Link isthe first Android application
to provide live services to PNDs. Smartphone Link creates a seamless navigation experience between any Bluetooth enabled 2012 Garmin
nüvi and an Android smartphone allowing them to communicate and share data. Among other functionalities, the application lets
nüvi users add live services, such as traffic information, traffic camera images, weather and fuel prices to their navigation
device, utilizing the smartphone's mobile data plan. Smartphone Link is available at no cost in the Android Market and includes
several free live services as well as premium content available through subscriptions.








NAVIGON

Applications
for

iPhoneIn November 2011, NAVIGON (now Garmin Würzburg GmbH) launched the second generation of its
award-winning iPhone navigation app, NAVIGON 2.0 for iPhone. The new version completely redefines core elements of iPhone navigation,
including a new and unique map management function and an in application purchase option for quarterly map updates, both not found
in any other onboard navigation app. Also included is a very simple and intuitive user interface. Existing NAVIGON for iPhone users
receive the update to the new version at no cost.



NAVIGON

Applications
for

WindowsWith NAVIGON’s Windows applications, users can turn their Windows mobile phones into a mobile
navigation device with features such as text-to-speech spoken turn-by-turn navigation instructions, Reality View Pro junction information
and depictions, and Lane Assist Pro.



NAVIGON

Applications
for

AndroidWith NAVIGON’s Android
applications, users can turn their Android mobile phones into a mobile navigation device with features such as text-to-speech
spoken turn-by-turn navigation directions, Reality View Pro junction information and depictions, Lane Assist Pro, and live real-time
weather and traffic information.



Outdoor



The
table below includes a sampling of the outdoor products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.



Dakota®

(2 models)The Dakota series is Garmin’s entry level series of handheld GPS navigators with built-in
mapping. The Dakota 10 is a rugged, palm-sized navigator that offers a touchscreen display, high-sensitivity GPS, and a built-in
worldwide basemap. The Dakota 20 adds a barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, and a microSD™ card slot for optional
customized maps. The 20 model also allows a user to share waypoints, tracks, routes and geocaches wirelessly with other compatible
Dakota, Foretrex®, Oregon® and Colorado® users.








Oregon®

(4 models)The Oregon series combines a bright 3-inch color touchscreen, rugged design and a variety of hiker-friendly
features. The Oregon 450 and Oregon 450t offer a rugged, sunlight-readable, touchscreen along with a built-in basemap with shaded
relief, a high-sensitivity receiver, barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, microSD™ card slot, picture viewer
and more.The high-end Oregon 550 and 550t models each come with a built-in 3.2 megapixel
autofocus digital camera with 4x digital zoom, and each photo taken by these devices is automatically geotagged with the location
of where it was taken, allowing the user to navigate back to that exact spot in the future.



Rino®

(8 models)Handheld two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) radios that
integrate two-way voice communications with GPS navigation. Features include patented “peer-to-peer position reporting”
so you can transmit your location to another Rino radio. The Rino 110 offers anFRS/GMRS radio plus
basic GPS navigator.The Rino 120 adds an internal basemap and MapSource compatibility for street-level mapping. The Rino
130 has 24 MB of internal memory, built-in electronic compass, barometric sensor, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) weather radio receiver. The Rino 520HCx has a high sensitivity GPS receiver, 5 watts of transmit power, color display, mini-USB
interface, and a turn-by turn automatic route calculation for use in automobiles. The Rino 530HCx has all of the features of the
Rino 520HCx, plus a seven-channel weather receiver, electronic compass, and barometric altimeter. In June 2011 Garminannounced the redesigned and upgraded Rino610, 650 and 655t. The Rino 610 is an entry level 1-watt FRS/GMRS radio handheld
GPS radio is powered by four AA batteries and comes pre-loaded with a worldwide basemap. The Rino 650 and 655t 5-watt FRS/GMRS
radios have a communication range of up to 20 miles and have evolved to include a 2.6” glove-friendly touchscreen and include
features such as a barometric altimeter, 3-axis tilt compensated compass and NOAA weather radio.



Montana™

(3 models)In May 2011, Garmin announced the Montanahandheld GPS device
– the most advanced Garmin handheld featuring a ruggedized design with multiple mounting and battery options, dual-orientation
and screen layout options and support for a wide range of Garmin cartography. It has a barometric altimeter for elevation profiling
and ability to profile the route ahead using an included worldwide elevation model. The included 3-axis compass gives it a heading
while standing still or when not held level.Montana 600 is the base model andfeatures a 4-inch color touchscreen dual orientation
display and supports multiple mapping options likeBirdsEye Satellite Imagery,BlueChart®
g2andTOPO U.S. 24K. Montana has key features for the outdoors such as a 3-axis
tilt-compensated compass and barometric altimeter. Montana 650 adds a 5 megapixel camera, and Montana 650t adds preloaded TOPO
U.S. 100K maps.



eTrex®

(8 models)In May 2011, Garmin announced the redesigned and upgradedeTrexhandheld GPS device – evolving from one of the world’s most reliable and popular handhelds, with millions sold. This
entry level option has been given enhanced ergonomics, an improved interface, paperless geocaching and in certainmodels, a 65k color screen with expanded mapping capabilities. These new additions, along with up to 25 hours of battery life,
make the new eTrex more versatile and user-friendly, while maintaining its durability.








GPSMAP®62

(5 models)Rugged outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and
outdoors enthusiasts. The basic GPSMAP 62 includes a built-in worldwide basemap with shaded relief. The GPSMAP 62s adds a 3-axis
tilt-compensated electronic compass and wireless connectivity for sharing routes, tracks, waypoints and geocaches between other
compatible Garmin handhelds. The GPSMAP 62s also includes a barometric altimeter that tracks changes in pressure to pinpoint the
precise altitude. In addition to these features, the GPSMAP 62st includes preloaded 100K topographic maps for the entire United
States (or preloaded 50K topographic mapping of Canada for the Canadian version). The GPSMAP 62stc and GPSMAP 62sc were announced
in June 2011.The GPSMAP 62stc features a 3-axis tilt-compensated compass, a barometric altimeter, 5 megapixel autofocus
camera with photo navigation, preloaded TOPO U.S. 100K maps and supports custom maps and BirdsEye™ Satellite imagery (subscription
required). The GPSMAP 62sc features a 3-axis tilt-compensated compass, a barometric altimeter, a 5 megapixel autofocus camera with
photo navigation, and support for Custom Maps and BirdsEye™ Satellite imagery (subscription required).



Approach®

(4 models)The Approach G5 is a waterproof, touchscreen, handheld GPS for golfers that features over 17,500
preloaded golf course maps. Approach G5 uses a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to measure individual shot distances and show the
exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A statistic-tracking feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics.
The Approach G3 is a smaller, lighter version of the G5, yet still offers over 17,500 preloaded courses.The
Approach S1 is a wearable golf watch that displays precise yardages to the front, back and middle of greens and comes preloaded
with over 17,500 courses. In September 2011, Garmin introduced the Approach S1W, which is a white version of the Approach S1, so
that customers could choose between the colors black and white for their Approach S1. In January 2012 Garmin announced the newest
Approach model – the Approach G6. The Approach G6 is a sleek, slim glove-friendly device weighing just over three ounces
that comes preloaded with over 25,000 worldwide courses.

Astro®

(2 models)High sensitivity GPS-enabled dog tracking system. The Astro 220 is designed to pinpoint up to ten
dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and a handheld system. The system also provides a Dog Tracker page
and a Covey Countertmto assist the hunter. It is loaded with many of
the features of our outdoor devices including: barometric altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof
exterior. In June 2011 Garmin announced the Astro 320,which includes increased range, a simplified
user interface, and enhanced mapping capability. With the included redesigned antenna, the maximum range between the Astro 320
and a Garmin tracking collar was increased by nearly 30 percent.  Like the Astro 220, the Astro 320 can track upto
ten dogs per receiver at once, and the unit is fully compatible with Garmin’s DC 20, DC 30, and DC 40 dog tracking collars
and accessories. In addition to the pre-installed basemap, the Astro 320 can be loaded with 100k or 24k Topo maps or photorealisticBirdsEye™ Satellite Imagery($29.99 annual subscription required).  The Astro
320 has 1.7 gigabytes of on-board memory available for loading maps, and a microSD slot for pre-loadedcards.





GTU™ 10 GPS TrackerOn January 4, 2011, Garmin announced theGTU 10, which is a GPS locator
that combines a web-based tracking service with GPS technology so the user can keep track his or her children, pets and property
by monitoring the device’s location through eitherGarmin’s secure website using any computer or with the freeGarmin Tracker™app.








Fitness



The
table below includes a sampling of the fitness products and applications that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.



Forerunner®



(12 models)

quickly scroll and
select features on the run. The Forerunner 610 is Garmin’s first ever touch-screen fitness watch and it also adds the new
Virtual Racer™, which allows runners to race against their previous best times, using data stored on the watch.

is water-resistant to 50m
and tracks biking and running data (and optional heart rate data).

the only all-in-one GPS-enabled device that provides detailed swim metrics and tracks distance,
speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling. Designed for both open water and pool swimming, Forerunner 910XT
is water resistant to 50 meters and is Garmin’s first multisport watch to offer extensive swim metrics, including swim distance,
stroke identification, stroke count and pool lengths.



Edge®

(3 models)Integrated personal training systems designed for cyclists. The Edge 200 measures speed, distance,
time, calories burned, climb and descent, altitude and more. The Edge 500 is geared toward performance-driven cyclists and tracks
the cyclist’s distance, speed, location and elevation with high sensitivity GPS, and also tracks the cyclist’s heart
rate with an optional heart rate monitor (sold separately). The newest model, the Edge 800, added a touchscreen interface to the
Edge family of products.



Garmin Fit™ ApplicationIn October 2011, Garmin announced Garmin Fit for iPhone and Android, Garmin’s first fitness
app that lets users track metrics such as speed, pace, distance, time, calories, and with optional Garmin accessories displays
heart rate and cadence. Garmin Fit also maps and automatically uploads workouts to Garmin’s Garmin Connect, which is Garmin’s
website where users can track their workout data.





Vector™In August 2011, Garmin announced Vector, which is a high-precision pedal based power meter for
cyclists. Vector is a light-weight direct measurement power meter and it is designed for quick installation, portability, and ease-of-use.





Marine



Garmin’s marine products
include handhelds, network products and multifunction displays, fixed-mount GPS/chartplotter products, instruments, fishfinders,
radar, autopilots, VHF radios, marine networking products, and sounder products. The table below includes a sampling of some of
the marine products that Garmin currently offers to consumers.








Marine
Chartplotters and Networking Products



GPSMAP®7000 series

(4 models)The GPSMAP 7000 series of large format multi-function displays introduced
Garmin’s G Motion technology, which represents an upgrade in speed, smoothness and clarity over prior plotters. G Motion
technology delivers ultra-smooth map panning and zooming with virtually seamless graphical updating in all dimensions.  The
7000 series chartplotters also feature a low-level backlight display and a backlit keypad for use inlow-light conditions
without compromising vision. The GPSMAP 7x15 series offers a huge 15-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable touchscreen
display, and is offered in two models – the GPSMAP 7015 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP
7215, which comes pre-loaded with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas.   Mariners
can also opt for the same XGA resolution in a 12-inch diagonal screen configuration with the GPSMAP 7012 and GPSMAP 7212 models,
which offer a worldwide basemap and coastal charts respectively.  All models are compatible with an optional wireless remote
and a wireless mouse for additional flexibility and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors,
with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite
Weather, sonar, and other data).



GPSMAP6000
series

(4 models)Like the 7000 series, the 6000 series models also offer Garmin’s G Motion technology and
the features to improve visibility in low-light conditions.The GPSMAP 6x12 series features a traditional
soft-key interface with an alphanumeric keypad and a 12-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable display.  Within
this family, Garmin offers the GPSMAP 6012 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 6212 with highly
detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas preloaded.  For a smaller display, the GPSMAP 6x08 series
offers an 8-inch VGA (640 x 480) sunlight readable display with a soft-key interface. The models in the GPSMAP 6000 series are
all compatible with an optional wireless remote and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors,
with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity.



GPSMAP
5000 series

(6 models)These touch-screen multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network (a system that combines
GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data) offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color. The 5212
and 5208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart®
g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference
photos, and auto guidance. The 5215 and 5015 offer 15-inch diagonal sunlight-readable touchscreen displays.



GPSMAP 4000 series/

4200 series (6 models)These multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network offer ease of use and video-quality
resolution and color. The 4212 and 4208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible
with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D
map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance. The 4210 and 4010 feature 10.4-inch diagonal sunlight- readable displays
and Garmin’s newer marine user interface.



GPSMAP 6x0and 7x0 series

(6 models)The 6x0 series chartplotters offer a super-bright WVGA touchscreen display and provide navigational
support for both marine mode and automotive mode (when loaded with optional City Navigator® NT road maps for North America).
The 7x0 models aretouchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters offering radar capability
and built-in sonar.








GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1

series (8 models)Building upon the success of the GPSMAP 400 and 500 series, the new
chartplotters in the GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1 series come standard with an internal high-sensitivity GPS receiver that allows for faster
acquisition times and better satellite tracking so that boaters are able to acquire and maintain a GPS fix more easily. In addition,
these units boast an improved, high-speed digital design that will increase map drawing and panning speeds. The sounder (“s”)
version of each model comes with a powerful dual-frequency transducer that clearly illustrates depth contours, fish targets and
structures in either fresh or salt water. Many of the new models in this series are also NMEA 2000 certified and can interface
with Garmin’s full lineup of NMEA 2000 marine sensors and autopilots, as well as many other third-party sensors.



GPSMAP4x1

series (4 models)With a 4-inch QVGA sunlight-readable display, the GPSMAP 4x1 series
was designed for the boater who wants high performance in a small package. These units feature a high-sensitivity GPS receiver
and faster processors, and are offered with the same cartography configuration as the GPSMAP 5x1 series. Likewise, the GPSMAP 4x1s
series is also available with a built-in sonar with a 500-watt RMS dual-frequency transducer for offshore use and a 400-watt RMS
with a dual beam transducer for inland use. For satellite weather and radio data, the GPSMAP 441 and 421 are also compatible with
the GXM 51 receiver.



GSD 22, 24

and 26These “black-box” sounders interface with Garmin display units and chartplotters and
enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package.



GMS 10The GMS 10 Network Port Expander is the "nerve center" of the Garmin Marine Network.
This 100-Mbit switch is designed to support the connection of multiple sensors to theGarmin Marine
Network.



Other Marine Products



GMI™ 10The GMI 10 is a NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument that displays data from multiple remote
sensors on one screen. Mariners can use the GMI 10 to display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature,
fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon what sensors are connected.



GPSMAP 78sc

Marine-friendly GPS handheld featuring a new contemporary industrial
design with rubber side grips. The GPSMAP 78sc includes high-end features such as a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass,
wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States.



VHF
Marine Radios

(4 models)This series of marine radios offers differing feature sets for the radio
needs of all types of mariners. The VHF 100 isanentry-level, NMEA 0183 compatible VHF marine
radio. The VHF 200 is NMEA 2000 compatible. The next step up is the VHF 300, which is designed for 35+ foot boats and is NMEA 2000
and NMEA 0183 compatible and offers multi-station support. Also designed for 35+ foot boats, the VHF 300 AIS is NMEA 2000 and NMEA
0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time.








Marine

Autopilot Systems

(5 models)The newest entry to Garmin’s marine autopilot lineup is the GHP 12, a full-featured marine
autopilot designed initially for sailboats. This second-generation autopilot is designed for 20- to 70-foot sailboats with linear-actuated
steering systems. In June 2011 Garmin announced that the GHP 12 was updated to also support powerboats with both solenoid-driven
and cable-actuated steering systems, as well as those with third party hydraulic pumps. The GHP 10 autopilot is also for powerboats
and comes with Garmin’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm
is turned, allowing the helmsman to maneuver the boat. This autopilot automatically re-engages when a steady course is held by
the helmsman. The TR-1 Gold Marine Autopilot offers worry-free remote steering and speed control to operators of small gasoline
outboard motor boats up to 20 horsepower. Finally, the GHP 10V Autopilot System for Volvo Penta IPS and Sterndrive Joystick Systems
is approved for use with boats that have an integrated Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system and features Garmin’s
proven and innovative Shadow Drive™ technology, a patented capability that automatically disengages the autopilot if the
helm is turned, allowing for quick and safe manual maneuvers without manually disengaging the autopilot.



Fishfinders

(11 models)Garmin offers 11 different fishfinder options spanning various price points. The latest addition
to Garmin’s fishfinder lineup is six different models of Garmin’s new echo™ fishfinder series, a line of standalone
fishfinders that all offer an updated look and new Garmin HD-ID™ target tracking technology. The echo™ line ranges
in price points from models with grayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C, which features a video-quality 640x480 pixel
5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish arch display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet.
In addition to the echo™ series, Garmin also offers five additional fishfinder options. All of these models feature Garmin’s
Ultrascroll™ technology, which allows boaters to get a faster refresh rate on their sonar display, and dual-beam transducer
operation. Three of these models offer color displays. The Fishfinder 400C comes with dual beam or dual frequency transducers for
easy adaptability to either freshwater or saltwater fishing. It also offers a new, easy-to-use interface and built in CANet connectivity
to enable sonar data to be shared with compatible Garmin chartplotters.



Radar

(9 models)Garmin offers both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility
to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double as the radar screen. The GMR™ 18 is a digital
radome product with a 4 kilowatt radar with 36 nm range that is 0.45 m in diameter and comes with an antenna with 5.0° beamwidth.
The GMR 404 and 406 open array radar scanners provide even greater clarity and a 72 nautical mile range. The GMR 18 HD and GMR
24 HD radomes feature digital signal processing providing sharper radar imagery and improved target separation. The newestgeneration
of open-array digital radar scanners are the GMR™ 1204/1206 xHD, the GMR 604/606 xHD and the GMR 404/406 xHD models, which
transmit with 12, 6 and 4 kilowatts of power respectively. All six of these open-array scanners have a maximum effective range
of 72 nautical miles. These new xHD scanners provide up to eight times more sampling data than Garmin’s current open-array
offerings.








Aviation



Garmin’s aviation
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems,
terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products, audio panels, cockpit
datalink systems and more.



Flying

Aviation Consumer

Flying

Aviation Consumer

Flying

Flying

Aviation Consumer

Professional Pilot

Aviation International News

Air Transport World Magazine



Garmin’s aviation
products are sold in both new aircraft/helicopters and the retrofit market where existing aircraft/helicopters are fitted with
the latest electronics from Garmin’s broad product line.










The table below includes
a sampling of some of the aviation products currently offered by Garmin:



Handheld and portable aviation
products:



aera®
series

(6 models)Garmin’s newest aviation handheld series combines the latest aviation portable with a full-featured
automotive GPS, allowing pilots to transition between aviation to automotive mode with one touch.Featuring
a crisp 4.3-inch QVGA wide-format display with touchscreen interface, all four aera models come with preloaded automotive maps,
a built-in terrain/obstacles aviation database, patented Panel Page instrument display, and other features.When in aviation
mode, pilots see colorful icons that use intuitive pictures and labels to indicate their function. The exterior of each aera model
(500, 510, 550 and 560) is identical, but the software features of each model are tailored to those seeking an entry, mid or high-level
aviation handheld.In September 2011, Garmin announced a new series of portable navigation devices,
the aera 796 and aera 795. As Garmin’s new flagship portable aviation product, the aera 796 incorporates the popular features
of the GPSMAP® 696, while also adding new capabilities such as a touchscreen user interface, pilot-selectable screen orientation
and 3D Vision. The aera 796 also takes the pilot one step closer to a paperless cockpit with a digital document viewer, scratch
pad and pre-loaded geo-referenced AeroNav IFR and VFR enroute charts. The aera 795 has the same features as the aera 796 except
does not include XM radio and weather.



GPSMAP 695/696The GPSMAP 696 offers a bright 7-inch screen, preloaded detailed electronic charts, preloaded airways
and IFR map mode. The GPSMAP 696 has a receiver for XM radio and XM WX Satellite Weather (U.S. customers only) that gives next
generation radar (NEXRAD), aviation routine weather reports (METARs), terminal aerodrome forecasts (TAFs), temporary flight restrictions
(TFRs), lightning, winds aloft, turbulence forecasts, and several other important weather products (XM subscription required).
The GPSMAP 695 has the same features except for XM radio and weather. In July 2010, Garmin announced that the 695/696 would receive
new enhanced chart capabilities.



Pilot My-Cast℠Pilot My-Cast by Garmin is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather
application for display on compatible mobile phones. Compared to other aviation weather mobile phone applications, Pilot My-Cast
is unique because it receives aviation data directly from the National Weather Service, Environment Canada, and Federal Aviation
Administration. Pilot My-Cast is available for both the iPhone and iPad. In March 2011, Garmin announced a new version of the Garmin
Pilot My-Cast application for Apple iOS-based devices that offers geo-referenced approach charts, secondary navigational capability
and optional integration with XM WX Weather.



SafeNav™
Powered

by Garmin™In March 2011, Garmin and I.D. Systems, Inc., a leading provider of wireless asset management technology,
announced the availability of SafeNav™ Powered by Garmin™, an on-vehicle, GPS-based navigation and alert system designed
to provide airport vehicle operators with real-time situational awareness, with the goal of avoiding accidental runway incursions.



Integrated avionics systems:



G5000™Announced in October 2010,the G5000is the first touchscreen-controlled
integrated glass avionics suite designed for FAR Part 25 business jets. The G5000, which is scalable for use in a wide range of
two-crew aircraft, from light jets to super-midsize and larger models, is designed specifically for crew-flown turbine aircraft
and combines a dual multi-sensor flight management system (FMS), touchscreen vehicle management units, and multi-pane cockpit displays.
These widescreen displays with touchscreen controls give pilots more useful information at their fingertips than ever before, such
as worldwide weather, Garmin’s synthetic vision technology (SVT™), aircraft synoptics, electronic flight charts, and
more.








G3000™Announced in October 2009, the G3000, which is designed for use in
FAR Part 23 turbine aircraft, isthe first touchscreen-controlled integrated flightdeck for light
turbine aircraft.  It features extra-wide 14.1-inch displays with split-screen MFD viewing functionality and PFD terrain simulation
in 3-D perspective with SVT™ Synthetic Vision Technology. In July 2010, Garmin announced a new stability augmentation function
for the G3000 (and its predecessor G1000) called Garmin’s Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system. This electronic
monitoring and correction technology forG3000and G1000
integrated flight decks works to assist the pilot in maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain
situations to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become
distracted, disoriented or incapacitated during flight. Garmin ESP will be offered as an option on select G3000 and G1000-equipped
aircraft.



G2000®Announced in March 2011,the G2000 is Garmin’s
premium glass flight deck for piston aircraft, bringing a touchscreen user interface, graphical flight synoptics, enhanced situational
awareness and more to the cockpit.As with the G3000 and G5000, the G2000 utilizes the GTC™
570 vehicle management system, a 5.7-inch diagonal touchscreen controller that uses a desktop-like menu interface with intuitive
icons. The GTC 570 allows for full control for radio management, audio management, flight management, weather systems management,
synoptics, and other vehicle systems. The touchscreen also enhances ease of use through functions like “back” and “home”
that let pilots quickly retrace their steps or return to the home screen. The GTC 570 vehicle management system uses patent pending,
infrared touchscreen technology, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is responding
to their input.



G1000®The G1000 integrates navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance
and engine information on large high-resolution color displays. The G1000 offers general aviation airplane manufacturers an easy-to-install
solution for flight displays and provides the aircraft owner the benefits of a state-of-the-art avionics system which relies on
modern technologies such as solid state components and bright, sunlight-readable TFT displays.



G1000H®In March 2011, Garmin announced theG1000H, an all-glass avionics
system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market. The G1000H provides important flight data, flight instrumentation,
navigation, communication, weather, terrain, traffic, identification, and diagnostics and maintenance computer, and presents it
digitally to the pilot on large, high-resolution displays.



G600The G600 brings the style and function of an all-glass integrated avionics suite to the retrofit
market forFAR Part 23Class I, II or III aircraft. The G600 incorporates two individual displays,
a PFD and MFD, in a customized package specifically designed for easy retrofit installation. The G600 is designed to communicate
and integrate with Garmin’s WAAS enabled panel mount products, and provides essential information such as attitude, air data,
weather, terrain and traffic. Garmin has received the FAA’s Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certification (AML STC)
for the G600, which will simplify certification for over 600 different aircraft models.   In May 2011 Garmin announced that
the FAA approved a Supplemental Type Certificate (STC)package for Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum
(RVSM) certification of the G600 installed in select aircraft. The STC package is available for G600 installations on the Cessna
441 Conquest II with an ARC 1000 autopilot, which enables Conquest II operators to fly RVSM flight profiles from Flight Level 290
to the aircraft’s maximum operating altitude. This allows Conquest II pilots to gain fuel savings, lower their carbon footprint,
increase range and give them the flexibility to fly above bad weather.








G500Designed specifically for FAR Part 23 Class I/Class II aircraft (single
and twin engine aircraft under 6,000 lbs.), the G500 is an affordable, dual-screen electronic flight display that works with a
pilot’s separate Garmin avionics stack to provide a fully TSO’d “glass cockpit” retrofit option. The G500
does not include all of the same standard functionality as the G600 (for example, the G500 does not offerSVT (Synthetic
Vision Technology) or a standard GAD 43 interface adapter in the standard package, but these features are available options).



G500HAn all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part
27 helicopter market.The G500H contains dual 6.5-inch LCD screens, mounted side-by-side in
a single bezel, which puts Primary Flight Display (PFD) and Multi-Function Display (MFD) capabilities right in front the helicopter
pilot. The G500H has been optimized for rotorcraft and offers features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™),
helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather
with NEXRAD, and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources.



G900X™An all-glass integrated avionics system specifically designed for kitplane builders of the Lancair
and Van’s RV-series aircraft.The G900X is a fully-customizable glass cockpit for installation
in experimental/kitbuilt and light sport aircraft. The G900X offers a customizable PFD/MFD combination that features one, two or
three all-glass displays; magnetometer; ADAHRS (combined air data and AHRS unit) and engine monitoring.



GDU 370/375Multifunction displays for the light sport retrofit and experimental aircraft markets.



Panel-mount aviation products:



GNS 400W Series

(3 models)The GNS 430W is the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) successor to Garmin’s popular GNS
430, which was the world’s first ‘‘all-in-one’’ IFR certified GPS navigation receiver/traditional
VHF navigation receiver/instrument landing systems receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver. Features available in different
400 series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation capabilities. In 2010, Garmin announced a newHelicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS)as an option for the GNS 430W/530W
series navigators. When added to the GNS 430W/530W, helicopter pilots will receive graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain
and obstacle conflicts along the flight path.



GTN 650 and 750In March 2011 Garmin announced the GTN 650 and 750, which are the successors to the GNS 430W and
530W.The GTN 650 and GTN 750 feature new capabilities for GPS/NAV/COM systems like touchscreen operation,
graphical flight planning with victor airways and high-altitude jet routes, remote transponder, remote audio control (750 series
only), SafeTaxi® and electronic chart capabilities (750 series only).



GTS™ TAS
and

TCAS I SystemsThe GTS 800 series of traffic avoidance products combines active and
passive surveillance data to pinpoint specifictraffic threats. The systems use Garmin’s
patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlate automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets.The GTS 800 TAS is a lower-cost system, offering 40 watts of transmit power and a range of up to 12 nautical miles. The
GTS 820 TAS delivers 250 watts of transmit power and up to 40 nautical miles of interrogation range. The GTS 850 TCAS I satisfies
all TCAS I collision avoidance criteria for higher-capability turboprops and jets. It features the same 250 watt performance as
the GTS 820, and also meets the FAA’s TCAS I certification criteria








GI-102A & 106ACourse deviation indicators (CDIs). The GI-106A is a course deviation indicator that displays rectilinear
needle movements indicating where an aircraft is located relative to a VOR radial, GPS course, or instrument landing system signal,
and contains integral GPS, NAV and VLOC mode annunciators.



GMA

(5 models)The GMA 340 is a feature-rich audio panel with six-place stereo intercom and independent pilot/co-pilot
communications capabilities. The GMA 347 has automatic squelch, digital clearance recorder, and a full-duplex telephone interface.
The GMA 340 and 347 are both TSO’d. The GMA 240 is a versatile, non-TSO’d audio panel designed for experimental and
light sport aircraft.In March 2011 Garmin announced the GMA 350 and GMA 350H
audio panels. Designed for fixed wing and rotorcraft, respectively, the GMA 350 and 350H have industry-first features like voice
recognition, 3D spatial audio processing, advanced auto squelch, and ambient noise based volume adjustment so that pilots’
workload is decreased while increasing their situational awareness.



GTX™ 330 & 330DFAA-certified Mode S transponders with data link capability, including local air traffic information
at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS). These transponders may also be optionally upgraded to provide
1090 MHz Extended Squitter (ES) transmission capabilities, which will increase situational awareness once the Automatic Dependent
Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) system is fully implemented.



GTX 327 & 328FAA-certified transponders which transmit altitude or flight identification to air traffic control
radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance devices and feature solid-state construction for longer life. The
GTX 327 offers a digital display with timing functions. The 328 is designed exclusively for Europe and satisfies the European requirement
for a Mode S solution that meets the reduced certification requirements for the VFR Mode S mandate.



GDL 90The GDL 90 was the first airborne Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) product certified
by the FAA to TSO C145A standards. The GDL 90 allows pilots in the cockpit and air traffic controllers on the ground to “see”
aircraft traffic with much more precision than has ever been possible before without the costly infrastructure of ground based
tracking radar. The GDL 90 relies on the infrastructure that is part of the FAA’s NextGen program. This program is currently
under development with implementation of the ground-based portion of the ADS-B network taking place throughout the U.S.A. Additional
installations of the ADS-B ground stations are planned. The ground stations can track aircraft movement and are also used to broadcast
traffic and weather services direct to the cockpit. Pilots equipped with the GDL 90 and operating within the ground station coverage
area will receive aircraft traffic and real-time weather information free of charge.



GSR 56The GSR 56 is Garmin’s newest datalink product. It provides
pilots with access to on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position tracking through
the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). In addition to the many on-demand satellite weather features, the GSR 56
offers a worldwide tracking solution that continuously monitors an aircraft’s status enroute. It can automatically provide
GPS-referenced position reports at predetermined intervals so those on the ground can track a plane’s flight status and position.








GDL 69 and 69AThe GDL 69 offers the ability to provide real-time weather information to the aircraft which can
be displayed on one of several panel-mounted devices, such as the GNS 430W, GNS 530W, GTN 650, GTN 750, GMX200, G500, G500H, G600,
as well as fully integrated G1000/G2000/G3000/G5000 systems. The GDL 69 and GDL 69A receive real-time weather information broadcast
by the XM WX Satellite radio system. In addition, the GDL 69A expands the utility of the system by providing CD quality audio provided
by XM Satellite Radio (separate subscriptions for weather data and audio required).



GMX 200™A large (6.5-inch) sunlight-readable, high-resolution, multi-function display.



SL 30 and SL 40The SL30 is a compact VHF navigation and communications unit that combines a 760-channel VHF communications
radio with 200-channel glideslope and localizer receivers. The SL40 is a 760-channel VHF communications radio only. Both the SL30
and SL40 feature 10 watt communications transmitters.



GWX™ 68The GWX 68 is an all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitter that brings real-time weather to Garmin’s
newest multi-function displays.



Sales and Marketing



Garmin’s non-aviation
products are sold through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors in approximately 100
countries who meet our sales and customer service qualifications.No single customer’s purchases
represented 10% or more of Garmin’s consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. Marketing support is
provided geographically from Garmin’s offices in Olathe, Kansas (North, South and Central America),in the U.K. (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa), France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Sweden, Denmark,
Finland, Belgium, Norway, Netherlands, Poland, Brazil, Australia (also covering New Zealand), China and in Taiwan (Asia). Garmin’s
distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards
to ensure end-user satisfaction.



Garmin’s U.S. consumer
product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales managers
and in-house sales associates. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors include:



·Best Buy—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics
retailers;



·Amazon.com—internet retailer;



·Costco—an international chain
of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name merchandise;



·Halford’s—a large European retailer specializing
in car parts and accessories;



·Petra—a large distributor who sells to a wide range of
dealers;



·Target—one of the nation’s largest general merchandise
retailers;



·Wal-Mart—the world’s largest mass retailer; and



·Wynit—a large distributor which sells to a wide range
of dealers.



Garmin’s Europe, Middle
East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors
who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country
subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location.
Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort.








Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation
portable products are sold through select aviation distributors around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products,
also through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmin’s largest aviation distributors include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co.,
Sportsman’s Market, TGH Aviation, Sarasota Avionics and Elliott Aviation. Avionics distributors have the training, equipment
and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.



In
addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs). In the consumer market, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or
through tier 2 sourcing. These OEMs include Chrysler, Toyota, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, Ford, BMW and BMW Motorrad,
Honda, Mercedes Benz, Smart Car, Peugeot, Hyundai, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, Volvo, Bombardier, and Polaris. In 2011, Chrysler introduced
Garmin navigation on the 2012 Jeep Grand Cherokee and also announced Garmin navigation on their new uConnect Touch system in partnership
with Panasonic, which will launch on select 2012 models.





Competition



The market for navigation,
communications and information products is highly competitive. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the
market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and
availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas.



Garmin believes that its
principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (“MiTAC”) (which
distributes products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor
product lines are Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (“Lowrance”)
and Delorme. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Nike, Inc., Polar Electro Oy, Suunto Oy, Timex
Corp., and Bryton Corp. For marine chartplotter products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Raymarine Inc. (“Raymarine”),
Furuno Electronic Company (“Furuno”), and Simrad and Lowrance (subsidiaries of Navico). For Garmin’s fishfinder/depth
sounder product lines, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Lowrance, Raymarine, the Humminbird division of Johnson
Outdoors, Inc., and Furuno. For Garmin’s general aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be
Honeywell, Inc., Avidyne Corporation, L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc., Universal Avionics Systems
Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, Aspen Avionics, and Free Flight Systems. For Garmin’s Family Radio Service and General
Mobile Radio Service product line, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Motorola Solutions, Inc., Cobra Electronics
Corporation and Midland Radio Corporation.








Research and Development



Garmin’s product innovations
are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering and
manufacturing teams. Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 2,558 people
worldwide as of December 31, 2011. Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely
with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and
cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.
Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition
it into manufacturing.



Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures
on research and development over the last three fiscal years.





December 31,December 25,December 26,($'s in thousands)201120102009Research and devlopment$298,584$277,261$238,378Percent of net sales10.8%10.3%8.1%





Manufacturing and Operations



Garmin believes that one
of its core competencies and strengths is its manufacturing capability at its Sijhih, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities, its
Olathe, Kansas facility, and its Salem, Oregon facility. Garmin believes that its vertically integrated approach has provided it
the following benefits with respect to all products other than a few select marine products (VHF radios and AIS receivers), and
our accessory products, all of which are also manufactured by one or more third parties.



Reduced time-to-market.Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmin’s products are introduced to production at an early development
stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass production begins. In this manner,
Garmin attempts to reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries.



Design and process
optimization.Garmin uses its manufacturing resources to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in order
to achieve higher efficiency, improved quality and yields, lower cost and better value for customers. Garmin’s ability to
fully explore product design and manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to minimize size and weight
in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and rugged.



Logistical agility.Operating our own manufacturing and distribution facilities helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages
and long component lead times which are common in the electronics industry. Many products can be re-engineered to bypass component
shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can be delivered to market quickly. Garmin reacts rapidly to changes in market demand
by striving to maintain a safety stock of long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to another.
Operating our own manufacturing facilities also allows Garmin to quickly adjust the mix of product production, helping to foster
faster delivery response to the customer.



Garmin’s design, manufacturing,
distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality
standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations in Taiwan and Olathe
have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. In addition, Garmin’s aviation operations
have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.








Garmin International, Inc.,
Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO14001
standard. This certification recognizes that Garmin’s subsidiaries have systems and processes in place to minimize or prevent
harmful effects on the environment and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.



Materials



Although most components
essential to Garmin’sbusiness are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components,
including, but not limited to, microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), and certain  application-specific
integrated circuits (“ASICs”) are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects
Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including,
but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject
at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.



Garmin
and other participants in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries
also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition,
Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication and consumer
electronics industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source
until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product
uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have



Seasonality



Our sales are subject to
significant seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally significantly higher in the fourth quarter, due
to increased demand for automotive/mobile products during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter,
due to increased demand during the spring and summer marine season and the Father’s Day/graduation buying season. Sales of
consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much
seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the
strongest.



Backlog



Our sales are generally
of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.



Intellectual Property



Our success and ability
to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often
relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography
technology for use in our products from various sources.








As of January 23, 2011,
Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 600 patents and 400 trademark registrations.  Garmin was selected as a
constituent of the 2011/2012 Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index which recognizes companies with high intellectual property value.
We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. 
Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in
its proprietary technologies.



There is no assurance that
our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is
also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will
preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity
and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.



Regulations



The telecommunications industry
is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with Federal Communications
Commission (“FCC”) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC and
comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply
with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements
to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely affect our business. In
addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft” are required to be certified
by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be
used in an aircraft.





Environmental Matters



Garmin’s operations
are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances
and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
Currently, we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.








Environmental regulation of Garmin’s products
is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our
products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible
for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance with current environmental
laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully
determined and could be substantial.



Garmin has implemented
multiple Environmental Management System (“EMS”) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards,
and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility,
Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.



Regulatory and “Green
Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing, particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly
design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established.  Garmin
is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.



Employees



As of December 31, 2011,
Garmin had 9,229 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,403 were in the United States, 62 were in Canada, 4,403 were
in Taiwan, 1,023 were in Europe, and 338 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil
and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.



