Item 1.Business





Garmin was incorporated
in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin
Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate
a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company
of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation
of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).
Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common
share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (“CHF”)
per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.








Garmin’s annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by
Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC
maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.



The reference to Garmin’s
website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information
should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K.



Company Overview



Garmin is a leading,
worldwide provider of navigation, communication and information devices and applications, most of which are enabled by Global
Positioning System (“GPS”) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse family of hand-held,
portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile,
outdoor, fitness, marine, and general aviation markets.



Overview of the Global Positioning System



The Global Positioning
System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite
technology. The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring
stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment
program to ensure continuous global system coverage. Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government.



Prior to May 2000,
the U.S. Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability
(‘‘SA’’) for national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a radius of 100
meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December
2004, the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA again and is committed to preventing hostile
use of GPS through regional denial of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS receiver can calculate
its position to an accuracy of approximately 10 meters or less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications.



The accuracy and utility
of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (‘‘WAAS’’)
comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United
States and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute,
terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility
of WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS system had achieved
initial operating capability and that the system was available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics
equipment. Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites.



Japan’s MTSAT-based
Satellite Augmentation System (“MSAS”) achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal and approach navigation
for aviation on September 27, 2007. The European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (“SoL”)
service achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal, and approach navigation on March 2, 2011.








Recent Developments in the Company’s
Business



Since the inception
of its business, Garmin has delivered over 112 million products, which includes the delivery of over 15 million products during
2012.



Automotive/Mobile
Product Introductions



In
April 2012, Garmin announced that it will provide a fully integrated, factory-installed infotainment system for most American
2013 model year Suzuki vehicles



In September 2012,
Garmin announced thenext generation of its award-recognized navigation system built into various
Chrysler vehicles.



Outdoor Product
Introductions



Garmin expanded its
line of products for golfers in 2012 with the introduction of the Approach® S3 touchscreen GPS golf watch that comes preloaded
with 27,000 worldwide golf courses..



In
July 2012, Garmin announced the fēnix™ GPS watch foroutdoor
activities such as mountaineering, hiking, cycling, hunting and backpacking.In July 2012, Garmin
announced the Alpha™ integrated tracking and training system for sporting dogs.



Fitness
Product Introductions



Garmin
added to its line of products for fitness enthusiasts in 2012 with the Garmin Swim™, its first training watch designed specifically
for swimmers that lets users track stroke type, stroke count, distance, pace, and lengths. Garmin also announced the Forerunner®
10 entry-level running watch.



Marine Product
Introductions



During
2012 Garmin introduced the echoMAP™50s and 70s combination fishfinders/ chartplotters and the GPSMAP®500 and 700 line of chartplotters and combination chartplotter/sonar units.



Aviation Product
Introductions



Among Garmin’s
aviation product introductions in 2012 were a comprehensive suite of certified and portable ADS-B solutions as well as the GWXTM70 doppler-enabled weather radar, the G5000HTMintegrated flight deck
for twin turbine, medium lift helicopters and new features for the GTN series of touchscreen avionics.



Products



Garmin has achieved a leading market position
and a history of growth in revenues and profits by offering ergonomically designed, user-friendly products with innovative features
and designs covering a broad range of applications and price points. Garmin’s target markets are currently broken down into
its five main business segments – automotive/mobile, outdoor, fitness, marine and aviation.



Automotive/Mobile



Garmin offers a broad range of automotive
navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market. Garmin believes that
its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. The table below includes a
sampling of the primary automotive and mobile products and applications that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.








nüvi®

(34 models)



fleet™ 590In January 2013, Garmin announced
    the fleet 590, which is Garmin’s first portable and connected fleet management GPS that combines the necessities of
    fleet management with the simplicity of Garmin navigation. The fleet 590 delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch fleet
    system for business owners and their drivers.



zūmo®

(4 models)Motorcycle-specific navigators with
    features including a glove-friendly touch screen with high bright sunlight-readable display, motorcycle mount, vibration-tested
    design, and Bluetooth wireless technology. A microSD™ (secure digital) card slot allows riders to share their favorite
    places and rides with fellow zūmo riders. The zūmo 660LM and 665LM feature 3-D building view, lane assist with junction
    view, a digital fuel gauge and lifetime map updates. The 665LM includes an antenna for XM Satellite Radio®, XM NavWeather®
    and XM NavTraffic® (subscription is required for XM content). In June 2012 Garmin announced the zūmo 350LM, which
    is light-weight, includes lifetime map updates and transmits guidance information via compatible Bluetooth headsets/helmets.



dēzl™

(4 models)Navigators designed exclusively for
    the over-the road trucking industry.The dēzl  features a large display, a built-in
    loudspeaker, and offers a number of additional user-friendly features including truck-specific points of interest (POIs),
    hours, fuel and mileage logging, truck speed limits and advanced navigation and route planning and calculation with Garmin’s
    nüRoute™ technology. In August 2012 Garmin announced the dēzl 760LMT which is Garmin’s first trucking
    navigator with a seven-inch display and a new Active Lane Guidance feature that helps trucks navigate intersections and exits.
    The dēzl 760LMT also includes lifetime map and traffic updates, and has the ability to receive real-time information,
    such as fuel prices, traffic camera images and weather through Smartphone Link.








StreetPilot®

For Windows® Phone

ApplicationThis smartphone application is designed
    specifically for Windows phones, and provides users turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other popular Garmin navigation
    features.



Streetpilot Onboard

ApplicationThis
    application is designed specifically for Apple iPhone and iPad devices, andit turns such devices into a premium GPS
    navigator with turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions that speaks street names and automatically calculates a new route if
    the user gets off track.



Smartphone LinkAllows
    any Bluetooth enabled 2012 or 2013 Garmin nüvi and an Android smartphone to communicate and share data. Among other functionalities,
    the application lets nüvi users add live services, such as traffic information, traffic camera images, weather and fuel
    prices to their navigation device, utilizing the smartphone's mobile data plan. Smartphone Link is available at no cost in
    the Android Market and includes several free live services as well as premium content available through subscriptions.



NAVIGON

MobileNavigatorThe
    NAVIGON MobileNavigator application transforms a user’s iPhone into a mobile navigation device, and provides useful
    information such as route distance, time of arrival, motorway services, gas stations, speed limits and border crossings.



NAVIGON

for

Windows
    Phone 7With
    NAVIGON for Windows Phone 7, users can turn their Windows mobile phones into a mobile navigation device with features such
    as text-to-speech spoken turn-by-turn navigation instructions, Reality View Pro junction information and depictions, and Lane
    Assist Pro.



NAVIGON

MobileNavigator

AndroidWith
    NAVIGON MobileNavigator Android, users can turn their Android mobile phones into a mobile navigation device with features
    such as text-to-speech spoken turn-by-turn navigation directions, Reality View Pro junction information and depictions, Lane
    Assist Pro, and live real-time weather and traffic information.



Outdoor



The
table below includes a sampling of the outdoor products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.



Dakota®(2 models)The Dakota series is Garmin’s
    entry level series of handheld GPS navigators with built-in mapping. The Dakota 10 is a rugged, palm-sized navigator that
    offers a touchscreen display, high-sensitivity GPS, and a built-in worldwide basemap. The Dakota 20 adds a barometric altimeter,
    3-axis electronic compass, and a microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps. The 20 model also allows a user to
    share waypoints, tracks, routes and geocaches wirelessly with other compatible Dakota, Foretrex®, Oregon® and Colorado®
    users.








Oregon®

(8 models)In January 2013, Garmin announced
    the all new Oregon 600/600t and 650/650t, which offer a rugged, sunlight-readable, touchscreen along with a built-in basemap
    with shaded relief, a high-sensitivity receiver, barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, microSD™ card slot,
    picture viewer and more.The high-end Oregon 650 and 650t models each come with a built-in
    8 megapixel autofocus digital camera, and each photo taken by these devices is automatically geotagged with the location of
    where it was taken, allowing the user to navigate back to that exact spot in the future.



Rino®

(4 models)Handheld two-way Family Radio Service
    (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) radios that integrate two-way voice communications with GPS navigation. Features
    include patented “peer-to-peer position reporting” so you can transmit your location to another Rino radio. The
    Rino 120 offers an FRS/GMRS radio plus GPS navigator with an internal basemap and MapSource compatibility for street-level
    mapping.The Rino 610 is an entry level 1-watt FRS/GMRS radio handheld GPS radio is powered by
    four AA batteries and comes pre-loaded with a worldwide basemap. The Rino 650 and 655t 5-watt FRS/GMRS radios have a communication
    range of up to 20 miles and have evolved to include a 2.6” glove-friendly touchscreen and include features such as a
    barometric altimeter, 3-axis tilt compensated compass and NOAA weather radio.



fēnix™In
    July 2012 Garmin announced the fēnix, which is Garmin’s first GPS wrist watch for outdoorsmen, such as mountaineers,
    hikers, cyclists, hunters and backpackers. The fēnix provides comprehensive navigation and tracking functionalities,
    as well as trip information, such as heading, elevation and weather changes.



Montana™

(3
    models)The Montana features
    a ruggedized design with multiple mounting and battery options, dual-orientation and screen layout options and support for
    a wide range of Garmin cartography. It has a barometric altimeter for elevation profiling and ability to profile the route
    ahead using an included worldwide elevation model. The included 3-axis compass gives it a heading while standing still or
    when not held level. Montana 600 is the base model andfeatures a 4-inch color touchscreen dual orientation display
    and supports multiple mapping options likeBirdsEye Satellite Imagery,BlueChart®
    g2andTOPO U.S. 24K. Montana has key features for the outdoors such as a 3-axis
    tilt-compensated compass and barometric altimeter. Montana 650 adds a 5 megapixel camera, and Montana 650t adds preloaded
    TOPO U.S. 100K maps.



eTrex®

(4 models)Evolving from one of the world’s
    most reliable and popular handhelds,in 2011 this entry level option was given enhanced ergonomics, an improved interface,
    paperless geocaching and in certainmodels, a 65k color screen with expanded mapping capabilities.
    These additions, along with up to 25 hours of battery life, make the eTrex more versatile and user-friendly, while maintaining
    its durability.








GPSMAP®62

(5 models)Rugged
    outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and outdoors enthusiasts. The basic GPSMAP 62 includes a built-in
    worldwide basemap with shaded relief. The GPSMAP 62s adds a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass and wireless connectivity
    for sharing routes, tracks, waypoints and geocaches between other compatible Garmin handhelds. The GPSMAP 62s also includes
    a barometric altimeter that tracks changes in pressure to pinpoint the precise altitude. In addition to these features, the
    GPSMAP 62st includes preloaded 100K topographic maps for the entire United States (or preloaded 50K topographic mapping of
    Canada for the Canadian version).The GPSMAP 62stc features a 3-axis tilt-compensated compass, a barometric altimeter,
    5 megapixel autofocus camera with photo navigation, preloaded TOPO U.S. 100K maps and supports custom maps and BirdsEye™
    Satellite imagery (subscription required). The GPSMAP 62sc features a 3-axis tilt-compensated compass, a barometric altimeter,
    a 5 megapixel autofocus camera with photo navigation, and support for Custom Maps and BirdsEye™ Satellite imagery (subscription
    required).



Approach®

(5 models)The Approach G5 is a waterproof,
    touchscreen, handheld GPS for golfers that features over 19,500 preloaded golf course maps. Approach G5 uses a high-sensitivity
    GPS receiver to measure individual shot distances and show the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A statistic-tracking
    feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics.The Approach G6 is a sleek,
    slim glove-friendly device weighing just over three ounces that comes preloaded with over 29,500 worldwide courses.
    The Approach G3 is a smaller, lighter version of the G5, yet still offers over 19,500 preloaded courses.The
    Approach S1 and S3 are wearable golf watches that display precise yardages to the front, back and middle of greens. The Approach
    S3 comes preloaded with over 29,500 courses, has a touchscreen and includes manual pin positioning, which allows users to
    tap and drag the flag on the green for precise yardage to the flag.

Astro®

(1 model)High sensitivity GPS-enabled dog tracking
    system. The Astro 320 is designed to pinpoint up to ten dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and
    a handheld system. The system also provides a Dog Tracker page and a Covey Countertmto assist the hunter. It is loaded with many of the features of our outdoor devices including: barometric altimeter,
    electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior., The Astro 320is fully compatible with Garmin’s DC 20, DC 30, and DC 40 dog tracking collars and accessories. In addition to
    the pre-installed basemap, the Astro 320 can be loaded with 100k or 24k Topo maps or photorealisticBirdsEye™
    Satellite Imagery(annual subscription required).  The Astro 320 has 1.7 gigabytes of on-board memory available
    for loading maps, and a microSD slot for pre-loadedcards.



Alpha™
    100/TT™10Alpha combines proven Garmin GPS dog
    tracking technology with Tri-Tronics® electronic dog training. The integrated handheld system allows users to track and
    train their dogs in the field from a range of up to 9 miles, delivering their exact position as often as every 2.5 seconds.
    A single Alpha 100 can track up to 20 dogs or fellow hunters when using either additional Alpha 100 handhelds or TT 10 track
    and train dog devices.



Bark
    Limiter™In
    January 2013, Garmin announced the Bark Limiter, which is an intuitive electronic bark correction device that was designed
    by Garmin using proven Tri-Tronics;dog training technology. Bark Limiter uses accelerometer-based
    bark identification to distinguish between barking and other vocalizations.



Delta™In
    January 2013, Garmin announced the Delta series of training collars for dogs. Using proven Tri-Tronics technology, the Delta
    remote training device includes an easy-to-read LCD screen, intuitive, 3-button front controller, separate side buttons for
    level adjustment and dog selection. Delta can also remember an individual dog’s training settings and is optimized to
    work on all dog breeds and coat lengths.








GTU™ 10 GPS TrackerA GPS locator
    that combines a web-based tracking service with GPS technology so the user can keep track his or her children, pets and property
    by monitoring the device’s location through eitherGarmin’s secure website using any computer or with the
    freeGarmin Tracker™app.OpenCaching AppAllows users to participate in geocaching
    by hiding, finding, logging and sharing cache information from their smartphone.



Fitness



The
table below includes a sampling of the fitness products and applications that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the
world.



Forerunner®

(7 models)

The Forerunner
    610 is Garmin’s flag ship running watch. It has a touch-screen and includes Virtual Racer™, which allows runners
    to race against their previous best times, using data stored on the watch. In August 2012, Garmin announced the Forerunner
    10, which is an entry level watch for runners, joggers and walkers of all levels. The Forerunner 10 provides users the most
    essential data – time, distance and pace – while also identifying their personal records along the way.

is water-resistant to
    50m and tracks biking and running data (and optional heart rate data).

all-in-one GPS-enabled device that provides
    detailed swim metrics and tracks distance, speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling. Designed for both
    open water and pool swimming, Forerunner 910XT is water resistant to 50 meters and offers extensive swim metrics, including
    swim distance, stroke identification, stroke count and pool lengths.



Edge®

(5 models)Integrated personal training systems
    designed for cyclists. The Edge 200 measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, altitude and more.
    The Edge 500 is geared toward performance-driven cyclists and tracks the cyclist’s distance, speed, location and elevation
    with high sensitivity GPS, and also tracks the cyclist’s heart rate with an optional heart rate monitor (sold separately).
    The Edge 800 added a touchscreen interface to the Edge family of products. In January 2013, Garmin announced the Edge 810
    and 510, which are Garmin’s first dedicated cycling devices with real-time connectivity that combine the most popular
    features of the Edge 800 and 500 while adding advanced connected features through a smartphone, such as live tracking, social
    media sharing and real-time weather updates.



Garmin Swim™In June 2012, Garmin announced Garmin
    Swim, which is a watch that is designed for swimming pool use and allows users to track stroke type, stroke count, distance,
    pace and lengths. Users can also upload their swim data to Garmin Connect, where they can store, analyze and share the data.








Garmin
    Fit™ ApplicationGarmin’s
    first fitness app that lets users track metrics such as speed, pace, distance, time, calories, and with optional Garmin accessories
    displays heart rate and cadence. Garmin Fit also maps and automatically uploads workouts to Garmin’s Garmin Connect,
    which is Garmin’s website where users can track their workout data.Garmin
    ConnectMobile ApplicationGarmin Connect Mobile turns a user’s Garmin Edge 510 or 810
    cycling computer into a connected device capable of sharing the user’s activities as they happen and wirelessly uploading
    them toGarmin Connect, where the user can store, analyze and share them. The app also
    provides real-time weather data and allows users to wirelessly download courses to use on their rides.



Marine



Garmin’s marine
products include handhelds, network products and multifunction displays, fixed-mount GPS/chartplotter products, instruments, fishfinders,
radar, autopilots, VHF radios, marine watches, marine networking products, and sounder products. The table below includes a sampling
of some of the marine products that Garmin currently offers to consumers.



Marine
Chartplotters and Networking Products



GPSMAP®7000
    series

(4 models)The
    GPSMAP 7000 series of large format touchscreen multi-function displays include Garmin’s G Motion technology, which delivers
    ultra-smooth map panning and zooming with virtually seamless graphical updating in all dimensions.  The 7000 series chartplotters
    also feature a low-level backlight display and a backlit keypad for use inlow-light conditions without compromising
    vision. The GPSMAP 7x15 series offers a large 15-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable touchscreen display,
    and is offered in two models – the GPSMAP 7015 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP
    7215, which comes pre-loaded with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas.   Mariners
    can also opt for the same XGA resolution in a 12-inch diagonal screen configuration with the GPSMAP 7012 and GPSMAP 7212 models,
    which offer a worldwide basemap and coastal charts respectively.  All models are compatible with an optional wireless
    remote and a wireless mouse for additional flexibility and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard
    sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar,
    XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data).



GPSMAP 6000 series

(4 models)Like the 7000 series, the 6000 series
    key multi-function models also offer Garmin’s G Motion technology and the features to improve visibility in low-light
    conditions.The GPSMAP 6x12 series features a traditional soft-key interface with an alphanumeric
    keypad and a 12-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable display.  Within this family, Garmin offers the
    GPSMAP 6012 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 6212 with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts
    and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas preloaded.  For a smaller display, the GPSMAP 6x08 series offers an 8-inch VGA (640
    x 480) sunlight readable display with a soft-key interface. The models in the GPSMAP 6000 series are all compatible with an
    optional wireless remote and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and
    Garmin Marine Network connectivity.








GPSMAP 5200 series/

5000 series

(6 models)These touch-screen multifunction
    displays for the Garmin Marine Network (a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data)
    offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color. The 5212 (which offers a 12-inch diagonal display) and the 5208
    (which offers an 8-inch diagonal display) come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and
    are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite
    imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance. The 5215 and 5015 offer 15-inch diagonal sunlight-readable
    touchscreen displays.



GPSMAP 4000 series/

4200 series (6 models)These key multifunctional displays
    for the Garmin Marine Network offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color. The 4212 (which offers a 12-inch diagonal
    display) and 4208 (which offers an 8-inch diagonal display) come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer
    Charts, and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution
    satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance. The 4210 and 4010 feature 10.4-inch diagonal
    sunlight- readable displays.



GPSMAP 6x0and 7x0 series

(6 models)The 6x0 series chartplotters offer
    a WVGA touchscreen display and provide navigational support for both marine mode and automotive mode (when loaded with optional
    City Navigator® NT road maps for North America). The 7x0 models, which offer a 7-inch diagonal display, aretouchscreen
    controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters offering radar capability and built-in sonar.



GPSMAP
    500 and 700

Series
    (8 models)In
    November 2012, Garmin announced the new GPSMAP 500 and 700 series. The GPSMAP 741 and 721 are 7 inch WVGA multi-touch chartplotters
    with internal high sensitivity 10Hz GPS/GLONASS receivers, pitch-to-zoom capability, preloaded mapping (the 741 is preloaded
    with US coastal and lake mapping, and the 721 is preloaded with a worldwide basemap), media integration and autopilot, radar
    support, and NMEA 2000 and wireless connectivity. The GPSMAP 741xs and 721xs include HD-ID sonar with CHIRP capability. The
    GPSMAP 547 and 527 are 5 inch chartplotters with internal high sensitivity 10Hz GPS/GLONASS receivers and preloaded mapping
    (the 547 is preloaded with US coastal and lake mapping, and the 527 is preloaded with a worldwide basemap). The GPSMAP 547xs
    and 527xs include HD-ID sonar with CHIRP capability.



GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1

series (11models)Building
    upon the success of the GPSMAP 400 and 500 series, the new chartplotters in the GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1 series come standard with
    an internal high-sensitivity GPS receiver that allows for faster acquisition times and better satellite tracking so that boaters
    are able to acquire and maintain a GPS fix more easily. In addition, these units boast an improved, high-speed digital design
    that will increase map drawing and panning speeds. The sounder (“s”) version of each model comes with a powerful
    dual-frequency transducer that clearly illustrates depth contours, fish targets and structures in either fresh or salt water.
    Many of the new models in this series are also NMEA 2000 certified and can interface with Garmin’s full lineup of NMEA
    2000 marine sensors and autopilots, as well as many other third-party sensors.








GPSMAP4x1

series (4 models)With
    a 4-inch QVGA sunlight-readable display, the GPSMAP 4x1 series was designed for the boater who wants high performance in a
    small package. These units feature a high-sensitivity GPS receiver and faster processors, and are offered with the same cartography
    configuration as the GPSMAP 5x1 series. Likewise, the GPSMAP 4x1s series is also available with a built-in sonar with a 500-watt
    RMS dual-frequency transducer for offshore use and a 400-watt RMS with a dual beam transducer for inland use. For satellite
    weather and radio data, the GPSMAP 441 and 421 are also compatible with the GXM 51 receiver.



echoMap™

Chartplotter/fishfinder

combo series (2 models)In November 2012, Garmin announced
    the echoMap 50s and 70s, which are chartplotter/fishfinder combinations with a 5 inch display, 10 Hz GPS/GLONASS and HD-ID
    sonar.



GSD 22, 24

and 26These “black-box” sounders
    interface with Garmin display units and chartplotters and enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder
    functions in a remote mounted package.



GMS 10The GMS 10 Network Port Expander
    is the "nerve center" of the Garmin Marine Network. This 100-Mbit switch is designed to support the connection of
    multiple sensors to theGarmin Marine Network.



Other Marine Products



GMI™ 10The GMI 10 is a NMEA 2000 and NMEA
    0183 compliant instrument that displays data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Mariners can use the GMI 10 to display
    instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction
    and more, depending upon what sensors are connected.



GPSMAP 78sc

Marine-friendly
    GPS handheld featuring a new contemporary industrial design with rubber side grips. The GPSMAP 78sc includes high-end features
    such as a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography
    for the coastal United States.



VHF Marine Radios

(4 models)This series of marine
    radios offers differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners. The VHF 100 isanentry-level, NMEA 0183 compatible VHF marine radio. The VHF 200 is NMEA 2000 compatible. The next step up is the VHF 300,
    which is designed for 35+ foot boats and is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible and offers multi-station support. Also designed
    for 35+ foot boats, the VHF 300 AIS is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all
    AIS channels at the same time.








Marine

Autopilot Systems

(7 models)



Standalone Fishfinders

(7 models)Garmin offers 7 different standalone
    fishfinder options spanning various price points. The latest addition to Garmin’s fishfinder lineup is the echo™
    fishfinder series, a line of standalone fishfinders that all offer an updated look and new Garmin HD-ID™ target tracking
    technology. The echo™ line ranges in price points from models with grayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C,
    which features a video-quality 640x480 pixel 5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish arch
    display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet.



Radar

(9 models)Garmin offers both radomes and open
    array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double
    as the radar screen. The GMR™ 18 is a digital radome product with a 4 kilowatt radar with 36 nm range that is 0.45 m
    in diameter and comes with an antenna with 5.0° beamwidth. The GMR 404 and 406 open array radar scanners provide even
    greater clarity and a 72 nautical mile range. The GMR 18 HD and GMR 24 HD radomes feature digital signal processing providing
    sharper radar imagery and improved target separation. The newestgeneration of open-array digital
    radar scanners are the GMR™ 1204/1206 xHD, the GMR 604/606 xHD and the GMR 404/406 xHD models, which transmit with 12,
    6 and 4 kilowatts of power respectively. All six of these open-array scanners have a maximum effective range of 72 nautical
    miles.



quatix™On
    January 17, 2013 Garmin announced the quatix, which is Garmin’s first GPS watch designed for mariners, both power and
    sail. The quatix combines pivotal marine features and provides both navigation and sailing capabilities while integrating
    Garmin’s GPS technology and interface.

BlueChart®Mobile

ApplicationIn February 2012, Garmin announced
    the BlueChart Mobile application for Apple iPad and iPhone devices. The application provides mariners the features and BlueChart
    data included on our Garmin chartplotters on their iPad or iPhone devices.



Nexus
    MarineProductsIn
    September 2012, Garmin acquired Nexus Marine AB (now known as Garmin Stockholm AB), a leading supplier of instrumentation
    for the sailing and yachting market. Nexus designs and manufactures sailing instrumentation systems, and it also supplies
    binoculars, accessories and Silva branded marine compasses.








Aviation



Garmin’s aviation
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems,
terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products, audio panels, cockpit
datalink systems and more.



Garmin’s aviation
products are sold in both new aircraft/helicopters and the retrofit market where existing aircraft/helicopters are fitted with
the latest electronics from Garmin’s broad product line.



Garmin offers its range
of avionics to leading General Aviation aircraft manufacturers such as the Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Diamond Aircraft
Industries, Embraer, Piper Aircraft, Inc., DAHER- SOCATA and Quest Aircraft through the installation of the G1000 integrated flight
deck as original equipment aboard new aircraft. This system integrates attitude, heading, air data, navigation, communication,
engine monitoring, autopilot, and other aircraft functions into a single cohesive system which interfaces with the flight crew
using a set of large, bright TFT displays. Garmin has expanded the G1000 certifications to the helicopter market with the G1000H,
a version of the G1000 specifically designed for helicopters. Garmin has also announced its next generation integrated flight
deck systems, the G2000, G3000 and G5000, which have been selected by aircraft manufacturers such as Cessna Aircraft Company,
Bombardier, and Honda Aircraft Corporation.



The table below includes
a sampling of some of the aviation products currently offered by Garmin:



Handheld and portable aviation
products:



aera®
    series

(6
    models)Combines the latest aviation portable
    with a full-featured automotive GPS, allowing pilots to transition between aviation to automotive mode with one touch.Featuring
    a 4.3-inch QVGA wide-format display with touchscreen interface, all aera models come with preloaded automotive maps, a built-in
    terrain/obstacles aviation database, patented Panel Page instrument display, and other features.When in aviation mode,
    pilots see colorful icons that use intuitive pictures and labels to indicate their function.As
    Garmin’s flagship portable aviation product, the aera 796 incorporates the popular features of the GPSMAP® 696,
    while also adding new capabilities such as a touchscreen user interface, pilot-selectable screen orientation and 3D Vision.
    The aera 796 also takes the pilot one step closer to a paperless cockpit with a digital document viewer, scratch pad and pre-loaded
    geo-referenced AeroNav IFR and VFR enroute charts. The aera 795 has the same features as the aera 796 except does not include
    XM radio and weather.



GPSMAP 695/696The GPSMAP 696 offers a bright 7-inch
    screen, preloaded detailed electronic charts, preloaded airways and IFR map mode. The GPSMAP 696 has a receiver for XM radio
    and XM WX Satellite Weather (U.S. customers only) that gives next generation radar (NEXRAD), aviation routine weather reports
    (METARs), terminal aerodrome forecasts (TAFs), temporary flight restrictions (TFRs), lightning, winds aloft, turbulence forecasts,
    and several other important weather products (XM subscription required). The GPSMAP 695 has the same features except for XM
    radio and weather.



Garmin
    Pilot™Garmin
    Pilot is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on iOS devices, including
    the Apple iPad and iPhone, and Andoid-based mobile devices.It provides instant access to comprehensive U.S. and Canada
    weather data — including NEXRAD radar, visible and infrared cloud imagery, METARs, TAFs, AIRMETs, SIGMETs, PIREPs, NOTAMs,
    winds and temperature aloft, PIREPs, TFRs and lightning data — as it becomes available








SafeNav™
    Poweredby
    Garmin™Garmin
    and I.D. Systems, Inc., a leading provider of wireless asset management technology, together provide SafeNav™ Powered
    by Garmin™, an on-vehicle, GPS-based navigation and alert system designed to provide airport vehicle operators with
    real-time situational awareness, with the goal of avoiding accidental runway incursions.GDL®
    39In
    July 2012, Garmin announced the GDL 39, which combines a dual-link ADS-B receiver and Garmin GPS receiver into a single unit
    that streams ADS-B datalink traffic and subscription-free weather to select Garmin portable aviation products.



Integrated avionics systems:



G5000™The
    G5000 is the first touchscreen-controlled integrated glass avionics suite designed for FAR Part 25 business jets. The G5000,
    which is scalable for use in a wide range of two-crew aircraft, from light jets to super-midsize and larger models, is designed
    specifically for crew-flown turbine aircraft and combines a dual multi-sensor flight management system (FMS), touchscreen
    vehicle management units, and multi-pane cockpit displays. These widescreen displays with touchscreen controls give pilots
    more useful information at their fingertips than ever before, such as worldwide weather, Garmin’s synthetic vision technology
    (SVT™), aircraft synoptics, and electronic flight charts.



G3000™The G3000, which is designed for use
    in FAR Part 23 turbine aircraft, isthe first touchscreen-controlled integrated flightdeck for
    light turbine aircraft.  It features extra-wide 14.1-inch displays with split-screen MFD viewing functionality and PFD
    terrain simulation in 3-D perspective with SVT™ Synthetic Vision Technology. The G3000 includes a stability augmentation
    function called Garmin’s Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system. This electronic monitoring and correction
    technology works to assist the pilot in maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain situations
    to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become distracted,
    disoriented or incapacitated during flight. Garmin ESP is offered as an option on select G3000 and G1000-equipped aircraft.



G2000®TheG2000 is Garmin’s premium glass flight deck for piston aircraft, bringing a touchscreen user interface, graphical
    flight synoptics, enhanced situational awareness and more to the cockpit.As with the G3000 and
    G5000, the G2000 utilizes the GTC™ 570 vehicle management system, a 5.7-inch diagonal touchscreen controller that uses
    a desktop-like menu interface with intuitive icons. The GTC 570 allows for full control for radio management, audio management,
    flight management, weather systems management, synoptics, and other vehicle systems. The touchscreen also enhances ease of
    use through functions like “back” and “home” that let pilots quickly retrace their steps or return
    to the home screen. The GTC 570 vehicle management system uses patent pending, infrared touchscreen technology, audio and
    visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is responding to their input.



G1000®The G1000 integrates navigation,
    communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution color displays.
    The G1000 offers general aviation airplane manufacturers an easy-to-install solution for flight displays and provides the
    aircraft owner the benefits of a state-of-the-art avionics system which relies on modern technologies such as solid state
    components and bright, sunlight-readable TFT displays.








G1000H®TheG1000H
    is an all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market. The G1000H provides important
    flight data, flight instrumentation, navigation, communication, weather, terrain, traffic, identification, and diagnostics
    and maintenance computer, and presents it digitally to the pilot on large, high-resolution displays.



G600

FAR Part 23

package
    for Reduced Vertical Separation Minimum (RVSM) certification of the G600 installed in select aircraft. The STC package is
    available for G600 installations on the Cessna 441 Conquest II with an ARC 1000 autopilot, which enables Conquest II operators
    to fly RVSM flight profiles from Flight Level 290 to the aircraft’s maximum operating altitude. This allows Conquest
    II pilots to gain fuel savings, lower their carbon footprint, increase range and give them the flexibility to fly above bad
    weather. In October 2012, Garmin announced new features and additional compatibilities for the G600 and G500. With the latest
    software and the new GAD 43e adapter, the G600 and G500 can display and control such data as altitude preselect and vertical
    speed, DME distance, analog radar altitude, and analog nav data.



G500Designed
    specifically for FAR Part 23 Class I/Class II aircraft (single and twin engine aircraft under 6,000 lbs.), the G500 is an
    affordable, dual-screen electronic flight display that works with a pilot’s separate Garmin avionics stack to provide
    a fully TSO’d “glass cockpit” retrofit option.



G500HAn
    all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market.The
    G500H contains dual 6.5-inch LCD screens, mounted side-by-side in a single bezel, which puts Primary Flight Display (PFD)
    and Multi-Function Display (MFD) capabilities right in front the helicopter pilot. The G500H has been optimized for rotorcraft
    and offers features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000
    heliports and nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather with NEXRAD, and the ability to display
    video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources.



G5000H®In February 2012, Garmin announced
    the G5000H, which is an integrated flight deck specifically designed for twin turbine, medium lift helicopters. The G5000H
    combines widescreen displays with touchscreen controls.



G900X™An all-glass integrated avionics
    system specifically designed for kitplane builders of the Lancair and Van’s RV-series aircraft.The
    G900X is a fully-customizable glass cockpit for installation in experimental/kitbuilt and light sport aircraft. The G900X
    offers a customizable PFD/MFD combination that features one, two or three all-glass displays; magnetometer; ADAHRS (combined
    air data and AHRS unit) and engine monitoring.








GDU 370/375Multifunction displays
    for the light sport retrofit and experimental aircraft markets.



Panel-mount aviation products:



GNS 400W Series

(3 models)The GNS 430W is the Wide Area Augmentation
    System (WAAS) successor to Garmin’s popular GNS 430, which was the world’s first ‘‘all-in-one’’
    IFR certified GPS navigation receiver/traditional VHF navigation receiver/instrument landing systems receiver and VHF communication
    transmitter/receiver. Features available in different 400 series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and
    navigation capabilities.Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS)is
    an option for the GNS 430W/530W series navigators. When added to the GNS 430W/530W, helicopter
    pilots receive graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle conflicts along the flight path.



GTN 650 and 750The GTN 650 and 750 are the successors
    to the GNS 430W and 530W.The GTN 650 and GTN 750 feature newer capabilities for GPS/NAV/COM
    systems like touchscreen operation, graphical flight planning with victor airways and high-altitude jet routes, remote transponder,
    remote audio control (750 series only), SafeTaxi® and electronic chart capabilities (750 series only).



GTS™ TAS and

TCAS I SystemsThe GTS 800 series
    of traffic avoidance products combines active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specifictraffic
    threats. The systems use Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlate automatic dependent surveillance
    broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets.The GTS 800 TAS is a lower-cost system, offering
    40 watts of transmit power and a range of up to 12 nautical miles. The GTS 820 TAS delivers 250 watts of transmit power and
    up to 40 nautical miles of interrogation range. The GTS 850 TCAS I satisfies all TCAS I collision avoidance criteria for higher-capability
    turboprops and jets. It features the same 250 watt performance as the GTS 820, and also meets the FAA’s TCAS I certification
    criteria.



GTS 8000In October 2012, Garmin announced
    the GTS 8000 Traffic alert and Collision Avoidance System (TCAS II)/Airborne Collision Avoidance System (ACAS II) for transport
    category aircraft. The GTS 8000 meets the most recent TCAS II/ACAS II standardization requirements, including Change 7.1 compliance.



GI-102A & 106ACourse deviation indicators (CDIs).
    The GI-106A is a course deviation indicator that displays rectilinear needle movements indicating where an aircraft is located
    relative to a VOR radial, GPS course, or instrument landing system signal, and contains integral GPS, NAV and VLOC mode annunciators.



GMA

(5 models)The GMA 340 is a TSO’d audio
    panel with six-place stereo intercom and independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities. The GMA 240 is a versatile,
    non-TSO’d audio panel designed for experimental and light sport aircraft.The GMA 350 and GMA 350H audio panels are designed for fixed wing and rotorcraft, respectively, and they have
    features like voice recognition, 3D spatial audio processing, advanced auto squelch, and ambient noise based volume adjustment.








GTX™ 330 &
    330ESFAA-certified Mode S
    transponders with data link capability, including local air traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information
    Service (TIS). With IFR-certified ES, or Extended Squitter, versions of the GTX 330, Garmin provides an affordable pathway
    to ADS-B compliance for the Next Generation airspace system. Using precise GPS-referenced positioning information, the extended
    squitter technology enables transponders to automatically transmit traffic surveillance data such as aircraft flight ID, position,
    altitude, velocity, climb/descent, and heading information.



GTX 327 & 328FAA-certified transponders which
    transmit altitude or flight identification to air traffic control radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance
    devices and feature solid-state construction for longer life. The GTX 327 offers a digital display with timing functions.
    The 328 is designed exclusively for Europe and satisfies the European requirement for a Mode S solution that meets the reduced
    certification requirements for the VFR Mode S mandate.



GTX 3000In October 2012, Garmin announced
    the GTX 3000, a new remote-mount, Mode-S transponder designed to accommodate the environmental and operational demands of
    transport category aircraft. The GTX 3000 meets the requirements for TCAS II/ACAS II compatibility and also meets the latest
    standards for full ADS-B-“Out” compliance.



GDL® 90The GDL 90 was the first airborne
    Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) product certified by the FAA to TSO C145A standards. The GDL 90 combines
    GPS satellite navigation with datalink communications to deliver interactive traffic and hazard surveillance.



GDL 88In January 2013, Garmin announced
    that it has received FAA Technical Standard Order authorization and Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certificate approval
    for the GDL series, the industry’s first dual-link ADS-B solution for certified aircraft. With this certification, the
    GDL is approved for installation on most Part 23 fixed-wing aircraft. The GDL 88 provides an ADS-B rule-compliant solution
    for aircraft operating in the United States and below 18,000 feet.



GDL 69 and 69AThe GDL 69 offers the ability to
    provide real-time weather information to the aircraft which can be displayed on one of several panel-mounted devices, such
    as the GNS 430W, GNS 530W, GTN 650, GTN 750, GMX200, G500, G500H, G600, as well as fully integrated G1000/G2000/G3000/G5000
    systems. The GDL 69 and GDL 69A receive real-time weather information broadcast by the XM WX Satellite radio system. In addition,
    the GDL 69A expands the utility of the system by providing CD quality audio provided by XM Satellite Radio (separate subscriptions
    for weather data and audio required).



GSR 56The
    GSR 56 provides pilots with access to on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position
    tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). In addition to the many on-demand satellite weather
    features, the GSR 56 offers a worldwide tracking solution that continuously monitors an aircraft’s status enroute.



GMX 200™A large (6.5-inch) sunlight-readable,
    high-resolution, multi-function display.










SL 30 and SL 40The SL30 is a compact
    VHF navigation and communications unit that combines a 760-channel VHF communications radio with 200-channel glideslope and
    localizer receivers. The SL40 is a 760-channel VHF communications radio only. Both the SL30 and SL40 feature 10 watt communications
    transmitters.GNC and GTR seriesIn January 2013, Garmin announced
    the GNC and GTR series of VHF COM and NAV/COM radios, which will replace the SL 30 and SL 40 models.The
    GTR and GNC series are more powerful than their SL-series predecessors with versions available with 10- or 16-watt transmit
    power, allowing for increased range. The GTR 225 includes 10 watts of transmit power and 25 kHz frequency spacing. The GTR
    225A adds 8.33 kHz frequency spacing. The GTR 225B includes 8.33 kHz spacing and 16-watt transmit power. The GNC 255A includes
    10 watts of transmit power and the GNC 255B includes 16 watts of transmit power. Both GNC models include 8.33 kHz spacing.GWX™ 68The GWX 68 is an all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitter
    that brings real-time weather to Garmin’s multi-function displays and Integrated Avionics Systems.GWX 70In July 2012, Garmin announced the
    GWX 70, which is a new solid-state weather radar that brings advanced Doppler-enabled features to general aviation aircraft.



Sales and Marketing



Garmin’s non-aviation
products are sold through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors in approximately 100
countries who meet our sales and customer service qualifications.No single customer’s purchases
represented 10% or more of Garmin’s consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 29, 2012. Marketing support
is provided geographically from Garmin’s offices in Olathe, Kansas (North, South and Central America),in the U.K. (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa), Switzerland (covering Western Europe), Australia (also covering
New Zealand), Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovenia,
Spain, Sweden, and Taiwan (covering Asia excluding China). Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s
global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.



Garmin’s U.S.
consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales
managers and in-house sales associates. Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product
sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s
in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible
for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles
the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors
include:



·Best
                                                                                                          Buy—one of
                                                                                                          the largest U.S. and
                                                                                                          Canadian electronics
                                                                                                          retailers;



·Amazon.com—internet
                                                                                                          retailer;



·Costco—an
                                                                                                          international chain
                                                                                                          of membership warehouses
                                                                                                          that carry quality,
                                                                                                          brand name merchandise;



·Halford’s—a
                                                                                                          large European retailer
                                                                                                          specializing in car
                                                                                                          parts and accessories;



·Petra—a
                                                                                                          large distributor who
                                                                                                          sells to a wide range
                                                                                                          of dealers;



·Target—one
                                                                                                          of the nation’s
                                                                                                          largest general merchandise
                                                                                                          retailers;



·Wal-Mart—the
                                                                                                          world’s largest
                                                                                                          mass retailer; and








·Wynit—a
                                                                                                          large distributor which
                                                                                                          sells to a wide range
                                                                                                          of dealers.



Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation
portable products are sold through select aviation distributors around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products,
also through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmin’s largest aviation distributors include Elliott Aviation, Aircraft Spruce
& Specialty Co., Sarasota Avionics, Gulf Coast Avionics Corp. and Sportsman’s Market. Avionics distributors have the
training, equipment and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.



In
addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs). In the consumer market, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or
through tier 2 sourcing. These OEMs include Chrysler, Toyota, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, Ford, BMW and BMW Motorrad,
Honda, Mercedes Benz, Smart Car, Peugeot, Hyundai, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, Volvo, Bombardier, and Polaris. In November 2012, Garmin
announced the CARWINGS MINI Telematics personal navigation device for Dongfeng Nissan vehicles in China. The detachable device
is available as a dealer option in China. In September 2012, Garmin announced the next generation of its award-recognized navigation
system built into Chrysler vehicles. The new Garmin system is part of the Chrysler Uconnect 8.4N infotainment system. It is available
for 2013 model year Chrysler 300, Dodge Journey, Charger and Dart vehicles. In January 2013, Garmin unveiled its K2 platform,
which turns the car dashboard into a digital cockpit that combines digital displays, voice control, infrared buttons and smartphone
integration to provide drivers features such as navigation, vehicle diagnostics, office features, communications, music, radio
and real-time information from the Internet.









Competition



The market for navigation,
communications and information products is highly competitive. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the
market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and
availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas.








Garmin believes that
its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (“MiTAC”)
(which distributes products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors
for outdoor product lines are Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (“Lowrance”)
and Delorme. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Nike, Inc., Polar Electro Oy, Suunto Oy,
Timex Corp., and Bryton Corp. For marine chartplotter products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Raymarine Inc.
(“Raymarine”), Furuno Electronic Company (“Furuno”), and Simrad and Lowrance (subsidiaries of Navico).
For Garmin’s fishfinder/depth sounder product lines, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Lowrance, Raymarine,
the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., and Furuno. For Garmin’s general aviation product lines, Garmin considers
its principal competitors to be Honeywell, Inc., Avidyne Corporation, CMC Electronics,L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins,
Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc., Universal Avionics Systems Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, Aspen Avionics, Dynon Avionics and
Free Flight Systems. For Garmin’s Family Radio Service and General Mobile Radio Service product line, Garmin believes that
its principal competitors are Motorola Solutions, Inc., Cobra Electronics Corporation and Midland Radio Corporation.



Research and Development



Garmin’s product
innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering
and manufacturing teams. Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 2,939 people
worldwide as of December 29, 2012. Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely
with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and
cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.
Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition
it into manufacturing.



Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures
on research and development over the last three fiscal years.



December 29,December 31,December 25,($'s in thousands)201220112010Research and development$325,773$298,584$277,261Percent of net sales12.0%10.8%10.3%



Manufacturing and Operations



Garmin believes that
one of its core competencies and strengths is its manufacturing capability at its Sijhih, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities,
its Olathe, Kansas facility, and its Salem, Oregon facility. Garmin believes that its vertically integrated approach has provided
it the following benefits with respect to all products other than a few select marine products (VHF radios and AIS receivers),
and our accessory products, all of which are also manufactured by one or more third parties.



Reduced time-to-market.Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmin’s products are introduced to production at an early development
stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass production begins. In this manner,
Garmin attempts to reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries.



Design and process
optimization.Garmin uses its manufacturing resources to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in
order to achieve higher efficiency, improved quality and yields, lower cost and better value for customers. Garmin’s ability
to fully explore product design and manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to minimize size and
weight in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and rugged.



Logistical agility.Operating our own manufacturing and distribution facilities helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages
and long component lead times which are common in the electronics industry. Many products can be re-engineered to bypass component
shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can be delivered to market quickly. Garmin reacts rapidly to changes in market demand
by striving to maintain a safety stock of long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to another.
Operating our own manufacturing facilities also allows Garmin to quickly adjust the mix of product production, helping to foster
faster delivery response to the customer.








Garmin’s design,
manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international
quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations in Taiwan
and Olathe have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. In addition, Garmin’s
aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.



Garmin International,
Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to
the ISO14001 standard. This certification recognizes that Garmin’s subsidiaries have systems and processes in place to minimize
or prevent harmful effects on the environment and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.



Materials



Although most components
essential to Garmin’sbusiness are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components,
including, but not limited to, microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), and certain  application-specific
integrated circuits (“ASICs”) are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects
Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including,
but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject
at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.



Garmin
and other participants in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries
also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition,
Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication and
consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only
one source until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component
or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have



Seasonality



Our sales are subject
to  seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally  higher in the fourth quarter,
due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand
during the spring and summer season and the Father’s Day/graduation buying season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced
by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced
by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest.








Backlog



Our sales are generally
of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.



Intellectual Property



Our success and ability
to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often
relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography
technology for use in our products from various sources.



As of February 1, 2013,
Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 725 patents and 554 trademark registrations.  Garmin was selected as
a constituent of the 2012/2013 Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index which recognizes companies with high intellectual property value.
We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. 
Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in
its proprietary technologies.



There is no assurance
that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part.
It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others
will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity
and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.



Regulations



The telecommunications
industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with
Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be
certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmin’s products sold in Europe
are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new
products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely
affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft”
are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations
before they can be used in an aircraft.










Environmental Matters



Garmin’s operations
are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances
and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
Currently, we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.



Environmental regulation of Garmin’s
products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition
of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially
responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance with current
environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot
yet be fully determined and could be substantial.



Garmin has implemented
multiple Environmental Management System (“EMS”) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards,
and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility,
Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.



Regulatory and “Green
Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing, particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly
design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established. 
Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.



Employees



As of December 29,
2012, Garmin had 9,777 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,678 were in the United States, 70 were in Canada, 4,469
were in Taiwan, 1,102 were in Europe, and 458 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil
and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.



