Item 1.Business



This discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1.Garmin has identified five operating segments for external reporting purposes:Auto/Mobile, Aviation, Marine, Outdoor and Fitness.There are three operating segments (Auto PND, Auto OEM and Mobile) that are not reported separately but are aggregated within the Auto/Mobile reportable segment.Each operating segment is individually reviewed and evaluated by our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment individually.The segment and geographic information included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1.



Garmin was incorporated in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (CHF) per share, of Garmin.Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.



Garmin’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.










The reference to Garmin’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form10-K.



Company Overview



Garmin is a leading, worldwide provider of navigation, communication and information devices and applications, many of which are enabled by Global Positioning System (GPS) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse family of hand-held, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile, outdoor, fitness, marine, and general aviation markets.



Overview of the Global Positioning System



The Global Positioning System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite technology. The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment program to ensure continuous global system coverage.Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government.



Prior to May 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability (SA) for national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a radius of 100 meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004, the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA again and is committed to preventing hostile use of GPS through regional denial of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS receiver can calculate its position to an accuracy of approximately 10 meters or less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications.



The accuracy and utility of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United States and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS system had achieved initial operating capability and that the system was available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics equipment. Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites.



Japan’s MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal and approach navigation for aviation on September 27, 2007.The European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal, and approach navigation on March 2, 2011.



Recent Developments in the Company’s Business



Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 126 million products, which includes the delivery of almost 14 million products during 2013.








Automotive/Mobile Product Introductions



In January 2013 Garmin announced the 2013 line of nüvi®personal navigation devices. New features in the 2013 line include Garmin Real Directions™ which guides drivers by telling them to turn at recognizable landmarks, buildings, stop signs and traffic lights, and Active Lane Guidance which features voice prompts and visual lane animation. In addition, the 2013 line of nüvis feature an all new design and larger screens that range from 4.3 to 7 inches.



In June 2013 Garmin announced the RV 760LMT, which is Garmin’s first navigator created specifically for the RV lifestyle.The RV 760LMT comes with a large 7” display,detailed maps for the U.S. and Canada that include RV-related restrictions, such as bridge heights, for most major roads and highways, and a directory of nearly 20,000 RV parks and services in the U.S. and Canada.



During 2013 Garmin also introduced HUD, which is Garmin’sfirst portable head-up display for smartphone navigation apps. HUD projects navigation directions onto a transparent film on the vehicle’s windshield or an attached reflector lens for the driver’s easy viewing.



Outdoor Product Introductions



In June 2013 Garmin announced Monterra™, which is Garmin’s first Wi-Fi enabled outdoor handheld GPS that combines Garmin’s location and mapping capabilities and the Android™ operating system.It has a sunlight-readable touchscreen and users can access the Google Play Store™ and download apps on the device.



Garmin expanded its line of products for golfers in 2013 with the introduction of the Approach®S4 touchscreen GPS golf watch that comes preloaded with 30,000 worldwide golf coursesand provides enhanced battery performance and the ability to display emails, text messages and alerts.



In August 2013, Garmin announced VIRB™, its first HD 1080p action camera series.VIRB has a 1.4 inch Chroma display, digital image stabilization and lens distortion correction, and it can take high quality still photographs while the video camera is recording.VIRB Elite incorporates all of these features and adds built-in Wi-Fi, data sensors and a high-sensitivity GPS receiver.



In October 2013 Garmin announced tactix™, which is a rugged high-sensitivity GPS navigator inspired by the requirements of law enforcement and police special operations.It includes an altimeter, barometer, 3-axis compass and extensive tracking capabilities.



Garmin expanded its line of Delta™ training collars for dogs during 2013 with the introduction of Delta Upland, which is a highly versatile system for sporting dogs that combines an electronic training collar, a Bark Limiter, and a remote beeper to help locate dogs that are out of sight.



Fitness Product Introductions



Garmin expanded its line of Forerunner®running watches in 2013 with the introduction of theForerunner 620 and Forerunner 220.Both models have a one-inch Chroma color display, and the Forerunner 620 offers advanced features like recovery advisor, race predictor and VO2 max estimate.Garmin also expanded its line of Edge®cycling computers during 2013 with the introduction of Edge Touring and Edge Touring Plus, which are GPS navigators designed for touring cyclists, commuters, and mountain bikers.



In August 2013 Garmin announced the availability of Vector™, which is a high-precision pedal-based power meter designed specifically for cyclists.It provides power data and measures and presents right and left leg power balance to ANT+™ compatible devices.



Marine Product Introductions



In February 2013 Garmin announced the GPSMAP®8000 series.The GPSMAP 8000 Glass Helm series provides a fully integrated glass display and a flat-mounting option that transforms the vessel’s bridge into a glass helm.In November 2013 Garmin announced Garmin Helm, which is a free mobile application that allows boaters to view and control their multi-function Garmin chartplotters from their mobile device.Also in February 2014Garmin introducedLakeVü™ HD and LakeVü HD Ultra, Garmin’s most detailed lake cartography ever created, as well as DownVü™ and SideVü™, which is Garmin’s down and side-scanning sonar technology that provides high resolution imagery.










In November 2013 Garmin announced the GPSMAP 800 and 1000 series of combination chartplotter and fishfinder products.The GPSMAP 800 has an 8-inch display, and the GPSMAP 1000 has a 10-inch display.Both are equipped with built-in 1kW traditional sonar capability, built-in CHIRP and DownVü and support for SideVü with CHIRP.



Garmin introduced the quatix™ during 2013, which is Garmin’s first GPS watch designed for mariners, both power and sail. The quatix combines pivotal marine features and provides both navigation and sailing capabilities while integrating Garmin’s GPS technology and interface.



Aviation Product Introductions



During 2013 Garmin introduced a new series of aviation VHF COM and NAV/COM radios, called the GTR and GNC series.Garmin also introduced the GRA 5500, which is a high-performance, all-digital radar altimeter for transport category, helicopter, business and general aviation aircraft.



In March 2013 Garmin announced seven new, affordable products for experimental and light sport aircraft that offer enhanced capabilities, reduced weight and simplified installation.In July 2013 Garmin enhanced its experimental and light sport aircraft offerings with the GTR™ 200 panel mount communication radio.



Garmin announced D2™ in October 2013, which is a premium watch designed specifically for aviators.



Products



Garmin offers a broad range of solutions across its reportable segments as outlined below.In general, Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics.



Automotive/Mobile



Garmin offers a broad range of automotive navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market.  Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world:



Personal Navigation Devices (PND) –



PNDs combine a full-featured GPS navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmin’s uniquely simple user interface.  PNDs are sold under the nüvi, zūmo®, dezl™, and fleet™ brand names.  The zūmo series offers motorcycle-specific features, the dezl series offers over-the-road trucking features while the fleet series delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch fleet system.  Across the expansive product portfolio, Garmin offers features such as wide screen displays, integrated traffic receivers for traffic avoidance (including some models with lifetime traffic updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names, voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist with PhotoReal junction views - thousands of high quality photos of actual upcoming junctions, 3-D building view, and Bluetooth®hands-free capability.  In fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, the nüvi class of products represented approximately 34%, 43%, and 48% of Garmin’s total consolidated revenues, respectively.










Mobile Applications –



Garmin offers mobile applications under the following brand names:  StreetPilot®and NAVIGON®.  The applications are offered across a broad range of smartphones and tablets including iOS, Android and Windows enabled devices.  These applications provide users turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other advanced Garmin navigation features including Reality View Pro junction information and traffic information.  Some are offered as onboard solutions in which mapping is downloaded to the user’s device and always available while some are offboard solutions in which mapping is available via a server utilizing the mobile connectivity of the device.



Outdoor



Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities.Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world:



Outdoor Handhelds –



Outdoor handhelds range from basic waypoints navigation capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices offering barometric altimeter, 3-axis compass, camera, microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps and other features.Outdoor handhelds are sold under the Dakota®, Oregon®, Rino®, Montana™, Monterra, eTrex®, and GPSMAP®brand names.Each series of products is designed to serve various price points and niche activity categories.The Rino series of handhelds additionally offers two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) that integrate two-way voice communications.The Monterra is Garmin’s first Wi-Fi enabled, Android-based outdoor handheld GPS.



Wrist-worn Devices-



Garmin offers GPS wrist watches for outdoor activity, as well as military, law enforcement and special operations.The fenix™ provides comprehensive navigation and tracking functionalities, as well as trip information, such as heading, elevation and weather changes.The tactix adds additional features inspired by the requirements of law enforcement and police special operations.



Golf Devices -



The Approach®series of golf-focused devices includes both handhelds and wrist-worn products with up to 30,000 preloaded worldwide golf courses.The offerings range from basic display of yardages to the front, back and middle of greens to advanced, touchscreen devices providing measurement of individual shot distances and display of the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens.A statistic-tracking feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics.Some devices include manual pin positioning, which allows users to tap and drag the flag on the green for precise yardage to the flag, and the ability to display emails, text messages and alerts.



Dog Tracking and Training/Pet Obedience Devices -



Garmin offers a series of dog-focused products providing a range of functionality including GPS-enabled dog tracking, electronic dog training, and electronic bark correction.The products are offered under the Astro®, Alpha™, Bark Limiter™ and Delta™ brand names.The Astro series can pinpoint up to ten dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and a handheld system, which features many of our outdoor capabilities including:barometric altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior.Alpha combines the tracking capabilities of Astro with electronic dog training.The Bark Limiter is an intuitive electronic bark correction device.The Delta series of training collars offers a remote training device without tracking capability.










Action Cameras -



Garmin offers VIRB™ and VIRB Elite, HD 1080p action cameras.VIRB has a 1.4 inch Chroma display, digital image stabilization and lens distortion correction, and it can take high quality still photographs while the video camera is recording.VIRB Elite incorporates all of these features and adds built-in Wi-Fi, data sensors and a high-sensitivity GPS receiver.



Fitness



Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in fitness and wellness activities.Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world:



Running/Multi-Sport Watches –



The Forerunner®series offers compact, lightweight training assistants for athletes with integrated GPS sensor that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function and heart-rate based calorie computation.All models allow runners to upload their data to Garmin Connect™, where they can store, analyze and share their workout data. Additional advanced features include: Virtual Racer™, which allows runners to race against their previous best times, recovery advisor, race predictor and VO2 max estimate. The Forerunner 310XT and 910XT are designed specifically for triathletes.These all-in-one GPS-enabled devices provide detailed swim metrics and track distance, speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling.



Cycling Computers -



The Edge®series measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, and altitude offering an integrated personal training system designed for cyclists.In addition, Garmin offers devices geared toward performance-driven cyclists offering real-time connectivity through a smartphone, providing live tracking, social media sharing and real-time weather updates.



Cycling Power Meter -



Garmin offers Vector™, which is a high-precision pedal-based power meter designed specifically for cyclists.It provides power data and measures and presents right and left leg power balance to ANT+™ compatible devices.



Swimming Watch -



Garmin Swim™ is a watch designed for swimming pool use and allows users to track stroke type, stroke count, distance, pace and lengths.Users can also upload their swim data to Garmin Connect, where they can store, analyze and share the data.



Wellness Devices -



Garmin has introduced vívofit™ and vívoki™ to address the growing wellness monitoring market.The vívofitfitness band provides a personalized daily goal, tracks progress and reminds users when it’s time to move. The device features a curved display that shows steps, goal countdown, calories, distance, time of day and heart rate when paired with a monitor.Vívoki provides similar tracking capabilities in a small form factor that lacks a display.This offering is designed to be a lower cost solution for corporate wellness programs.Both devices pair with Garmin Connect to offer analysis and tracking.










Garmin Connect –



Garmin Connect is a web-based analytic tool where users can store, analyze and share fitness and wellness data. The companion mobile application also provides real-time weather data and allows users to wirelessly download courses to some devices.



Marine



Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in the recreational marine industry.Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world:



Chartplotters and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs) -



Garmin offers numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP®brand name.The offerings range from 4-inch helm-mounted products to 15-inch fully-integrated Glass Helm offerings.Cartography options range from US coastal and lake mapping to worldwide basemaps to highly detailed BlueChart®g2 Vision™ charts offering high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective and aerial reference photos toLakeVü HD and LakeVü HD Ultra, Garmin’s most detailed lake cartography ever created.Additional advanced features and connectivity available include:Garmin’s G Motion technology, which delivers ultra-smooth map panning and zooming,optional wireless remote and a wireless mouse and expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data).



Fishfinders –



Garmin offers two series of fishfinders.The echo™ series are standalone fishfinders ranging fromgrayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C, which features a video-quality 640x480 pixel 5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish arch display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet.The echoMap™ series provides charplotter and fishfinder capabilities in a single device.



Sounders –



Garmin offers “black-box” sounders which interface with Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package.



Autopilot Systems -



Garmin offers full-featured marine autopilot systems designed for sailboats and powerboats.The systems incorporate such features as: Garmin’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control, and integration with the Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire autopilot capabilities for various steering systems.



Radar -

Garmin offers both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double as the radar screen.The Garmin radar solutions have a nautical mile range of 36-72 nm.
















Instruments -



Garmin offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument displays that show data from multiple remote sensors on one screen.Mariners can display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon what sensors are connected.



Radios -



Garmin provides marine radios with differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners.Theentry-level radio is NMEA 0183 compatible, while the premium radio is designed for 35+ foot boats, is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time.



Handhelds and Wrist-worn Devices –



Garmin offers a marine-friendly GPS handheld featuring a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States.Also offered for mariners is the quatix™, Garmin’s first GPS watch designed for mariners, combining marine features and navigation and sailing capabilities while integrating Garmin’s GPS technology and interface.



Sailing–



In September 2012, Garmin acquired Nexus Marine AB, a leading supplier of instrumentation for the sailing and yachting market.Nexus designs and manufactures sailing instrumentation systems, and it also supplies binoculars, accessories and Silva branded marine compasses.



Aviation



Garmin’s aviation product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems, terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products,audio panels, cockpit datalink systems and more.The list below includes a sampling of some of the aviation capabilities currently offered by Garmin:



Integrated Avionics Systems/Flight Decks -



Garmin offers a range of integrated glass avionics from the G3X™ for the experimental and light-sport aircraft market to the G5000™ for the business jet market.Basic capabilities integrated include: navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution color displays.More advanced features include:Garmin’s 3-D synthetic vision technology (SVT™), weather, Garmin’s electronic stability and protection system (ESP), electronic flight charts and touchscreen controls, which utilize patent pending, infrared touchscreen technology, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is responding to their input.










Garmin offers similar integrated glass avionics for the helicopter market through the G500H, G1000H®and G5000H®.Basic and advanced capabilities are similar to those offered to the aircraft market.The helicopter offerings have been optimized for rotorcraft and offer features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather with NEXRAD, and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources.



Garmin also offers all-glass integrated avionics to the retrofit market through the G500 and G600.These solutions provide electronic flight displays that work with separate Garmin avionics to provide essential information such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain and traffic.In addition, upgraded systems also allow for the display and control of such data as altitude preselects and vertical speed, DME distance, analog radar altitude, and analog navigation data.



Panel-mount aviation products -



GPS/Navigation/Communication Solutions –



Garmin provides certified GPS navigation receivers, traditional VHF navigation receivers, instrument landing systems receivers and VHF communication transmitters/receivers. Features available in different GNC, GTR, GNS and GTN series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation capabilities, touchscreen operation, graphical flightplanningwith vector airways and high-altitude jet routes, remote transponder, remote audio control, SafeTaxi®and electronic chart capabilities.Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS)is an option providing graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle conflicts along the flight path.



Traffic Solutions -



Garmin offers traffic avoidance products combining active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specifictraffic threats. These capabilities are part of our GTS™ series of systems.The systems use Garmin’s patent-pendingCLEAR CAS™ technology and correlate automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets.The offerings include solutions for both the recreational and transport category of aircraft.



Audio Solutions -



The GMA series are audio panels ranging from offerings with basic capabilities for the recreational pilot to advanced capabilities includingvoice recognition, 3D spatial audio processing, advanced auto squelch, ambient noise based volume adjustmentand independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities.



Transponder Solutions -



Garmin provides a range of transponder solutions in the GTX™ series.The FAA-certified transponders transmit altitude or flight identification to air traffic control radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance devices.Newer transponders offer data link capability, including local air traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS) and a pathway to ADS-B compliance for the Next Generation airspace system, via transmission of traffic surveillance data such as aircraft flight ID, position, altitude, velocity, climb/descent, and heading information. Garmin offers solutions to both recreational and transport aircraft.










ADS-B Solutions -



Garmin offers an FAA certified ADS-B product within the GDL®series.Capabilities include GPS satellite navigation with datalink communications to deliver interactive traffic and hazard surveillance.



Weather Solutions -



Weather capabilities are delivered within our GDL, GSR and GWX™ series.The solutions range from offering XM WX satellite real-time weather information to the aircraft via panel-mounted devices from Garmin to on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required).Also available in the GWX series are all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitters that bring real-time weather to Garmin’s multi-function displays and Integrated Avionics Systems, as well as advanced Doppler-enabled features.



Portable and Wrist-worn Solutions -



Garmin offers the aera®series and GPSMAP 695/696 as portable avionics solutions.The aera series combines an aviation portable with a full-featured automotive GPS.These touchscreen products come with automotive maps, a terrain/obstacles aviation database, and a patented instrument display.Advanced features include: a digital document viewer, a scratch pad, pre-loaded geo-referenced charts, and XM radio and weather.The GPSMAP series offers detailed electronic charts, airways and IFR map mode. Other features available include:XM radio and XM WX Satellite Weather.Garmin announced D2™ in October 2013, which is a premium watch designed specifically for aviators.



Mobile Application -



Garmin Pilot™ is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on iOS and Android-based mobile devices.It provides instant access to comprehensive U.S. and Canada weather data, winds and temperature aloft, and lightning data.



Sales and Marketing



Garmin’s non-aviation products are sold in approximately 100 countries through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors, who meet our sales and customer service qualifications.No single customer’s purchases represented 10% or more of Garmin’s consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 28, 2013.Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmin’s offices around the world.Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.



Garmin’s U.S. consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales managers and in-house sales associates. Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort.Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors include:



·Amazon.com—internet retailer;·Best Buy—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics retailers;·Costco—an international chain of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name merchandise;·Halford’s—a large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories; and

·Wal-Mart—the world’s largest mass retailer.








Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation portable products are sold through select aviation distributors around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also through catalogs and pilot shops.Garmin’s largest aviation distributors include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Elliott Aviation, Gulf Coast Avionics Corp., Sarasota Avionics, and Sportsman’s Market.Avionics distributors have the training, equipment and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.



In addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs).In the automotive/mobile segment, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or through tier 2 sourcing.Some of Garmin’s larger OEM relationships include Chrysler, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, BMW Motorrad, Mercedes Benz, Bombardier, and Polaris.In the marine segment, Garmin’s products are standard equipment on various models of boats.Some of the larger OEM relationships include Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner Boats (a division of Brunswick Corporation), Bavaria Yacht, Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington Marine, LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline Boats, Ltd., Inha Works Ltd. and Regal Marine Industries, Inc.In the aviation market, Garmin’s avionics are either standard equipment or options on various models of aircraft.Some of the larger OEM relationships include AgustaWestland, Bombardier, Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Beechcraft Corporation, Pilatus Aircraft Ltd, Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest Aircraft Company, and Robinson Helicopter Company.



Competition



In general, we operate in highly competitive markets though competitive conditions do vary among our diverse products and geographies.  Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability.  Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets.



Garmin believes that its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (MiTAC) (which distributes products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor product lines are Bushnell, Delorme, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (“Lowrance”) Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, and Woodman Labs Inc. dba GoPro. For mobile products Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Google In., Apple Inc. and Telenav Inc. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Bryton Corp., Fitbit Inc., Nike, Inc., Polar Electro Oy, Sigma Sports, Suunto Oy and Timex Corp. For marine products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Furuno Electronic Company, the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., Navico and Raymarine Inc. For Garmin’s aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, CMC Electronics, Free Flight Systems, Honeywell, Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc. and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation.



Research and Development



Garmin’s product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering and manufacturing teams.Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 3,168 people worldwide as of December 28, 2013.Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and cartographic engineers.Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition it into manufacturing.










Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures on research and development over the last three fiscal years.



December 28,December 29,December 31,($'s in thousands)201320122011Research and development$364,923$325,773$298,584Percent of net sales13.9%12.0%10.8%



Manufacturing and Operations



Garmin believes that one of its core competencies and strengths is its manufacturing capability at its Sijhih, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities, its Olathe, Kansas facility, and its Salem, Oregon facility.Garmin believes that its vertically integrated approach has provided it the following benefits with respect to all products other than a few select marine products (VHF radios and AIS receivers) and our accessory products, which are manufactured by one or more third parties.



Reduced time-to-market.Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmin’s products are introduced to production at an early development stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass production begins.In this manner, Garmin attempts to reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries.



Design and process optimization.Garmin uses its manufacturing resources to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in order to achieve higher efficiency, improved quality and yields, lower cost and better value for customers.Garmin’s ability to fully explore product design and manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to minimize size and weight in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and rugged.



Logistical agility.Operating our own manufacturing and distribution facilities helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages and long component lead times which are common in the electronics industry.Many products can be re-engineered to bypass component shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can be delivered to market quickly.Garmin reacts rapidly to changes in market demand by striving to maintain a safety stock of long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to another.Operating our own manufacturing facilities also allows Garmin to quickly adjust the mix of product production, helping to foster faster delivery response to the customer.



Garmin’s design, manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations in Taiwan and Olathe have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers.In addition, Garmin’s aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.



Garmin International, Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO14001 standard.This certification recognizes that Garmin’s subsidiaries have systems and processes in place to minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.



Materials



Although most components essential to Garmin’sbusiness are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components, including, but not limited to, microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (LCDs), and certain  application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks.Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.










Garmin and other participants in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products.In addition, Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have

matured or manufacturing capacity has increased.Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements for strategically important components.Nevertheless, ifGarmin’s supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product was delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to Garmin, Garmin’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Garmin’s business and financial performance could also be adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet Garmin’s requirements.



Seasonality



Our sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation.Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season and the Father’s Day/graduation buying season.Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products.Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest.



Backlog



Our sales are generally of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment.Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business.We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.



Intellectual Property



Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology.We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography technology for use in our products from various sources.



As of February 1, 2014, Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 820 patent and 470 trademark registrations issued worldwide.  For the past seven years Garmin has been selected as a constituent of the Ocean Tomo®300 Patent Index which recognizes companies with high intellectual property value. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate.  Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in its proprietary technologies.










There is no assurance that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.



Regulations



The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change.In accordance with the United States’ Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold.Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission.A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely affect our business.In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft” are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft.



















Environmental Matters



Garmin’s operations are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Currently, we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.



Environmental regulation of Garmin’s products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products.Compliance with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial.



Garmin has implemented multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards, and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility, Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.










Regulatory and “Green Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing; particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established.  Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.



Employees



As of December 28, 2013, Garmin had 10,086 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,804 were in the United States, 75 were in Canada, 4,687 were in Taiwan, 1,117 were in Europe, and 403 were in other global locations.Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.



