Item 1.Business



This
discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be
read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, “Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under
Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of
Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial
response to this Item 1.  Garmin has four business segments: Marine,
Automotive/Mobile, Outdoor/Fitness, and Aviation.   The segment
and geographic information included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data,” under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial
response to this Item 1.



Garmin
was incorporated in the Cayman Islands on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for
Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate a public
offering of Garmin shares in the United States. Garmin owns, directly or
indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.



Garmin’s
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmin’s directors and
executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available
free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s Internet
website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission.



The
reference to Garmin’s website address does not constitute incorporation by
reference of the information contained on this website, and such information
should not be considered part of this report on
Form   10-K.



Company
Overview



Garmin is
a leading, worldwide provider of navigation, communication and information
devices and applications, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System
(“GPS”) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse
family of hand-held, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other
navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile,
outdoor/fitness, marine, and general aviation markets.






Overview
of the Global Positioning System



The
Global Positioning System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the
precise determination of geographic location using established satellite
technology. The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The
satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and
operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing
satellite replenishment program to ensure continuous global system
coverage.   Access to the system is provided free of charge by
the U.S. government.



Prior to
May 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of
civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability (‘‘SA’’) for
national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a
radius of 100 meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense
discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004, the
Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA
again and is committed to preventing hostile use of GPS through regional denial
of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS
receiver can calculate its position to an accuracy of approximately 10 meters or
less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications.



The
accuracy and utility of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques
which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a
Wide Area Augmentation System (‘‘WAAS’’) comprising ground reference stations
and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available
in the United States and portions of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3
meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal
and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased
accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of WAAS-enabled GPS receivers
for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS
system had achieved initial operating capability and that the system was
available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics
equipment. Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference
stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites.



Recent
Developments in the Company’s Business



Since the
inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 65 million products, which
includes the delivery of nearly 17 million products during
2009.



Automotive/Mobile
Product Introductions



Garmin
introduced a number of new versions of Garmin’s popularnüvi®personal
navigation device (PND) product line in 2009, including the nüvi 1690, a premium
PND with a built-in wireless module that lets customers access Garmin’s nüLink!™
service, which provides direct links to certain online information such as
Google™ local search, traffic, weather, fuel prices, movie listings, flight
status, local events, white page telephone listings and the Ciao!™ friend
finding application, the nüvi 1490T, a premium PND that has a large, 5-inch
touchscreen and sleek body style that is 25-percent slimmer than most nüvi
models, the nüvi 1200 and 1300 series with a new ultra-thin design that are the
first nüvi devices to offer pedestrian capability enabled through optional
CityExplorer™ maps, and the nüvi 885T, which is a voice-activated PND that
includes lane assist with junction view.   Garmin also introduced
in 2009 the nüvi 465T, which is the first PND designed exclusively for over the
road long-haul navigation and delivery trucks.  The nüvi 465T supports
multiple truck profiles and features advanced routing and guidance to support
truck-related road restrictions such as height, width, length, weight and
hazardous materials.



In
February 2009 Garmin and ASUSTek Computer Inc. announced a strategic alliance to
leverage the companies’ navigation and mobile telephony expertise to design,
manufacture and distribute co-branded location-centric mobile phones, to be
known as the Garmin-Asus nüvifoneTMseries.  Throughout the summer and fall of 2009, the
nüvifoneG60
and M20 models were made available in select countries in Asia, Europe and North
America through retail channels and carriers.  The nüvifone G60 was
first available in July 2009 in Taiwan.  The nüvifone M20 became
available in August 2009 in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand and
Malaysia.  The North America launch of the nüvifone G60 occurred in
October 2009 when AT&T announced that it would offer the device to its
customers in the United States.  This was followed by the first
western European carrier launch of the nüvifone G60 with Sunrise in
Switzerland.  Garmin also announced in 2009 that several other
nüvifone models are under development for 2010, includingdevices with the Android
operating system. In addition, in 2009 Garmin introduced the zūmo® 660, which is
a new motorcycle device that integrates the slim and sleek design of the
nüvi with specific features made exclusively for motorcyclists.






Garmin
introduced nüMaps Lifetime™ in January 2009, which is a single fee program that,
subject to the program’s terms and conditions, enables customers to download the
latest map and point of interest information every quarter for the useful life
of their PND.



Outdoor/
Fitness Product Introductions



Garmin expanded its Forerunner® line of
products for the fitness market in 2009 with the Forerunner 310XT, which is a
GPS-enabled trainer that is water-resistant to 50m, tracks bike and run data and
sends it wirelessly to your computer. This multi-sport device has up to 20 hours
of battery life, and goes from wrist to bike in seconds.  In April
2009 Garmin also introduced the Forerunner 405CX, which adds heart-rate based
calorie computation and improved comfort to the numerous features available on
the Forerunner 405.



Garmin
also expanded its Edge® line of cycling GPS products in 2009 with the Edge 500,
which weighs only two ounces, features a high-sensitivity GPS receiver, requires
no calibration, can be switched quickly and easily between bicycles and connects
wirelessly with ANT+™ compatible third-party power meters.



To help
promote its full line of fitness products, in October 2009 Garmin extended for
an additional three years its title sponsorship of Team Garmin-Transitions, a
ProTour cycling team.



In June
2009 Garmin introduced the Dakota™ series of handheld GPS devices, which are
compact, waterproof devices with up to 20 hours of battery life that include a
high sensitivity GPS receiver, worldwide basemap and color touchscreen display.
Garmin also expanded its Oregon™ series of touchscreen handheld GPS devices by
introducing the Oregon 550 and 550t, which integrate a 3.2 megapixel digital
camera that creates geotagged images and a 3-axis compass into the Oregon series
of devices, as well as the Oregon 450 and 450t.



Garmin
also updated the eTrex® series of value-priced handheld GPS devices in 2009 by
introducing the eTrex Legend H and the eTrex Vista H, which include a high
sensitivity GPS receiver, a USB interface, and 24 megabytes of internal memory
for loading detailed topographic maps.  The eTrex Vista H also
includes an electronic compass and barometric altimeter.



Garmin
also introduced the Approach™ G5 in January 2009, which is its first touchscreen
handheld GPS product designed exclusively for the golf course.  The
Approach G5 is a rugged, waterproof, touchscreen golf GPS packed with thousands
of preloaded golf course maps. It uses a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to, among
many other features, measure individual shot distances and show the exact
yardage to fairways, hazards and greens.



Marine
Product Introductions



In 2009
Garmin introduced the GPS 72H, which is a value-priced lightweight, waterproof
handheld GPS that floats, features a high-sensitivity GPS, a USB connection and
a large screen.   Garmin also introduced HomePort™, an
application that allows mariners to plan and manage trips, routes, tracks and
waypoints and transfer them between a personal computer and applicable Garmin
chartplotter.  In July 2009 Garmin introduced the VHF 300, which is a
high-end marine radio with premium features such as multi-station support, a
space-saving black box configuration, and options such as an integrated
dual-band AIS receiver.



In July
2009 Garmin introduced its next generation of open-array digital radar scanners
– the GMR™ 1204/1206 xHD and the GMR 604 xHD, which provide up to eight times
more sampling data that Garmin’s current open-array digital radar scanner
products.  In November 2009 Garmin introduced the GPSMAP® 6000 and
GPSMAP 7000 series of large-format multi-function displays with G Motion™
technology.






Aviation Product Introductions
and Certifications



In March
2009 Garmin received Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Supplemental Type
Certification (STC) for the G1000® avionics suite in the King Air 200 and
B200.



In April 2009 Garmin received European
Aviation Safety Agency’s (EASA) European Technical Standard Order (ETSO)
approval for the GDU 620 display/control unit, which is the display unit for the
G600 flight display system. Because the other components of the G600 have
already received EASA’s ETSO approval, this announcement indicates the GDU 620
is eligible for installation in European registered aircraft with a
certification weight up to 5,700 kgs.



In July
2009 Garmin received FAA Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certification
(AML STC) for the G500, a new avionics suite for normal and utility category
Part 23 Class I and Class II aircraft.



In
October 2009 Garmin announced the G3000, its first touchscreen-controlled
integrated flight deck for Part 23 turbine aircraft.



In November 2009 Garmin introduced the
aera™, an aviation handheld series that is touchscreen and multi-mode so that it
can transition between aviation to automotive mode with one touch.



In December 2009 the FAA granted AML
STC for Garmin’s new TAS and TCAS I traffic systems, the GTS™ 800, GTS 820 and
GTS 850.



Products



Garmin
has achieved a leading market position and a history of consistent growth in
revenues and profits by offering ergonomically designed, user-friendly products
with innovative features and designs covering a broad range of applications and
price points.  Garmin’s target markets are currently broken down into
its four main business segments – automotive/mobile, outdoor/fitness, marine and
aviation.



Automotive/Mobile



Garmin offers a broad range of
automotive navigation products, as well as a variety of products and
applications designed for the mobile GPS market.  Garmin believes that
its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use,
innovation, and ergonomics.  The table below includes a sampling of
the automotive and mobile products that Garmin currently offers to consumers
around the world.



nüvi®

(25
      models)








nüvifone
      ™

(2
      models)The
      nüvifoneTMG60
      — a touchscreen smartphone that integrates a mobile phone, web browser and
      PND all in one device — was introduced in 2009 by Garmin and ASUSTek
      Computer Inc. through the Garmin-Asus alliance, a co-branded alliance
      between Garmin and ASUSTek Computer Inc.  AT&T is the
      exclusive mobile phone carrier for the nüvifone G60 in the United
      States.  It is also available for purchase in Belgium, France,
      Switzerland, Poland, Czech Republic, Taiwan, Singapore and
      Malaysia.  The nüvifone M20 smartphone operates on a Windows
      Mobile® 6.5 operating system and is sold in Taiwan and Hong
      Kong.



zūmo®

(4
      models)Motorcycle-specific
      navigators with features including a glove-friendly touch screen with high
      bright sunlight-readable display, motorcycle mount, vibration-tested
      design, and Bluetooth wireless technology.  An SD (secure
      digital) card slot allows riders to share their favorite places and
      rides with fellow zūmo riders.  The zūmo 660 features 3-D
      building view and lane assist and a digital fuel gauge.  The
      zūmo 220 and 665 were announced in January 2010 as the latest zūmo models
      (expected delivery of first quarter 2010).  The zūmo 220 offers
      a smaller form factor than previous models, while the 665 includes an
      antenna for XM Satellite Radio®, XM NavWeather® and XM NavTraffic®
      (subscription is required for XM content).



Garmin
      Mobile®for

BlackBerryGarmin
      Mobile for BlackBerry is a subscription-based software application that
      lets compatible BlackBerry devices function as versatile GPS
      navigators.



Garmin
      Mobile XTGarmin
      Mobile XT is a data card that turns many smartphones into full-featured
      navigators.  Users can simply plug the microSD card into a
      compatible phone and begin navigating.  No network coverage or
      subscription is
required.



Outdoor/Fitness



The table below includes a sampling of
the fitness and outdoor products that Garmin currently offers to consumers
around the world.



Forerunner®(9
      models)Compact,
      lightweight training assistants for athletes with integrated GPS sensor
      (except for FR60 fitness watch) that provide time, speed, distance, pace
      and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function.
      The Forerunner 60 is an entry-level advanced fitness watch that allows
      runners and walkers to track their workouts and automatically upload their
      data (via a wireless USB ANT™ Stick) to a personal
      computer.  The Forerunner 405 is a compact-sized, wrist-worn
      GPS-enabled device that allows runners and joggers to track their speed,
      distance, heart rate and location, access their training history or
      challenge a Virtual Partner™ and automatically upload their data
      wirelessly to a personal computer.  The Forerunner 405CX adds
      heart-rate based calorie computation and improved comfort to the numerous
      features available on the Forerunner 405.  The Forerunner 310XT
      model, which was designed specifically for triathletes, is water-resistant
      to 50m and tracks biking and running data (and optional heart rate
      data).






Edge®

(5
      models)Integrated
      personal training systems designed for cyclists. The Edge 205 measures
      speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, altitude and
      more.  The Edge 305 adds a heart rate monitor and/or wireless
      speed/pedaling cadence sensor.  The Edge 605 and 705 provide
      mapping capabilities (including street navigation) and a 2.2” color
      display in addition to tracking vertical profiles, climb and descent,
      altitude, speed, distance, and time.  The newest model — the
      Edge 500 — is geared toward performance-driven cyclists by offering the
      ability to track even more performance data in a streamlined form
      factor.



Dakota™

(2
      models)The
      Dakota series is Garmin’s entry level series of handheld GPS navigators
      with built-in mapping.  The Dakota 10 is a rugged, palm-sized
      navigator that offers a touchscreen display, high-sensitivity GPS, and a
      built-in worldwide basemap.  The Dakota 20 adds a barometric
      altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, and a microSD™ card slot for
      optional customized maps.  The 20 model also allows a user to
      share waypoints, tracks, routes and geocaches wirelessly with other
      compatible Dakota, Foretrex®, Oregon® and Colorado®
  users.

Colorado®

(4
      models)The
      Colorado series features Garmin’s  Rock ‘n Roller™ wheel, which
      allows the user to operate many of the units’ features with the user’s
      thumb.  The Colorado 300 features a worldwide basemap with
      shaded relief.  The Colorado 400c provides marine chart coverage
      for the coastal U.S. and Bahamas.  The Colorado 400i offers
      shoreline details, depth contours and boat ramps for U.S. inland lakes and
      rivers. The Colorado 400t gives hikers 3-D elevation perspective and
      preloaded U.S. topographic maps. All Colorado models are equipped with a
      barometric altimeter and electronic compass.



Oregon®

(9
      models)The
      Oregon series combines a bright 3 inch color touchscreen, rugged design
      and a variety of preloaded mapping options. The entry-level Oregon 200
      comes with a built-in Worldwide basemap.  The Oregon 300
      includes a worldwide basemap with shaded relief.  The Oregon
      400t gives hikers preloaded U.S. topographic maps with 3-D elevation
      perspective. The Oregon 400i offers shoreline details, depth contours and
      boat ramps for U.S. inland lakes and navigable rivers. The Oregon 400c
      features chart coverage for the coastal U.S. and Bahamas. The high-end
      Oregon 550 and 550t each come with a built-in 3.2 megapixel autofocus
      digital camera with 4x digital zoom, and each photo taken by these devices
      is automatically geotagged with the location of where it was taken,
      allowing the user to navigate back to that exact spot in the
      future.  In January 2010, Garmin announced the Oregon 450 and
      Oregon 450t, the newest members of the Oregon product family (expected
      availability of first quarter 2010).  The 450 and 450t do not
      include the built-in camera, but offer many other upgrades over other
      Oregon models, including an easier-to-read display and enhanced track
      navigation.






Rino®

(5
      models)Handheld
      two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS)
      radios that integrate two-way voice communications with GPS
      navigation.  Features include patented “peer-to-peer position
      reporting” so you can transmit your location to another Rino
      radio.  The Rino 110 offers an FRS/GMRS radio plus basic GPS
      navigator. The Rino 120 adds an internal basemap and MapSource
      compatibility for street-level mapping.  The Rino 130 has 24 MB
      of internal memory, built-in electronic compass, barometric sensor, and
      National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather radio
      receiver.  The Rino 520HCx has a high sensitivity GPS receiver,
      5 watts of transmit power, color display, mini-USB interface, and a
      turn-by turn automatic route calculation for use in
      automobiles.  The Rino 530HCx has all of the features of the
      Rino 520HCx, plus a seven-channel weather receiver, electronic compass,
      and barometric altimeter.



Approach™
      G5

(2
      models)The
      Approach G5 is a waterproof, touchscreen, handheld GPS for golfers that
      features over 12,000 preloaded golf course maps. Approach G5 uses a
      high-sensitivity GPS receiver to measure individual shot distances and
      show the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens.  The
      Approach G3 was announced in January 2010 as a smaller, lighter version of
      the Approach, yet still offers over 12,000 preloaded
      courses.  Neither model requires any ongoing subscription
      fees.



Astro®High
      sensitivity GPS-enabled dog tracking system.  The Astro is
      designed to pinpoint up to ten dogs’ positions at one time through
      all-weather collars and a handheld system.  The system also
      provides a Dog Tracker page and a Covey Countertmto assist the hunter.  It is loaded with many of the
      features of our outdoor devices including:  barometric
      altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a
      waterproof
exterior.



Marine



Garmin’s
marine lineup includes network products and multifunction displays, fixed-mount
GPS/chartplotter products, instruments, radar, autopilots, and sounder
products.    The table below includes a sampling of some of
the marine products that Garmin currently offers to consumers.



Marine
Chartplotters and Networking Products





GPSMAP®7000
      series

(4
      models)








GPSMAP®6000
      series

(4
      models)Like
      the 7000 series, the 6000 series models also offer Garmin’s new G Motion
      technology and the features to improve visibility in low-light
      conditions.  The GPSMAP 6x12 series features a traditional
      soft-key interface with an alphanumeric keypad and a 12-inch diagonal XGA
      (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable display.  Within this
      family, Garmin offers the GPSMAP 6012 with an enhanced worldwide satellite
      imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 6212 with highly detailed U.S. coastal
      charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas preloaded.  For a
      smaller display, the GPSMAP 6x08 series offers an 8-inch VGA (640 x 480)
      sunlight readable display with a soft-key interface.  The models
      in the GPSMAP 6000 series are all compatible with an optional wireless
      remote and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors,
      with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity.



GPSMAP®
      5000 series

(6
      models)These
      touch-screen multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network (a
      system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other
      data) offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and
      color.  The 5212 and 5208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S.
      coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with
      Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer
      high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference
      photos, and auto guidance.  The 5215 and 5015 offer 15-inch
      diagonal sunlight-readable touchscreen displays.



GPSMAP®
      4000 series/

      series (6 models)These
      multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network offer ease of use and
      video-quality resolution and color.  The 4212 and 4208 come
      pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts,
      and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2 Vision™ charts (sold
      separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map
      perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance.  The
      4210 and 4010 feature 10.4-inch diagonal sunlight- readable displays and
      Garmin’s new marine user interface.



GPSMAP®

(2
      models)These
      configurable chartplotter/multifunction displays (MFDs) are
      network-enabled and come in either a 10.4” or 6.4”
  display.



GPSMAP®
      4x0 and 5x0

and
      7x0 series

(5
      models)The
      4x0 and 5x0 chartplotters and chartplotter/sonar units
      feature  highly-detailed pre-loaded marine cartography and offer
      a wide variety of display sizes and networking options.  All
      units are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart® g2™ data cards. The 7x0
      models are the newest in this family of products and are the first
      touchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters to offer radar
      capability and built-in sonar at an affordable
  price.






GPSMAP®
      5x6 and 5x1

series
      (6 models)Building
      upon the success of the GPSMAP 400 and 500 series, the new chartplotters
      in the GPSMAP 5x6, 5x1 and 4x1 series come standard with an internal
      high-sensitivity GPS receiver that allows for faster acquisition times and
      better satellite tracking so that boaters are able to acquire and maintain
      a GPS fix more easily. In addition, these units boast an improved,
      high-speed digital design that will increase map drawing and panning
      speeds.  Many of the new models in this series are also NMEA
      2000 certified and can interface with Garmin’s full lineup of NMEA 2000
      marine sensors and autopilots, as well as many other third-party
      sensors.



GPSMAP®4x1

series
      (3 models)With
      a 4-inch QVGA sunlight-readable display, the GPSMAP 4x1 series was
      designed for the boater who wants high performance in a small
      package.  These units feature a high-sensitivity GPS receiver
      and faster processors, and are offered with the same cartography
      configuration as the GPSMAP 5x1 series. Likewise, the GPSMAP 4x1s series
      is also available with a built-in sonar with a 500-watt RMS dual-frequency
      transducer for offshore use and a 400-watt RMS with a dual beam transducer
      for inland use.  For satellite weather and radio data, the
      GPSMAP 441 and 421 are also compatible with the GXM 51
      receiver.



GSD
      21 and 22These
      “black-box” sounders interface with Garmin display units and chartplotters
      and enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder
      functions in a remote mounted package.



GMS
      10The
      GMS 10 Network Port Expander is the "nerve center" of the Garmin Marine
      Network.  This 100-Mbit switch is designed to support the
      connection of multiple sensors to the Garmin Marine
    Network.



Other
      Marine Products



GMI
      10The
      GMI 10 is a NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument that displays
      data from multiple remote sensors on one screen.  Mariners can
      use the GMI 10 to display instrument data such as depth, speed through the
      water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind
      direction and more, depending upon what sensors are
    connected.



VHF
      Marine Radios

(4
      models)This
      series of marine radios offers differing feature sets for the radio needs
      of all types of mariners.  The VHF 100 is an entry-level, NMEA
      0183 compatible VHF marine radio.  The VHF 200 is NMEA 2000
      compatible.  The next step up is the VHF 300, which is designed
      for 35+ foot boats and is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible and offers
      multi-station support.  Also designed for 35+ foot boats, the
      VHF 300 AIS is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station
      support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same
  time.






Marine

Autopilot
      Systems

(3
      models)The
      GHP 10’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology automatically disengages the
      autopilot if the helm is turned, allowing the helmsman to maneuver the
      boat. The autopilot automatically re-engages when a steady course is held
      by the helmsman. The TR-1 Gold Marine Autopilot offers worry-free remote
      steering and speed control to operators of small gasoline outboard motor
      boats up to 20 horsepower.  Finally, the GHP 10V Autopilot
      System for Volvo Penta IPS and Sterndrive Joystick Systems is approved for
      use with boats that have an integrated Volvo Penta IPS steering and
      propulsion system and features Garmin’s proven and innovative Shadow
      Drive™ technology – a patented capability that automatically disengages
      the autopilot if the helm is turned, allowing for quick and safe manual
      maneuvers without manually disengaging the autopilot.



Fishfinders

(5
      models)Garmin
      offers five different fishfinder options spanning various price points.
      All models feature Garmin’s Ultrascroll™ technology, which allows boaters
      to get a faster refresh rate on their sonar display, and dual-beam
      transducer operation. Four of the models offer color
      displays.  The Fishfinder 400C comes with dual beam or dual
      frequency transducers for easy adaptability to either freshwater or
      saltwater fishing.  It also offers a new, easy-to-use interface
      and built in CANet connectivity to enable sonar data to be shared with
      compatible Garmin chartplotters.



Radar

(11
      models)Garmin
      offers both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to
      any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can
      double as the radar screen.  The GMR™ 18 and 24 models are
      digital radome products in various sizes and power
      specifications.  The GMR 404 and 406 open array radar scanners
      provide even greater clarity and a 72 nautical mile range.  The
      GMR 18 HD and GMR 24 HD radomes feature digital signal processing
      providing sharper radar imagery and improved target separation. The newest
      generation of open-array digital radar scanners and the GMR™ 1204/1206 xHD
      and the GMR 604/606 xHD models, which transmit with 12 and 6 kilowatts of
      power respectively.  All four of these open-array scanners have
      a maximum effective range of 72 nautical miles and offer selectable
      rotation speeds from 24 RPM to 48 RPM for rapid target
      updates.  These new xHD scanners provide up to eight times more
      sampling data than Garmin’s current open-array
  offerings,



Aviation



Garmin’s
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications
transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), traffic advisory systems and traffic collision
avoidance systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance
products,  marker beacon receivers and audio panels.



Flying

Aviation Consumer



Flying

Aviation Consumer

Flying

Flying

Professional Pilot

Professional Pilot

Aviation International News

Air
Transport World Magazine






Garmin’s
aviation products are sold in both new aircraft and the retrofit market where
existing aircraft are fitted with the latest electronics from Garmin’s broad
product line.



Garmin
has also expanded its range of avionics offerings to leading General Aviation
aircraft manufacturers such as the Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft,
Hawker Beechcraft Corporation, Diamond Aircraft Industries, Mooney Airplane
Company, Piper Aircraft, Inc., DAHER- SOCATA and Quest
Aircraft  through the installation of the G1000 integrated flight deck
as original equipment aboard new aircraft. This system integrates attitude,
heading, air data, navigation, communication, engine monitoring, and other
aircraft functions into a single cohesive system which interfaces with the
flight crew using a set of large, bright TFT displays.  The G1000 also
includes an integrated autopilot – the GFC700.  Garmin also has
expanded its G1000 certifications to the business jet segment, such as Cessna’s
Citation Mustang jet and Embraer’s Phenom 100 and Phenom 300.  Garmin
also announced its next generation integrated flight deck system, the G3000, at
the National Business Aircraft Association (NBAA) trade show in October
2009.  Both Honda Aircraft Corporation and Piper Aircraft
simultaneously announced that the G3000 has been selected for the HondaJet and
PiperJet respectively.



The table
below includes a sampling of some of the aviation products currently offered by
Garmin:



Handheld
      and portable aviation products:



aera™
      series

(4
      models)Garmin’s
      newest aviation handheld series combines the latest aviation portable with
      a full-featured automotive GPS, allowing pilots to transition between
      aviation to automotive mode with one touch.  Featuring a crisp
      4.3-inch QVGA wide-format display with touchscreen interface, all four
      aera models come with preloaded automotive maps, a built-in
      terrain/obstacles aviation database, patented Panel Page instrument
      display, and other features.  When in aviation mode, pilots see
      colorful icons that use intuitive pictures and labels to indicate their
      function. The exterior of each aera model (500, 510, 550 and 560) are
      identical, but the software features of each model are tailored to those
      seeking an entry, mid or high-level aviation handheld.



GPSMAP
      495/496The
      GPSMAP 496 expands on the GPSMAP 396 by adding such additional features as
      Garmin’s SafeTaxi™ airport diagrams, Aircraft Owners and Pilots
      Association (AOPA) Airport directory data, Garmin’s Smart Airspace
      enhanced high-resolution terrain database, accelerated GPS update rate,
      and pre-loaded automotive maps of North America. The GPSMAP 495 offers
      many of the same features as the GPSMAP 496 at a lower price
      point.



GPSMAP
      695/696The
      GPSMAP 696 expands on the features of the GPSMAP 496 by adding a 7 inch
      screen, preloaded detailed electronic charts, preloaded airways and IFR
      map mode. The GPSMAP 696 has a receiver for XM radio and XM WX Satellite
      Weather (U.S. customers only) that gives next generation radar (NEXRAD),
      aviation routine weather reports (METARs), terminal aerodrome forecasts
      (TAFs), temporary flight restrictions (TFRs), lightning, winds aloft,
      turbulence forecasts, and several other important weather products. The
      GPSMAP 695 has the same features except for XM radio and
      weather.






Pilot
      My-CastSMPilot
      My-Cast by Garmin is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and
      pre-flight weather application for display on compatible mobile
      phones.  Compared to other aviation weather cell phone
      applications, Pilot My-Cast is unique because it receives aviation data
      directly from the National Weather Service, Environment Canada, and
      Federal Aviation Administration.



Integrated
      avionics systems:



G3000™Announced
      in October 2009, the G3000, which is designed for use in FAR Part 23
      turbine aircraft, is the first touchscreen-controlled integrated
      flightdeck for light turbine aircraft.  It features extra-wide
      14.1-inch displays with split-screen MFD viewing functionality and PFD
      terrain simulation in 3-D perspective with SVT™ Synthetic Vision
      Technology.



G1000®The
      G1000 integrates navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain,
      traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution
      color displays. The G1000 offers general aviation airplane manufacturers
      an easy-to-install solution for flight displays and provides the aircraft
      owner the benefits of a state-of-the-art avionics system which relies on
      modern technologies such as solid state components and bright,
      sunlight-readable TFT displays.



G600™The
      G600 brings the style and function of an all-glass integrated avionics
      suite to the retrofit market for FAR Part 23 Class I, II or III
      aircraft.  The G600 incorporates two individual displays – a PFD
      and MFD – in a customized package specifically designed for easy retrofit
      installation. The G600 is designed to communicate and integrate with
      Garmin’s WAAS enabled panel mount products, and provides essential
      information such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain and
      traffic.  Garmin has received the FAA’s Approved Model List
      Supplemental Type Certification (AML STC) for the G600, which will
      simplify certification for over 300 different aircraft
    models.



G500™Designed
      specifically for FAR Part 23 Class I/Class II aircraft (singles and twins
      under 6,000 lbs.), the G500 is an affordable, dual-screen electronic
      flight display that works with a pilot’s separate Garmin avionics stack to
      provide a fully TSO’d “glass cockpit” retrofit option.  The G500
      does not include all of the same standard functionality as the G600 (for
      example, the G500 does not offer SVT (Synthetic Vision Technology) or a
      standard GAD 43 interface adapter.



G900X™An
      all-glass integrated avionics system specifically designed for kitplane
      builders of the Lancair and Van’s RV-series aircraft.G3X™ The G3X is a
      fully-customizable glass cockpit for installation in experimental/kitbuilt
      and light sport aircraft.  The G3X offers a customizable PFD/MFD
      combination that features one, two or three all-glass displays;
      magnetometer; ADAHRS (combined air data and AHRS unit) and engine
      monitoring.






GDU
      370/375Multifunction
      displays for the light sport retrofit and experimental aircraft markets
      (expected to be available in the second quarter of
  2009).



Panel-mount
      aviation products:



400W
      Series

(3
      models)The
      GNS 430W is the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) successor to Garmin’s
      popular GNS 430, which was the world’s first ‘‘all-in-one’’ IFR certified
      GPS navigation receiver/traditional VHF navigation receiver/instrument
      landing systems receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver.
      Features available in different 400 series models include 4-color map
      graphics, GPS, communication and navigation
      capabilities.  .



      W Series

(2
      models)These
      units combine the features of the 400W series along with a larger 5” color
      display.  The 530W Series comes standard with Wide Area
      Augmentation System (WAAS) capability and may be ordered with or upgraded
      to Class B Terrain Awareness and Warning System (TAWS-B)
      capability.



GTS™
      TAS and

TCAS
      I SystemsThe
      GTS 800 series of traffic avoidance products combines active and passive
      surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic threats. The systems use
      Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlates automatic
      dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets.The GTS 800 TAS is a
      lower-cost system, offering 40 watts of transmit power and a range of up
      to 12 nautical miles. The GTS 820 TAS delivers 250 watts of transmit power
      and up to 40 nautical miles of interrogation range. The GTS 850 TCAS I
      satisfies all TCAS I collision avoidance criteria for higher-capability
      turboprops and jets.  It features the same 250 watt performance
      as the GTS 820, and also meets the FAA’s TCAS I certification
      criteria



GI-102A
      & 106ACourse
      deviation indicators (CDIs). The GI-106A features an instrument landing
      system receiver to aid in landing.



GMA
      240, 340 & 347The
      GMA 340 is a feature-rich audio panel with six-place stereo intercom and
      independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities.  The GMA
      347 has automatic squelch, digital clearance recorder, and a full-duplex
      telephone interface.  The GMA 240 is a versatile, non-TSO’d
      audio panel designed for experimental and light sport
      aircraft.



GTX™
      330 & 330DFAA-certified
      Mode S transponders with data link capability, including local air traffic
      information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service
      (TIS).  These transponders may also be optionally upgraded to
      provide 1090 MHz Extended Squitter (ES) transmission capabilities, which
      will increase situational awareness once the Automatic Dependent
      Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) system is fully
  implemented.



GTX
      320A,327 & 328FAA-certified
      transponders which transmit altitude or flight identification to air
      traffic control radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance
      devices and feature solid-state construction for longer
      life.  The GTX 327 offers a digital display with timing
      functions.  The 328 is designed exclusively for Europe and
      satisfies the European requirement for a Mode S solution that meets the
      reduced certification requirements for the VFR Mode S
    mandate.






GDL
      90The
      GDL 90 is the first airborne Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast
      (ADS-B) product certified by the FAA to TSO C145A
      standards.  The GDL 90 allows pilots in the cockpit and air
      traffic controllers on the ground to “see” aircraft traffic with much more
      precision than has ever been possible before without the costly
      infrastructure of ground based tracking radar.  The GDL 90
      relies on the infrastructure that is part of the FAA’s Safe Flight 21
      program.  This program is currently under development with
      implementation of the ground-based portion of the ADS-B network taking
      place along the East Coast and other selected areas of the
      U.S.A.  Additional installations of the ADS-B ground stations
      are planned.  The ground stations can track aircraft movement
      and eventually are expected to be used to broadcast traffic and weather
      services.  Pilots equipped with the GDL 90 and operating within
      the ground station coverage area will receive aircraft traffic and
      real-time weather information free of charge.



GDL
      69 and 69AThe
      GDL 69 offers the ability to provide real-time weather information to the
      aircraft which can be displayed on one of several panel-mounted devices,
      such as the GNS 430, GNS 530, MX20, and G1000 systems. The GDL 69 and GDL
      69A receive real-time weather information broadcast by the XM WX Satellite
      radio system.  In addition, the GDL 69A expands the utility of
      the system by providing CD quality audio provided by XM Satellite Radio
      (separate subscriptions for weather data and audio
    required).



GMX
      200™A
      large (6.5 inch) sunlight-readable, high-resolution, multi-function
      display.



SL
      30 and SL 40The
      SL30 is a compact VHF navigation and communications unit that combines a
      760-channel VHF communications radio with 200-channel glideslope and
      localizer receivers.  The SL40 is a 760-channel VHF
      communications radio only.  Both the SL30 and SL40 feature 10
      watt communications transmitters.



GWX™
      68The
      GWX 68 is an all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitter that brings real-time
      weather to Garmin’s newest multi-function
  displays.



Sales
and Marketing



Garmin’s
non-aviation products are sold through a worldwide network of approximately
3,000 independent dealers and distributors in approximately 100 countries who
meet our sales and customer service qualifications. Best Buy was the only
customer whose purchases represented 10% or more of Garmin’s consolidated
revenues in the fiscal year ended December 26, 2009 (Best Buy’s purchases
totaled 13.4% of Garmin’s 2009 consolidated revenues).  Marketing
support is provided geographically from Garmin’s offices in Olathe, Kansas
(North, South and Central America),in the U.K. (Eastern Europe,
Middle East and Africa) France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Austria,
Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Belgium, Australia (also covering New Zealand) and in
Taiwan (Asia).  Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase
Garmin’s global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality
standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.



Garmin’s
U.S. consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and
distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales managers and in-house
sales associates. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and
distributors include:



·Best Buy—one of the
      largest U.S. and Canadian electronics
retailers;



·Amazon.com—internet
      retailer;






·Costco—an international
      chain of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name
      merchandise;



·Halford’s—a large
      European retailer specializing in car parts and
    accessories;



·Petra—a large
      distributor who sells to a wide range of
  dealers;



·Target— one of the
      nation’s largest general merchandise
retailers;



·Wal-Mart—the world’s
      largest mass retailer; and



·Wynit—a large
      distributor who sells to a wide range of dealers, including Radio
      Shack.



Garmin’s
Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product sales are
handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to
dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s in-house sales and marketing staff in the
U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are
responsible for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail
location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles the Company’s Asia sales
and marketing effort.



Garmin’s
panel-mount aviation products are sold through aviation distributors around the
world. Garmin’s largest aviation distributors include Sportsman’s Market,
Aircraft Spruce and Specialty Co., Gulf Coast Avionics, Pacific Coast Avionics,
and Sarasota Avionics. These distributors have the training, equipment and
certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics
equipment. Garmin’s portable aviation products are sold through distributors and
through catalogs.








Competition



The
market for navigation, communications and information products is highly
competitive.  Garmin believes the principal competitive factors
impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and
reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and
availability.  Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in
each of these areas.





Research
and Development



Garmin’s
product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and
development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering and
manufacturing teams.  Garmin’s products are created by its engineering
and development staff, which numbered 1,969 people worldwide as of December 26,
2009.  Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process
engineers who work closely with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure
manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers,
electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and cartographic
engineers.  Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has
played an important role in Garmin’s success.  Once a development
project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to
design the product and transition it into manufacturing.



Below is
a table of Garmin’s expenditures on research and development over the last three
fiscal years.



December
      26,December
      27,December
      29,200920082007($'s
      in thousands)Research
      and development$238,378$206,109$159,406Percent
      of net sales8.1%5.9%5.0%



Manufacturing
and Operations



Garmin
believes that one of its core competencies is its manufacturing capability at
its Shijr, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities, its Olathe, Kansas facility,
and its Salem, Oregon facility.  Garmin believes that its vertically
integrated approach has provided it the following benefits with respect to all
products other than the nüvifone products, which are manufactured by one or more
third parties as part of the Garmin-Asus strategic alliance, and our accessory
products, which are also manufactured by one or more third
parties:






Reduced
time-to-market.Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmin’s
products are introduced to production at an early development stage and the
feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass
production begins.  In this manner, Garmin attempts to reduce the time
required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries,
with improved quality and yields.



Design and
process optimization.Garmin uses its manufacturing resources
to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in order to achieve
higher efficiency, lower cost and better value for
customers.  Garmin’s ability to fully explore product design and
manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to
minimize size and weight in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and
rugged.



Logistical
agility.Operating its own manufacturing facilities
helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages and long component
lead times which are common in the electronics industry.  Many
products can be re-engineered to bypass component shortages or reduce cost and
the new designs can be delivered to market quickly.  Garmin reacts
rapidly to changes in market demand by striving to maintain a safety stock of
long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to
another.



Garmin’s
design, manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan,
and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard
developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s Taiwan
manufacturing facilities have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality
standard for automotive suppliers.  In addition, Garmin’s aviation
operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the
aviation industry.



Garmin
(Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their
environmental management systems to the ISO14001 standard.  This
certification recognizes that Garmin’s UK and Taiwan subsidiaries have systems
and processes in place to minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment
and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.



Materials



Although
most components essential to the Company’s business are generally available from
multiple sources,  Certain key components including but not limited to
microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), and certain
 application-specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”) are currently obtained
by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects the Company
to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that
are available from multiple sources including but not limited to NAND flash
memory, dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs,
are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing
fluctuations.










Seasonality



Our sales are subject to significant
seasonal fluctuation.  Sales of our consumer products are generally
significantly higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand for
automotive/mobile products during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser
extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer
marine season and the Father’s Day/graduation buying season.  Sales of
consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new
products.  Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal
variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products
when the initial demand is typically the strongest.



Backlog



Our sales are generally of a consumer
nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and
shipment.  Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not
material to the understanding of our business.  We typically ship most
orders within 72 hours of receipt.



Intellectual
Property



Our
success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary
technology.  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark
and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and
protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of
intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains
licenses for digital cartography technology for use in our products from various
sources.



As
of January 21, 2010, Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 400 patents
and 250 trademark registrations.  Garmin was selected as a constituent of
the 2009 Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index and the 2009 Wall Street Journal®
Electronic & Instruments Patent Scorecard, both of which are indices that
recognize companies with high intellectual property value. We believe that our
continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their
ability to continue to innovate.  Garmin will continue to file and
prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s
rights in its proprietary technologies.



There is
no assurance that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire,
may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also
possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive
advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing
and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary
rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to
obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.  Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to
protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the
proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or
invalidity.






Regulations



The
telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment
in which Garmin operates is subject to change.  In accordance with
Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules and regulations, wireless
transceiver and cellular handset products are required to be certified by the
FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are
sold.  Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply with
relevant directives of the European Commission.  A delay in receiving
required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products,
or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely affect
our business.    In addition, aviation products that are
intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft” are required to be
certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety
Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an
aircraft.





Environmental
Matters



The
European Union (“EU”) enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous
Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive ("RoHS Directive")
and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (“WEEE Directive”).
The RoHS Directive requires EU member states to enact laws prohibiting the use
of certain substances, including lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium,
in certain electronic products put on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE
Directive requires EU member states to enact laws that were to go into effect by
August 13, 2005 regulating the collection, recovery and recycling of waste from
certain electronic products. We modified the design of our products and our
manufacturing processes and are participating in the collection and recycling
programs in order to comply with such laws and regulations.  The EU is
reviewing the RoHS Directive, and an amended version – “RoHS II” – is expected
to be adopted in the Spring of 2010.  While the basic objective should
remain the same, it is expected that RoHS II will provide clearer directives and
complement other EU legislation by using similar methodologies.








AC/DC
adapters included as an accessory with certain Garmin products or sold as an
option for battery charging of many portable Garmin products will require
submissions of energy-use profiles in accordance with the EU EuP (Energy Using
Products) Directive.  Garmin is modifying the design and energy-use
profiles of our adapters in order to comply with applicable laws and
regulations.  Additionally, the U.S. Department of Energy has
promulgated a regulation pertaining to external power supplies and compliance
with the energy efficiency standards that were established under the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007.  We will be addressing these
requirements as necessary.



Garmin
products may also become subject to further energy efficiency requirements if
and when required under U.S. Federal climate change legislation.



In June
2009 the California Air Resources Board adopted proposed regulations to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions which would begin phasing in starting with
2012 model-year vehicles that would require vehicles sold in
California to have solar reflective window glazing that may interfere with
the reception of GPS satellite signals by portable navigation
devices.



The
People’s Republic of China has enacted legislation which is widely known as
“China RoHS”.  The first phase of China RoHS took effect on March 1,
2007 and requires the disclosure and marking of certain substances, including
lead, mercury, cadmium and hexavalent chromium in certain electronic
products.  We have established a program in order to comply with the
first phase of China RoHS.



Other
states and countries have promulgated or proposed legislation similar to the
RoHS Directive and/or the WEEE Directive.  The need for and cost of
our compliance with such legislation cannot yet be fully determined but the cost
could be substantial.



Several
states have enacted laws pertaining to the reduction of mercury in products and
the labeling of mercury-containing products, including the member states of the
Interstate Mercury Education and Reduction Clearinghouse
(IMERC).  Some of these laws, including those in Connecticut, New
York, Vermont and Louisiana, are applicable to certain of Garmin’s GPS
products.  We have established an ongoing compliance program to ensure
that we are fulfilling the notice and labeling requirements set forth in the
relevant mercury legislation.



Garmin
has implemented multiple Environmental Management System (“EMS”) policies in
accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001
standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS
policies set forth practices, standards, and procedures to ensure compliance
with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas
headquarters facility, Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s
Taiwan manufacturing facility.



Regulatory
and “Green Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing,
particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and
environmentally-friendly design and manufacture initiatives.  The
overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be
established.  Garmin is committed to improving our products and
processes to meet our customer needs.






Employees



As of
December 31, 2009, Garmin had 8,437 full and part-time employees worldwide,
of whom 2,948 were in the United States, 68 were in Canada, 4,727 were in
Taiwan, 623 were in Europe, and 71 were in other global
locations.   Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil,
Iceland and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor
union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a
collective bargaining agreement.  Garmin considers its employee
relations to be good.



