Item 1.Business



This discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1.  Garmin has four business segments: Marine, Automotive/Mobile, Outdoor/Fitness, and Aviation.   The segment and geographic information included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial
response to this Item 1.



Garmin was incorporated in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company  (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).  Pursuant to
the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (“CHF”) per share, of Garmin.  Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.



Garmin’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s Internet website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission(the “SEC”).  The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.



The reference to Garmin’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form   10-K.






Company Overview



Garmin is a leading, worldwide provider of navigation, communication and information devices and applications, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System (“GPS”) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse family of hand-held, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile, outdoor/fitness, marine, and general aviation markets.



Overview of the Global Positioning System



The Global Positioning System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite technology. The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment program to ensure continuous global system coverage.   Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government.



Prior to May 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability (‘‘SA’’) for national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a radius of 100 meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004, the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA again and is committed to preventing hostile use of GPS through regional denial of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS receiver can calculate its position to an accuracy of approximately 10
meters or less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications.



The accuracy and utility of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (‘‘WAAS’’) comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United States and portions of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of
WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS system had achieved initial operating capability and that the system was available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics equipment. Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites.



Japan’s MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal and approach navigation for aviation in September 27, 2007.  Garmin is working closely with the European Satellite Services Provider (ESSP) in preparation for the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service declaration which is planned in 2011.



Recent Developments in the Company’s Business



Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 81 million products, which includes the delivery of over 16 million products during 2010.



Acquisitions



In September 2010 Garmin acquired MetriGear, Inc., the creator of a pedal-based power measurement solution for cyclists that integrates a force and motion sensor platform into the spindles of bicycle pedals to measure a cyclist’s performance.



In October 2010 Garmin acquired Belanor AS, the distributor of Garmin’s automotive, outdoor recreation, fitness and marine products in Norway.






Automotive/Mobile Product Introductions



In January 2010 Garmin announced thezūmo®220 andzūmo665 touchscreen navigators for motorcycles, ecoRoute™ hd, a device that transforms a compatible Garmin navigation device into a real-time onboard diagnostics computer, and Voice Studio™, a free PC application that lets anyone record their own voice to create custom pre-recorded navigation prompts for use on compatible Garmin navigation
devices.



In April 2010 Garmin announced the nüvi®3700 series of portable navigation devices featuring an ultra-thin, pocket-friendly design and large-screen, high-resolution glass displays with capacitive touch panels



In September 2010 Garmin announced the nüvi 2200 and nüvi 2300 series of entry-level portable navigation devices and the nüLink! 1695 five-inch touchscreen portable navigation device that connects drivers with relevant, online information from Garmin’s nüLink! service, including links to online information like Google™ Local Search, traffic, weather, fuel prices, flight status, and other real-time, location-relevant content.



In November 2010 Garmin announced that it would provide an integrated navigation package for the 2011 Suzuki Grand Vitara and SX4 models which would offer connectivity to wireless online information like Google™ local search, traffic, weather, fuel prices, movie listings, flight status, local events, and white page telephone listings



During 2010, Garmin-Asus, a co-branded alliance between Garmin and ASUSTeK®Computer Inc. (“ASUS”), introduced the nüvifone™ A10, A50 and M10 location-centric mobile handset models. In October 2010 Garmin and ASUS announced that they would not introduce any new co-branded handset models going forward but would continue to sell and support models that they had already introduced to the market.  ASUS announced that it would design and manufacture new models of ASUS-branded mobile phones, some of which would include
preloaded Garmin navigation and Location Based Service (LBS) applications. Garmin announced that it would expand its mobile handset application development and would offer navigation and other applications through certain consumer application stores.



Outdoor/ Fitness Product Introductions



Garmin expanded its line of products for golfers in 2010 with the introduction of the Approach®G3 golf-specific handheld and the Approach S1 GPS wristwatch designed specifically for golf.



Garmin also expanded its line of products for cyclists in 2010 with the introduction of the Edge®800 cycling computer which combines the most popular aspects of the industry-leading Edge 500 and Edge 705 while adding a touchscreen interface.



Garmin added to its line of products for running enthusiasts in 2010 with the introduction of the Forerunner®110, 210 and 410 GPS-enabled sports watches.



In June 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP®62 series of rugged outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and outdoors enthusiasts. Also in June 2010 Garmin announced the DC™ 40 tracking collar, for Garmin’s Astro®GPS Dog Tracking System.



In October 2010 Garmin announced chirp™, a wireless beacon designed specifically for geocaching, which can communicate with, and be programmed by, any compatible wireless-enabled Garmin handheld.



In December 2010 Garmin announced the creation of OpenCaching.com, a  free online community for creating, sharing and finding geocaches around the world.



Marine Product Introductions



In January 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP®700 series of seven-inch touchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters with radar capability and built-in sonar.






In February 2010 Garmin announced the AIS 300 receiver that enables monitoring of other nearby Class A and Class B Automatic Identification System (AIS)-enabled vessels that may pose a collision risk.



In April 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP®78 series of marine-friendly GPS handhelds featuring a new contemporary industrial design with rubber side grips.



In September 2010 Garmin announced the GHP™ 12 sailboat autopilot system for 20- to 70-foot sailboats equipped with linear-actuated steering systems.



In November 2010 Garmin announced the echo™ series of standalone fishfinders with Garmin HD-ID™ target tracking technology. Also in November 2010 Garmin announced the GMR™ 404 xHD and GMR 406 xHD, two new 4 kilowatt open-array marine radars.



Aviation Product Introductions and Certifications



During 2010 Garmin announced two new products for the helicopter market, the G500H all-glass avionics system designed specifically for helicopters and a Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) for use with Garmin’s GNS 430W/530W navigators.



In July 2010 Garmin announced that it was developing a new stability augmentation system called Garmin’s Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system which would be offered as an option for Garmin’s G1000 and G3000 integrated flight decks and which would assist the pilot in maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain situations to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become distracted, disoriented or incapacitated during flight. Also in July 2010 Garmin announced the GSR 56 Iridium datalink and GDL 59 data logger and Wi-Fi datalink and announced that the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) had granted Supplemental Type Certification (STC) for the G1000 integrated flight deck in the Cessna CitationJet.



In October 2010 Garmin announced that it was developing the G5000™ integrated flight deck for the Part 25 business jet market and Cessna Aircraft Company announced that it was developing a larger version of its Citation X jet which would feature the Garmin G5000 flight deck.



In December 2010 Garmin announced that had received the European Aviation Safety Agency’s (EASA) validation of the U.S. STC (Supplemental Type Certificate) for the installation of the Garmin G1000 avionics suite in the King Air 200 and B200.



Products



Garmin has achieved a leading market position and a history of growth in revenues and profits by offering ergonomically designed, user-friendly products with innovative features and designs covering a broad range of applications and price points.  Garmin’s target markets are currently broken down into its four main business segments – automotive/mobile, outdoor/fitness, marine and aviation.



Automotive/Mobile



Garmin offers a broad range of automotive navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market.  Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics.  The table below includes a sampling of the primary automotive and mobile products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.






nüvi®

(52 models)The nüvi is Garmin’s popular personal navigation device (PND).  All nüvi models combine a full-featured GPS navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmin’s uniquely simple user interface.  Different nüvi models and optional add-ons offer a plethora of additional feature sets, including a wide screen display, integrated traffic receiver for traffic data (including some models with lifetime traffic updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names, voice recognition, speed limit indication, lane assist, 3-D building view, junction view, Bluetooth®hands-free
capability, built-in maps of Europe, and the ability to add custom points of interest and a custom GPS voice.  Numerous newer nüvi models also offer a feature called ecoRoute™, which is a feature designed to help improve the vehicle’s fuel efficiency by suggesting route calculations based upon less fuel usage and a driving challenge program that helps reinforce fuel-efficient driving practices.  Garmin’s newest nüvi models – the 3700 series – offer an award-winning, super-thin design and such other newer features as a multi-touch glass display, nüRoute™ technology, 3-D terrain view, and pedestrian mode.  In fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, the nüvi class of products represented approximately 54%, 63%, and 64% of Garmin’s total consolidated revenues.



zūmo®

(4 models)Motorcycle-specific navigators with features including a glove-friendly touch screen with high bright sunlight-readable display, motorcycle mount, vibration-tested design, and Bluetooth wireless technology.  An SD (secure digital) card slot allows riders to share their favorite places and rides with fellow zūmo riders.  The zūmo 660 features 3-D building view and lane assist and a digital fuel gauge.  The zūmo 220 offers a smaller form factor than previous models, while the 665 includes an antenna for XM Satellite Radio®, XM NavWeather®and XM NavTraffic®(subscription is required for XM content).



StreetPilot®appLaunched in January 2011, this smartphone application allows Apple iPhone®or iPad®users to download premium Garmin navigation to their device, allowing for turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other popular Garmin navigation features.



Garmin Mobile®for

BlackBerryGarmin Mobile for BlackBerry is a subscription-based software application that lets compatible BlackBerry devices function as versatile GPS navigators.



Outdoor/Fitness



The table below includes a sampling of the outdoor and fitness products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world.



Forerunner®(9 models)Compact, lightweight training assistants for athletes with integrated GPS sensor (except for FR60 fitness watch) that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function.  The FR 60 is an entry-level advanced fitness watch that allows runners and walkers to track their workouts and automatically upload their data (via a wireless USB ANT™ Stick) to a personal computer.  The Forerunner 405 is a compact-sized, wrist-worn GPS-enabled device that allows runners and joggers to track their speed, distance, heart rate and location, access their training history or challenge a Virtual Partner™ and automatically upload their data
wirelessly to a personal computer.  The Forerunner 405CX adds heart-rate based calorie computation and improved comfort to the numerous features available on the Forerunner 405.  The Forerunner 310XT model, which was designed specifically for triathletes, is water-resistant to 50m and tracks biking and running data (and optional heart rate data). The Forerunner 410 — the highest end model in the Forerunner family — offers an enhanced touch bezel designed to allow users to quickly scroll and select features on the run.






Edge®

(6 models)Integrated personal training systems designed for cyclists. The Edge 205 measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, altitude and more.  The Edge 305 adds a heart rate monitor and/or wireless speed/pedaling cadence sensor.  The Edge 605 and 705 provide mapping capabilities (including street navigation) and a 2.2” color display in addition to tracking vertical profiles, climb and descent, altitude, speed, distance, and time.  The Edge 500 is geared toward performance-driven cyclists by offering the ability to track even more performance data in a streamlined form factor.  The newest model — the Edge 800 — added a touchscreen interface
to the Edge family of products.



Dakota®

(2 models)The Dakota series is Garmin’s entry level series of handheld GPS navigators with built-in mapping.  The Dakota 10 is a rugged, palm-sized navigator that offers a touchscreen display, high-sensitivity GPS, and a built-in worldwide basemap.  The Dakota 20 adds a barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, and a microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps.  The 20 model also allows a user to share waypoints, tracks, routes and geocaches wirelessly with other compatible Dakota, Foretrex®, Oregon®and
Colorado®users.



Oregon®

(4 models)The Oregon series combines a bright 3 inch color touchscreen, rugged design and a variety of hiker-friendly features.  The Oregon 450 and Oregon 450t offer a rugged, sunlight-readable, touchscreen along with a built-in basemap with shaded relief, a high-sensitivity receiver, barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, microSD™ card slot, picture viewer and more. The high-end Oregon 550 and 550t models each come with a built-in 3.2 megapixel autofocus digital camera with 4x digital zoom, and each photo taken by these devices is automatically geotagged with the location of where it was taken, allowing the user to navigate back to that exact spot in the future.



Rino®(5 models)Handheld two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) radios that integrate two-way voice communications with GPS navigation.  Features include patented “peer-to-peer position reporting” so you can transmit your location to another Rino radio.  The Rino 110 offers an FRS/GMRS radio plus basic GPS navigator. The Rino 120 adds an internal basemap and MapSource compatibility for street-level mapping.  The Rino 130 has 24 MB of internal memory, built-in electronic compass, barometric sensor, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather radio receiver.  The Rino 520HCx has a high sensitivity GPS receiver, 5
watts of transmit power, color display, mini-USB interface, and a turn-by turn automatic route calculation for use in automobiles.  The Rino 530HCx has all of the features of the Rino 520HCx, plus a seven-channel weather receiver, electronic compass, and barometric altimeter.






GPSMAP®62

(3 models)Rugged outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and outdoors enthusiasts. The basic GPSMAP 62 includes a built-in worldwide basemap with shaded relief. The GPSMAP 62s adds a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass and wireless connectivity for sharing routes, tracks, waypoints and geocaches between other compatible Garmin handhelds. The GPSMAP 62s also includes a barometric altimeter that tracks changes in pressure to pinpoint the precise altitude. In addition to these  features, the GPSMAP 62st includes preloaded 100K topographic maps for the entire United States (or preloaded 50K topographic mapping of Canada for the Canadian version).



Approach®

(3 models)The Approach G5 is a waterproof, touchscreen, handheld GPS for golfers that features over 14,000 preloaded golf course maps. Approach G5 uses a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to measure individual shot distances and show the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens.  A new statistic-tracking feature was made available by download for the G5 in 2010 that allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics.  The Approach G3 is a smaller, lighter version of the G5, yet still offers over 14,000 preloaded courses.  Neither model requires any ongoing subscription fees.  In October 2010, Garmin announced the newest Approach model – the Approach®S1.  The S1 is a wearable golf watch that displays precise yardages to the front, back and middle of greens and comes preloaded with over 14,000 courses.



Astro®High sensitivity GPS-enabled dog tracking system.  The Astro is designed to pinpoint up to ten dogs’ positions at one time through all-weather collars and a handheld system.  The system also provides a Dog Tracker page and a Covey Countertmto assist the hunter.  It is loaded with many of the features of our outdoor devices including:  barometric altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior.



GTU-10 GPS TrackerOn January 4, 2011, Garmin announced the GTU™10, which represents a new category of product for Garmin.  The GTU10 is a GPS locator that combines a web-based tracking service with GPS technology so the user can keep track of children, pets and property by monitoring the device’s location through either a phone or the internet.  The GTU 10 is expected to launch in the first quarter of 2011.



Marine



Garmin’s marine products include handhelds, network products and multifunction displays, fixed-mount GPS/chartplotter products, instruments, fishfinders, radar, autopilots, VHF radios, marine networking products, and sounder products.    The table below includes a sampling of some of the marine products that Garmin currently offers to consumers.



Marine Chartplotters and Networking Products



GPSMAP®7000 series(4 models)The GPSMAP 7000 series of large format multi-function displays introduced Garmin’s G Motion technology, which represents an upgrade in speed, smoothness and clarity over prior plotters.  G Motion technology delivers ultra-smooth map panning and zooming with virtually seamless graphical updating in all dimensions.  The 7000 series chartplotters also feature a low-level backlight display and a backlit keypad for use in low-light conditions without compromising vision.  The GPSMAP 7x15 series offers a huge 15-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable touchscreen display, and is offered in two models – the GPSMAP 7015 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery
basemap; and the GPSMAP 7215, which comes pre-loaded with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas. Mariners can also opt for the same XGA resolution in a 12-inch diagonal screen configuration with the GPSMAP 7012 and GPSMAP 7212 models, which offer a worldwide basemap and coastal charts respectively.  All models are compatible with an optional wireless remote and a wireless mouse for additional flexibility and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data).






GPSMAP®6000 series

(4 models)Like the 7000 series, the 6000 series models also offer Garmin’s G Motion technology and the features to improve visibility in low-light conditions.  The GPSMAP 6x12 series features a traditional soft-key interface with an alphanumeric keypad and a 12-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable display.  Within this family, Garmin offers the GPSMAP 6012 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 6212 with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas preloaded.  For a smaller display, the GPSMAP 6x08 series offers an 8-inch VGA (640 x 480) sunlight readable display with a soft-key interface.  The models in
the GPSMAP 6000 series are all compatible with an optional wireless remote and also offer expanded “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity.



GPSMAP®5000 series

(6 models)These touch-screen multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network (a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data) offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color.  The 5212 and 5208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart®g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance.  The 5215 and 5015 offer 15-inch diagonal sunlight-readable touchscreen displays.



GPSMAP®4000 series/

4200 series (6 models)These multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color.  The 4212 and 4208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with Garmin’s BlueChart®g2 Vision™ charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance.  The 4210 and 4010 feature 10.4-inch diagonal sunlight- readable displays and Garmin’s newer marine user interface.



GPSMAP®6x0and 7x0 series

(6 models)The 6x0  series chartplotters offer a super-bright WVGA touchscreen display and provide navigational support for both marine mode and automotive mode (when loaded with optional City Navigator®NT road maps for North America).  The 7x0 models  are  touchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters  offering radar capability and built-in sonar..



GPSMAP®5x6 and 5x1

series (12 models)Building upon the success of the GPSMAP 400 and 500 series, the new chartplotters in the GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1 series come standard with an internal high-sensitivity GPS receiver that allows for faster acquisition times and better satellite tracking so that boaters are able to acquire and maintain a GPS fix more easily. In addition, these units boast an improved, high-speed digital design that will increase map drawing and panning speeds.  The sounder (“s”) version of each model comes with a powerful dual-frequency transducer that clearly illustrates depth contours, fish targets and structures in either fresh or salt water.  Many of the new models in this series are also NMEA 2000
certified and can interface with Garmin’s full lineup of NMEA 2000 marine sensors and autopilots, as well as many other third-party sensors.






GPSMAP®4x1series (6 models)With a 4-inch QVGA sunlight-readable display, the GPSMAP 4x1 series was designed for the boater who wants high performance in a small package.  These units feature a high-sensitivity GPS receiver and faster processors, and are offered with the same cartography configuration as the GPSMAP 5x1 series. Likewise, the GPSMAP 4x1s series is also available with a built-in sonar with a 500-watt RMS dual-frequency transducer for offshore use and a 400-watt RMS with a dual beam transducer for inland use.  For satellite weather and radio data, the GPSMAP 441 and 421 are also compatible with the GXM 51 receiver.GSD 21 and 22These “black-box” sounders interface with Garmin display units and chartplotters and enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package.GMS 10The GMS 10 Network Port Expander is the "nerve center" of the Garmin Marine Network.  This 100-Mbit switch is designed to support the connection of multiple sensors to the Garmin Marine Network.



Other Marine Products



GMI 10The GMI 10 is a NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument that displays data from multiple remote sensors on one screen.  Mariners can use the GMI 10 to display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon what sensors are connected.



GPSMAP 78

(3 models)Marine-friendly GPS handhelds featuring a new contemporary industrial design with rubber side grips. The flagship GPSMAP 78sc model adds  high-end features such as a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States.



VHF Marine Radios

(4 models)This series of marine radios offers differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners.  The VHF 100 is an entry-level, NMEA 0183 compatible VHF marine radio.  The VHF 200 is NMEA 2000 compatible.  The next step up is the VHF 300, which is designed for 35+ foot boats and is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible and offers multi-station support.  Also designed for 35+ foot boats, the VHF 300 AIS is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time.



Marine

Autopilot Systems

(4 models)The newest entry to Garmin’s marine autopilot lineup is the GHP 12, a full-featured marine autopilot designed specifically for sailboats.  This second-generation autopilot is designed for 20- to 70-foot sailboats with linear-actuated steering systems.  For power boats, the GHP 10 autopilot comes with Garmin’s patented Shadow Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, allowing the helmsman to maneuver the boat. This autopilot automatically re-engages when a steady course is held by the helmsman. The TR-1 Gold Marine Autopilot offers worry-free remote steering and speed control to operators of small gasoline outboard motor boats up to
20 horsepower.  Finally, the GHP 10V Autopilot System for Volvo Penta IPS and Sterndrive Joystick Systems is approved for use with boats that have an integrated Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system and features Garmin’s proven and innovative Shadow Drive™ technology – a patented capability that automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, allowing for quick and safe manual maneuvers without manually disengaging the autopilot.






Fishfinders(10 models)Garmin offers 10 different fishfinder options spanning various price points.  The latest addition to Garmin’s fishfinder lineup is five different models of Garmin’s new echo™ fishfinder series, a line of standalone fishfinders that all offer an updated look and new Garmin HD-ID™ target tracking technology.  The echo™ line ranges in price points from models with grayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C, which features a video-quality 640x480 pixel 5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish arch display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet.  In addition to the echo™ series, Garmin also offers five additional
fishfinder options.  All of these models feature Garmin’s Ultrascroll™ technology, which allows boaters to get a faster refresh rate on their sonar display, and dual-beam transducer operation.  Three of these models offer color displays.  The Fishfinder 400C comes with dual beam or dual frequency transducers for easy adaptability to either freshwater or saltwater fishing.  It also offers a new, easy-to-use interface and built in CANet connectivity to enable sonar data to be shared with compatible Garmin chartplotters.



Radar(11 models)Garmin offers both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double as the radar screen.  The GMR™ 18 and 24 models are digital radome products in various sizes and power specifications.  The GMR 404 and 406 open array radar scanners provide even greater clarity and a 72 nautical mile range.  The GMR 18 HD and GMR 24 HD radomes feature digital signal processing providing sharper radar imagery and improved target separation.  The newest generation of open-array digital radar scanners are the GMR™ 1204/1206 xHD, the GMR 604/606 xHD and the GMR 404/406 xHD models, which
transmit with 12, 6 and 4 kilowatts of power respectively.  All six of these open-array scanners have a maximum effective range of 72 nautical miles.  These new xHD scanners provide up to eight times more sampling data than Garmin’s current open-array offerings.



Aviation



Garmin’s aviation product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products,  audio panels, cockpit datalink systems and more.






Flying

Aviation Consumer



Flying

Aviation Consumer

Flying

Flying

Aviation Consumer

®

Professional Pilot

Aviation International News

Air Transport World Magazine



Garmin’s aviation products are sold in both new aircraft/helicopters and the retrofit market where existing aircraft/helicopters are fitted with the latest electronics from Garmin’s broad product line.



Garmin has also expanded its range of avionics offerings to leading General Aviation aircraft manufacturers such as the Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Hawker Beechcraft Corporation, Diamond Aircraft Industries, Embraer, Piper Aircraft, Inc., DAHER- SOCATA and Quest Aircraft  through the installation of the G1000 integrated flight deck as original equipment aboard new aircraft. This system integrates attitude, heading, air data, navigation, communication, engine monitoring, and other aircraft functions into a single cohesive system which interfaces with the flight crew using a set of large, bright TFT displays.  The G1000 also includes an integrated autopilot – the
GFC700.  Garmin also has expanded its G1000 certifications to the business jet segment, such as Cessna’s Citation Mustang jet and Embraer’s Phenom 100 and Phenom 300.  Garmin has also announced its next generation integrated flight deck systems, the G3000 and G5000.  Cessna Aircraft Company announced in October 2010 that they have selected Garmin’s G5000 for their flagship business jet, the Citation Ten.  Both Honda Aircraft Corporation and Piper Aircraft simultaneously announced that the G3000 has been selected for the HondaJet and PiperJet respectively.



The table below includes a sampling of some of the aviation products currently offered by Garmin:



Handheld and portable aviation products:



aera®series(4 models)Garmin’s newest aviation handheld series combines the latest aviation portable with a full-featured automotive GPS, allowing pilots to transition between aviation to automotive mode with one touch.  Featuring a crisp 4.3-inch QVGA wide-format display with touchscreen interface, all four aera models come with preloaded automotive maps, a built-in terrain/obstacles aviation database, patented Panel Page instrument display, and other features.  When in aviation mode, pilots see colorful icons that use intuitive pictures and labels to indicate their function. The exterior of each aera model (500, 510, 550 and 560) is identical, but the software features of each model are
tailored to those seeking an entry, mid or high-level aviation handheld.GPSMAP 695/696The GPSMAP 696  offers a bright 7-inch screen, preloaded detailed electronic charts, preloaded airways and IFR map mode. The GPSMAP 696 has a receiver for XM radio and XM WX Satellite Weather (U.S. customers only) that gives next generation radar (NEXRAD), aviation routine weather reports (METARs), terminal aerodrome forecasts (TAFs), temporary flight restrictions (TFRs), lightning, winds aloft, turbulence forecasts, and several other important weather products (XM subscription required). The GPSMAP 695 has the same features except for XM radio and weather.  In July 2010, Garmin announced that the 695/696 would receive new enhanced chart capabilities.






Pilot My-CastSMPilot My-Cast by Garmin is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on compatible mobile phones.  Compared to other aviation weather cell phone applications, Pilot My-Cast is unique because it receives aviation data directly from the National Weather Service, Environment Canada, and Federal Aviation Administration.  Pilot My-Cast is available for both the iPhone®and iPad®.



Integrated avionics systems:



G5000™Following the announcement of the G3000 one year earlier, in October 2010 Garmin announced the G5000, the first touchscreen-controlled integrated glass avionics suite designed for FAR Part 25 business jets. The G5000 — which is scalable for use in a wide range of two-crew aircraft, from light jets to super-midsize and larger models — is designed specifically for crew-flown turbine aircraft and combines a dual multi-sensor flight management system (FMS), touchscreen vehicle management units, and multi-pane cockpit displays. These widescreen displays with touchscreen controls give pilots more useful information at their fingertips than ever before, such as worldwide weather,
Garmin’s synthetic vision technology (SVT™), aircraft synoptics, electronic flight charts, and more.

G3000™Announced in October 2009, the G3000, which is designed for use in FAR Part 23 turbine aircraft, is the first touchscreen-controlled integrated flightdeck for light turbine aircraft.  It features extra-wide 14.1-inch displays with split-screen MFD viewing functionality and PFD terrain simulation in 3-D perspective with SVT™ Synthetic Vision Technology.  In July 2010, Garmin announced a new stability augmentation function for the G3000 (and its predecessor G1000) called Garmin’s Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system. This electronic monitoring and correction technology for G3000 and G1000 integrated flight decks works to assist the pilot in
maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain situations to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become distracted, disoriented or incapacitated during flight.  Garmin ESP will be offered as an option on select G3000 and G1000-equipped aircraft.



G1000®The G1000 integrates navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution color displays.  The G1000 offers general aviation airplane manufacturers an easy-to-install solution for flight displays and provides the aircraft owner the benefits of a state-of-the-art avionics system which relies on modern technologies such as solid state components and bright, sunlight-readable TFT displays.



G600The G600 brings the style and function of an all-glass integrated avionics suite to the retrofit market for FAR Part 23 Class I, II or III aircraft.  The G600 incorporates two individual displays – a PFD and MFD – in a customized package specifically designed for easy retrofit installation. The G600 is designed to communicate and integrate with Garmin’s WAAS enabled panel mount products, and provides essential information such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain and traffic.  Garmin has received the FAA’s Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certification (AML STC) for the G600, which will simplify certification for over 300 different aircraft
models.



G500Designed specifically for FAR Part 23 Class I/Class II aircraft (singles and twins under 6,000 lbs.), the G500 is an affordable, dual-screen electronic flight display that works with a pilot’s separate Garmin avionics stack to provide a fully TSO’d “glass cockpit” retrofit option.  The G500 does not include all of the same standard functionality as the G600 (for example, the G500 does not offer SVT (Synthetic Vision Technology) or a standard GAD 43 interface adapter.






G500HAn all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market.  The G500H contains dual 6.5-inch LCD screens, mounted side-by-side in a single bezel, which puts Primary Flight Display (PFD) and Multi-Function Display (MFD) capabilities right in front the helicopter pilot. The G500H has been optimized for rotorcraft and offers features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather with NEXRAD, and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources.G900X™An all-glass integrated avionics system specifically designed for kitplane builders of the Lancair and Van’s RV-series aircraft. The G900X is a fully-customizable glass cockpit for installation in experimental/kitbuilt and light sport aircraft.  The G900X offers a customizable PFD/MFD combination that features one, two or three all-glass displays; magnetometer; ADAHRS (combined air data and AHRS unit) and engine monitoring.



GDU 370/375Multifunction displays for the light sport retrofit and experimental aircraft markets.



Panel-mount aviation products:



400W Series

(3 models)The GNS 430W is the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) successor to Garmin’s popular GNS 430, which was the world’s first ‘‘all-in-one’’ IFR certified GPS navigation receiver/traditional VHF navigation receiver/instrument landing systems receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver. Features available in different 400 series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation capabilities.  In 2010, Garmin announced a new Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) as an option for the GNS 430W/530W series navigators.  When added to the GNS 430W/530W, helicopter pilots will receive graphical and
audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle conflicts along the flight path.



500W Series

(2 models)These units combine the features of the 400W series along with a larger 5” color display.  The 530W Series comes standard with Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) capability and may be ordered with or upgraded to Class B Terrain Awareness and Warning System (TAWS-B) capability.



GTS™ TAS and

TCAS I SystemsThe GTS 800 series of traffic avoidance products combines active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic threats. The systems use Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology and correlates automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets. The GTS 800 TAS is a lower-cost system, offering 40 watts of transmit power and a range of up to 12 nautical miles. The GTS 820 TAS delivers 250 watts of transmit power and up to 40 nautical miles of interrogation range. The GTS 850 TCAS I satisfies all TCAS I collision avoidance criteria for higher-capability turboprops and jets.  It features the same 250 watt performance as the GTS 820, and
also meets the FAA’s TCAS I certification criteria






GI-102A & 106ACourse deviation indicators (CDIs). The GI-106A features an instrument landing system receiver to aid in landing.GMA 240, 340 & 347The GMA 340 is a feature-rich audio panel with six-place stereo intercom and independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities.  The GMA 347 has automatic squelch, digital clearance recorder, and a full-duplex telephone interface.  The GMA 340 and 347 are both TSO’d.  The GMA 240 is a versatile, non-TSO’d audio panel designed for experimental and light sport aircraft.GTX™ 330 & 330DFAA-certified Mode S transponders with data link capability, including local air traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS).  These transponders may also be optionally upgraded to provide 1090 MHz Extended Squitter (ES) transmission capabilities, which will increase situational awareness once the Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) system is fully implemented.

GTX 320A,327 & 328FAA-certified transponders which transmit altitude or flight identification to air traffic control radar systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance devices and feature solid-state construction for longer life.  The GTX 327 offers a digital display with timing functions.  The 328 is designed exclusively for Europe and satisfies the European requirement for a Mode S solution that meets the reduced certification requirements for the VFR Mode S mandate.



GDL 90The GDL 90 was the first airborne Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) product certified by the FAA to TSO C145A standards.  The GDL 90 allows pilots in the cockpit and air traffic controllers on the ground to “see” aircraft traffic with much more precision than has ever been possible before without the costly infrastructure of ground based tracking radar.  The GDL 90 relies on the infrastructure that is part of the FAA’s Safe Flight 21 program.  This program is currently under development with implementation of the ground-based portion of the ADS-B network taking place along the East Coast and other selected areas of the
U.S.A.  Additional installations of the ADS-B ground stations are planned.  The ground stations can track aircraft movement and eventually are expected to be used to broadcast traffic and weather services.  Pilots equipped with the GDL 90 and operating within the ground station coverage area will receive aircraft traffic and real-time weather information free of charge.



GSR 56The GSR 56 is Garmin’s newest datalink product.  It provides pilots with access to on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required).  In addition to the many on-demand satellite weather features, the GSR 56 offers a worldwide tracking solution that continuously monitors an aircraft’s status enroute.  It can automatically provide GPS-referenced position reports at predetermined intervals so those on the ground can track a plane’s flight status and position.



GDL 69 and 69AThe GDL 69 offers the ability to provide real-time weather information to the aircraft which can be displayed on one of several panel-mounted devices, such as the GNS 430, GNS 530, MX20, and G1000 systems. The GDL 69 and GDL 69A receive real-time weather information broadcast by the XM WX Satellite radio system.  In addition, the GDL 69A expands the utility of the system by providing CD quality audio provided by XM Satellite Radio (separate subscriptions for weather data and audio required).



GMX 200™A large (6.5 inch) sunlight-readable, high-resolution, multi-function display.



SL 30 and SL 40The SL30 is a compact VHF navigation and communications unit that combines a 760-channel VHF communications radio with 200-channel glideslope and localizer receivers.  The SL40 is a 760-channel VHF communications radio only.  Both the SL30 and SL40 feature 10 watt communications transmitters.




GWX™ 68The GWX 68 is an all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitter that brings real-time weather to Garmin’s newest multi-function displays.



Sales and Marketing



Garmin’s non-aviation products are sold through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors in approximately 100 countries who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customer’s purchases represented 10% or more of Garmin’s consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 25, 2010.  Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmin’s offices in Olathe, Kansas (North, South and Central America),in the U.K. (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa), France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Belgium, Norway, Netherlands,
Poland, Australia (also covering New Zealand), China and in Taiwan (Asia).  Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.



Garmin’s U.S. consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales managers and in-house sales associates. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors include:



·Best Buy—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics retailers;



·Amazon.com—internet retailer;



·Costco—an international chain of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name merchandise;



·Halford’s—a large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories;



·Petra—a large distributor who sells to a wide range of dealers;



·Target— one of the nation’s largest general merchandise retailers;



·Wal-Mart—the world’s largest mass retailer; and



·Wynit—a large distributor who sells to a wide range of dealers.



Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort.



Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation portable products are sold through select aviation distributors around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also through catalogs and pilot shops.  Garmin’s largest aviation distributors include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Sportsman’s Market, TGH Aviation, Sarasota Avionics and Elliott Aviation.  Avionics distributors have the training, equipment and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.










Competition



The market for navigation, communications and information products is highly competitive.  Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability.  Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas.





Research and Development



Garmin’s product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering and manufacturing teams.  Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 2,340 people worldwide as of December 25, 2010.  Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and cartographic
engineers.  Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.  Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition it into manufacturing.






Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures on research and development over the last three fiscal years.



December 25,December 26,December 27,201020092008($'s in thousands)Research and development$277,261$238,378$206,109Percent of net sales10.3%8.1%5.9%



Manufacturing and Operations



Garmin believes that one of its core competencies and strengths is its manufacturing capability at its Sijhih, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities, its Olathe, Kansas facility, and its Salem, Oregon facility.  Garmin believes that its vertically integrated approach has provided it the following benefits with respect to all products other than the legacy nüvifone products, which are manufactured by one or more third parties as part of the Garmin-Asus strategic alliance,  a few select marine products (VHF radios and AIS receivers), and our accessory products, all of which are also manufactured by one or more third parties.



Reduced time-to-market.Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmin’s products are introduced to production at an early development stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass production begins.  In this manner, Garmin attempts to reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries.



Design and process optimization.Garmin uses its manufacturing resources to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in order to achieve higher efficiency, improved quality and yields, lower cost and better value for customers.  Garmin’s ability to fully explore product design and manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to minimize size and weight in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and rugged.



Logistical agility.Operating our own manufacturing facilities helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages and long component lead times which are common in the electronics industry.  Many products can be re-engineered to bypass component shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can be delivered to market quickly.  Garmin reacts rapidly to changes in market demand by striving to maintain a safety stock of long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to another.   Operating our own manufacturing facilities also allows Garmin to quickly
adjust the mix of product production, helping to foster faster delivery response to the customer.



Garmin’s design, manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facilities have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers.  In addition, Garmin’s aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry.



Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO14001 standard.  This certification recognizes that Garmin’s UK and Taiwan subsidiaries have systems and processes in place to minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance.



Materials



Although most components essential to Garmin’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components, including, but not limited to, microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (“LCDs”), and certain  application-specific integrated circuits (“ASICs”) are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (“DRAM”), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and
commodity pricing fluctuations.








Seasonality



Our sales are subject to significant seasonal fluctuation.  Sales of our consumer products are generally significantly higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand for automotive/mobile products during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer marine season and the Father’s Day/graduation buying season.  Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products.  Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products when the
initial demand is typically the strongest.



Backlog



Our sales are generally of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment.  Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business.  We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.



Intellectual Property



Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology.  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography technology for use in our products from various sources.



As of January 21, 2010, Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 450 patents and 300 trademark registrations.  Garmin was selected as a constituent of the 2010/2011 Ocean Tomo®300 Patent Index  which recognizes companies with high intellectual property value. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate.  Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in
its proprietary technologies.






There is no assurance that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.  Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights
of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.



Regulations



The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change.  In accordance with Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver and cellular handset products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold.  Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission.  A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely
affect our business.    In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in “type certificated aircraft” are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft.





Environmental Matters



Garmin’s operations are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business.  Currently, we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.



Environmental regulation of Garmin’s products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products.  Compliance with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial.



Garmin has implemented multiple Environmental Management System (“EMS”) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards, and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility, Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.






Regulatory and “Green Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing, particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established.  Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.



Employees



As of December 25, 2010, Garmin had 8,897 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,470 were in the United States, 72 were in Canada, 4,419 were in Taiwan, 725 were in Europe, and 211 were in other global locations.   Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement.  Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.



