Item
1.	Business



This discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should
be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations” under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in
such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin has identified five reportable segments
for external reporting purposes: Auto, Aviation, Marine, Outdoor and Fitness. There are two operating segments (Auto PND and Auto
OEM) that are not reported separately but are aggregated within the Auto reportable segment. Each operating segment is individually
reviewed and evaluated by our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment
individually. The segment and geographic information included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”
under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1.



Garmin was incorporated
in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (“Garmin Cayman”). Garmin
Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate
a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company
of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation
of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the “Redomestication”).
Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common
share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (CHF)
per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group.



Garmin’s annual
report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by
Garmin’s directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through
the Investor Relations section of Garmin’s website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material
is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains
an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding
issuers that file electronically with the SEC.








The reference to Garmin’s
website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information
should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K.



Company Overview



For over 25 years,
Garmin Ltd. and subsidiaries (together, the “Company”) has pioneered new Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation
and wireless devices and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin serves five primary business
units, including auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures, markets and distributes
a diverse family of hand-held, wearable, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications, sensor-based
and information products. Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 157 million products, which includes the
delivery of more than 16 million products during 2015.



Overview of the Global Positioning System



The Global Positioning
System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite
technology. The system consists of numerous constellations of orbiting satellites. Access to the systems is provided free of charge.



Garmin utilizes a variety
of global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) including, but not limited to:

·The satellites and their ground control
and monitoring stations maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite
replenishment program to ensure continuous global system coverage.

·Japan’s MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation
System (MSAS) which achieved initial operating capability for enroute, terminal and approach navigation for aviation on September
27, 2007.

·The European Geostationary Navigation
Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service which achieved initial operating capability for enroute, terminal,
and approach navigation on March 2, 2011.

·The Global Navigation Satellite System
(GLONASS), a space-based satellite navigation system operated by the Russian Federation, consisting of 24 satellites and providing
world-wide coverage. In certain urban canyon or restricted sky visibility situations, the use of both GPS and GLONASS satellites
to produce a navigation fix may result in improved accuracy.



The accuracy and utility
of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections
to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) comprising
ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United States
and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal
and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of
WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications.



Products



Garmin offers a broad range of solutions
across its reportable segments as outlined below. In general,Garmin believes that its products are known for their value,
high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics.



Auto



Garmin offers a broad range of auto navigation
products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market.  Garmin currently offers to
consumers around the world:








Personal
Navigation Devices (PND) –



PNDs combine a full-featured GPS
navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmin’s uniquely simple user interface.  PNDs are sold under the nüvi®,
zūmo®, dēzl™, RV and fleet product lines.  The zūmo series offers motorcycle-specific features.
RV series offers features specific to the RV enthusiast. The dēzl series offers over-the-road trucking features while the
fleet series delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch fleet system.  Across the expansive product portfolio, Garmin offers
features such as large screens, integrated traffic receivers for traffic avoidance (including some models with lifetime traffic
updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names, voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist with
PhotoReal junction views - thousands of high quality photos of actual upcoming junctions, Bluetooth hands-free capability,
DashCams/Passenger Cams, driver awareness alerts, and backup cameras.  In fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, the nüvi
class of products represented approximately 22%, 27%, and 34% of Garmin’s total consolidated revenues, respectively.





Infotainment
Solutions –



In addition to PNDs, Garmin has
many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) providing infotainment solutions ranging from portable solutions
utilizing an integrated mount within the vehicle to software navigation solutions to fully embedded systems offering a broad range
of functionality.



Mobile
Applications –



Garmin offers mobile applications
under the StreetPilot® and NAVIGON® product names.  The applications are offered across a broad range of smartphones
and tablets including iOS, Android and Windows enabled devices.  These applications provide users turn-by-turn, voice-prompted
directions and other advanced Garmin navigation features.



Outdoor



Garmin
offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities.Garmin currently
offers to consumers around the world:



Outdoor
Handhelds –



Outdoor handhelds range from basic waypoints navigation capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices
offering barometric altimeter, 3-axis compass, camera, microSD™ card slot for optional customized maps, Bluetooth for smartphone
connectivity, and other features. Outdoor handhelds are sold under the Oregon®, Rino®, Montana®, Monterra®, eTrex®,
and GPSMAP® product lines. Each series of products is designed to serve various price points and niche activity categories.
The Rino series of handhelds additionally offers two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) that
integrate two-way voice communications. The Monterra isGarmin’s
first Wi-Fi enabled, Android-based outdoor handheld GPS.



Wearable
Devices –



Garmin offers GPS ruggedized smartwatches for outdoor activity. The fēnix®3 provides advanced multisport features for hiking, climbing, skiing, running, cycling, and swimming. The epix®provides advanced multisport features, comprehensive mapping, navigation and tracking functionalities, as well as trip information,
such as heading, elevation and weather changes. The tactix®adds additional features inspired
by the requirements of law enforcement and police special operations.








Golf
Devices –



The Approach® series of golf-focused devices includes both handhelds and wrist-worn products with
over 40,000 preloaded worldwide golf courses. The offerings range from basic display of yardages to the front, back and middle
of greens to advanced, touchscreen devices providing measurement of individual shot distances and display of the slope-adjusted
yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A statistic-tracking feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics through
Garmin Connect™. Some devices include swing metrics, which gives audible tones to fine-tune swing tempo, an internal compass
which provides directional assistance to the pin on blind shots, manual pin positioning, which allows users to tap and drag the
flag on the green for precise yardage to the flag, and the ability to display emails, text messages and alerts.



Dog Tracking
and Training/Pet Obedience Devices –



Garmin offers a series of dog-focused
products providing a range of functionality including GPS-enabled dog tracking, electronic dog training, and electronic bark correction.
The products are offered under the Astro®, Alpha®, PRO, Sport PRO™,
BarkLimiter™ and Delta® product lines. The Astro series can pinpoint multiple dogs’ positions at one time through
all-weather collars and a handheld system, which features many of our outdoor capabilities including: barometric altimeter, electronic
compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior. Alpha combines the tracking capabilities of Astro with electronic
dog training.The BarkLimiter is an intuitive electronic bark correction device. The Delta and PRO
series of training collars offers a remote training device with integrated bark limiting capability for consumer and professional
dog training markets.



Action
Cameras –



Garmin offers VIRB® X and VIRB® XE action cameras with digital image stabilization, lens distortion
correction, and the ability to take high quality still photographs while the video camera is recording. VIRB X and VIRB XE offer
built-in Wi-Fi, data sensors and a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to add speed, elevation, G-force, heart rate, and other data onto
video through our VIRB Edit application. A SATM waterproof case allows images to be captured above and below the water without
the need for additional hardware.



Fitness



Garmin
offers a broad range of products designed for use in fitness and activity tracking.Garmin
currently offers to consumers around the world:



Running/Multi-Sport Watches –



The Forerunner® series offers compact, lightweight training watches for athletes with integrated GPS
sensor that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function and heart-rate
based calorie computation. In 2015, Garmin added the Forerunner 235 with Garmin Elevate™,
providing a wrist-based heart rate monitoring solution designed by Garmin. All models allow runners to upload their data to Garmin
Connect™, where they can store, analyze and share their workout data. Additional advanced
features include: Virtual Racer™, which allows runners to race against their previous best times, recovery advisor, race
predictor and VO2 max estimate. The Forerunner 9x0XT series is designed specifically for triathletes. These all-in-one GPS-enabled
devices provide detailed swim metrics and track distance, speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling.








Cycling
Computers –



The Edge® series measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, and altitude
offering an integrated personal training system designed for cyclists. In addition, Garmin offers devices geared toward performance-driven
cyclists offering real-time connectivity through a smartphone, providing live tracking, social media sharing and real-time weather
updates.



Cycling
Power Meter –



Garmin offers Vector™,
which is a high-precision pedal-based power meter designed specifically for cyclists. It provides power data to ANT+® compatible
devices. Some models also measure and present right and left leg power balance.





Cycling
Safety and Awareness –





Garmin offers the Varia™product line focused on cycling safety and awareness. Varia bike radar alerts cyclists when vehicles are approaching from behind
and Varia bike lights make the cyclist more visible when out on the road. Varia Vision™is a heads up display that makes data available to the cyclist in their line of sight, so they don’t need to always look
down at their Edge product while they are moving.



Activity
Tracking Devices –



Garmin offers numerous devices to address the growing activity tracking market. The vívofit®fitness bands provide a personalized daily goal, track progress and remind users when it’s time
to move. The devices feature a curved display that show steps, goal countdown, calories, distance, time of day and heart rate when
paired with a monitor. Thevívosmart® and vívosmart® HR bands provide the same functions as the vívofit
but also include smart notifications and a vibration alert. The vívosmart HR also incorporates Garmin Elevate. vívoactive®
is a smartwatch focused on the active lifestyle consumer with all the basic activity tracking features along with applications
designed for running, cycling and swimming and includes connectivity to the Connect IQ™ application store for further customizations
and capabilities.



Garmin
Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile –



Garmin
Connect™ and Garmin Connect™Mobile are web and mobile platforms where users
can track and analyze their fitness and wellness data. In addition, users can share their accomplishments, create training groups,
and get feedback and encouragement from the Connect community.








Marine



Garmin offers a broad
range of products designed for use in the recreational marine industry. Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world:



Chartplotters
and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs) –



Garmin
offers numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP® and echoMAP™ product lines. The offerings range from 4-inch portable
and fix-mounted products to 19-inch fully-integrated Glass Helm offerings. Cartography options range from US coastal and inland
lake mapping to worldwide basemaps to highly detailed BlueChart® g2 Visio® to LakeVü
HD Ultra charts offering auto-guidance, 3-D chart views and aerial reference photos. BlueChart g2 Visio and LakeVü HD Ultra
include Garmin’s most detailed lake cartography created based on surveys by Garmin’s fleet of high tech boats.Additional advanced features and connectivity available include smartphone applications that wirelessly send weather data to your
plotter and remotely access your helm electronics. Additionally, some models have the CHIRP sonar function fully integrated to
reduce system cost.Our chartplotters
also support “plug-and-play” access to onboard sensors and Garmin accessories with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network
connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, SiriusXM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other
components).



Fishfinders
–



Garmin offers a new advanced line of fishfinders, the Striker™ series, which incorporate GPS technology.
These fishfinders are available in screen sizes from 4 to 7 inches and are paired with our latest technology sonar transducers
to provide the clearest sonar pictures on the water. DownVü
sonar is offered on the 4-, 5- and 7-inch models which provides high resolution images of what is below the boat. The 7-inch model
also offers a SideVü option which provides similar high resolution images but reaches much further out on either side of the
boat making the search for fish more efficient. The GPS technology enables anglers to mark their best fishing spots and then easily
return to them next weekend, next month, or next year. An additional bonus with GPS on board is that Striker can provide very accurate
speed data which boaters will enjoy.



Sounders
–



Garmin offers “black-box” sounders and “smart transducers” which interface with
Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package. The
black boxes provide CHIRP, DownVü, and SideVü
sonar similar to our integrated sonar plotters, but can be mounted in a more convenient location away from the helm. Additionally,
we offer up to 3kW transmit power with our black box line-up which will reach deeper depths for ocean use. Our newest smart transducer
line is Panoptix™. It uses new technology to provide detailed images that can be seen
real-time (LiveVü). Panoptix also offers 3D sonar views to give a good perspective of the landscape underneath the water.
The RealVü 3D and 3D historical views are available in thru-hull and transom mount versions of our Panoptix DownVü product.
Another feature of Panoptix is the LiveVü and RealVü 3D real-time presentation of what is out in front of your vessel.



Autopilot Systems –



Garmin offers full-featured marine
autopilot systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features as: Garmin’s patented Shadow
Drive™ technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control,
and integration with the Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire autopilot capabilities
for various steering systems.








Radar
–

Garmin offers both radomes and
open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter. When paired with our newer MFDs, the
radars support dual-range mode so users can operate the radar in two ranges independently. The Garmin radar solutions range from
18 inches to 6 feet antennas and from 4kW up to 25kW with a maximum range of 96 nautical miles.



Instruments
–



Garmin
offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument displays that show data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Mariners
can display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level,
wind direction and more, depending upon the specific sensors connected. Garmin instruments range from 4 to 7 inches and include
10-inch mast mounted displays for maximum visibility around the vessel.



VHF
Communication Radios –



Garmin
provides marine radios with differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners. Theentry-level
radio is NMEA 0183 compatible, while the premium radio is designed for 35+ foot boats, is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible,
offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time.



Handhelds
and Wrist-worn Devices –



Garmin offers a marine-friendly
GPS handheld featuring a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded
cartography for the coastal United States. Also offered for mariners is thequatix®,
Garmin’s first GPS watch designed for mariners, combining marine features and navigation and sailing capabilities while
integrating Garmin’s GPS technology and interface.



Sailing–



Garmin has integrated
many basic and advanced sailing features into our MFD and instrument systems. These features include enhanced wind rose, pre-race
guidance, synchronized race timer, virtual starting line, time to burn and lay line data fields.



Entertainment
–



Garmin’s entertainment brand, Fusion®,
consists of marine audio head units, speakers and amplifiers. These products are designed specifically for the marine environment
and support many connectivity options for integrating with MFDs and smartphones on your boat for the best user experience on the
market.



Aviation



Garmin’s aviation
product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight
instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems,
terrain awareness and warning systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, weather radar, surveillance products, audio
panels, cockpit datalink systems and more. The list below includes a sampling of some of the aviation capabilities currently offered
by Garmin:








Integrated
Avionics Systems/Flight Decks –



Garmin offers a range of integrated glass avionics from the G3X™ for the experimental and light-sport
aircraft market to the G5000® for business jet, military and commercial applications. Basic capabilities integrated include:
navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution color
displays. More advanced features include: Garmin’s 3-D synthetic vision technology (SVT™), weather, Garmin’s
electronic stability and protection system (ESP™), electronic flight charts and touchscreen controls, which utilize patent
pending infrared touchscreen technology, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is
responding to their input.



Garmin offers similar integrated glass avionics for the helicopter market through the G500H, G1000H®
and G5000H®.Basic and advanced capabilities are
similar to those offered to the aircraft market. The helicopter offerings have been optimized for rotorcraft and offer features
like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT™), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and nearly 30,000
additional low-altitude obstacles, SiriusXM Satellite Weather with NEXRAD, and the ability to display video from a forward looking
infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources.



Garmin also offers all-glass integrated avionics to the retrofit market through the G500, G600, G950®,
G1000® and G5000®. These solutions provide electronic flight displays that work with separate Garmin avionics to provide
essential information such as attitude, air data, weather,terrain
and traffic. In addition, upgraded systems also allow for the display and control of such data as altitude preselects and vertical
speed, DME distance, analog radar altitude, and analog navigation data.



Panel-mount
aviation products –



GPS/Navigation/Communication
Solutions –



Garmin provides certified GPS navigation receivers, traditional VHF navigation receivers, instrument landing
systems receivers and VHF communication transmitters/receivers. Features available in different GNC®, GTR™, GNS™
and GTN™ series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation capabilities,touchscreen
operation, graphical flight planning with Victor high-altitude and RNAV airways, remote transponder, remote audio control, SafeTaxi®
and electronic chart capabilities. Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS)is an option providing graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle conflicts along the flight path.



Traffic Solutions –



Garmin offers traffic avoidance
products combining active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specifictraffic threats. These
capabilities are part of our GTS™ series of systems. The systems use Garmin’s patent-pending CLEAR CAS™ technology
and correlate automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets.The offerings
include solutions for the range of light through transport category aircraft and helicopters.








Audio Solutions –



The GMA™ series are audio panels ranging from offerings with basic capabilities for the recreational
pilot to advanced capabilities includingvoice
recognition, 3D spatial audio processing, advanced auto squelch, ambient noise based volume adjustmentand
independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities.



Transponder Solutions –



Garmin provides a range of transponder
solutions in the GTX™ series. The FAA-certified transponders transmit surveillance parameters to air traffic control radar
systems or other aircraft’s air traffic avoidance devices. Newer transponders offer data link capability, including local
air traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS) and ADS-B compliance for the Next Generation
airspace system, via transmission of traffic surveillance data such as aircraft flight ID, position, altitude, velocity, climb/descent,
and heading information. Garmin offers solutions for the range of light through transport aircraft and helicopters.



UAT-Based ADS-B Solutions –



Garmin offers a range of FAA certified
UAT-based ADS-B products within the GDL® series. Configurations include products with and without mandate meeting internal
WAAS receivers and configurations which offer diversity (dual) antenna transmit/receive capability. The range of capabilities
across this line include the base ADS-B out transmit function, plus ADS-B in receive for FIS-B weather, TIS-B uplink and multilink
(1090MHz and 978MHz) air-to-air reception. Furthermore some of these products provide traffic correlation with other onboard traffic
systems such as TCAS to provide a single hybrid traffic feed to the display devices.



Weather Solutions –



Weather capabilities are delivered within our GDL®, GSR™ and GWX™ series. The solutions
range from offering SiriusXM satellite data link weather information (subscription required) to the aircraft via display devices
from Garmin and tabletsto on-demand global weather information,
text/voice communications and position tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). Available in the
GWX™ series is real-time airborne weather radar including magnetron-based and solid state weather radar solutions. Solid
state products include additional features such as Doppler-enhanced ground-clutter suppression and turbulence detection.



Portable
and Wearable Solutions –



Garmin offers the aera® series and GPSMAP® 695/696 as portable avionics solutions. The aera series
combines an aviation portable with a full-featured automotive
GPS. These touchscreen products come with a complement of aviation databases including navigation, SafeTaxi®, FliteCharts®,
airport directory and terrain/obstacles for heightened situational awareness. Advanced features include: a digital document viewer,
a scratch pad, pre-loaded geo-referenced charts, and SiriusXM radio and weather (subscription required). The aera 79x and GPSMAP
69x series offers detailed electronic charts, airways and IFR map mode. Complementing the portable display products and the Garmin
Pilot™ tablet application is the GDL® 39 which provides a remote GPS receiver plus ADS-B in information for traffic and
weather. Garmin announced D2™ Bravo in July 2015, which is a premium watch designed specifically for aviators.








Mobile
Application –



Garmin Pilot™ is a premium
flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on iOS and Android-based mobile devices. It
provides access to comprehensive global weather data, as available per region, that generally includes radar, weather report (METARS),
forecasts (TAFs), weather alerts (AIRMETS/SIGMETS), pilot reports, satellite imagery (visible and IR), winds and temperature aloft,
lightning data, and notices to airmen (NOTAM).



Sales and Marketing



Garmin’s non-aviation
products are sold in approximately 100 countries through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors,
who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customer’s purchases represented 10% or more of Garmin’s
consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 26, 2015. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmin’s
offices around the world. Garmin’s distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmin’s global penetration and presence
while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction.



Garmin’s
U.S. consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional
sales managers and in-house sales associates. Garmin’s Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product
sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmin’s
in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible
for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmin’s Taiwan-based marketing team handles
the Company’s Asia sales and marketing effort. Some of Garmin’s larger consumer products dealers and distributors
include:



·Amazon.com—internet retailer;

·Best Buy—one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics
retailers;

·Halfords—a
                                         large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories; and

·Wal-Mart—the world’s largest mass retailer



Garmin’s retrofit avionics and aviation
portable products are sold through select aviation dealers around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also
through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmin’s largest aviation dealers include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Elliott
Aviation, Gulf Coast Avionics Corp., Sarasota Avionics, and Sportsman’s Market. Avionics dealers have the training, equipment
and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmin’s avionics equipment.



In addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original
equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In the auto segment, Garmin’s products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs,
either directly or through tier 2 sourcing. Some of Garmin’s larger OEM relationships include BMW Motorrad, Bombardier, Chrysler,
Harley-Davidson, Honda, Mercedes Benz, Polaris, Suzuki and Volkswagen.In
the marine segment, Garmin’s products are standard equipment on various models of boats. Some of the larger OEM relationships
include Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner Boats (a division of Brunswick Corporation), Bavaria
Yacht, Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington Marine, LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt
Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline Boats, Ltd., Inha Works Ltd. and Regal Marine
Industries, Inc. In the aviation market, Garmin’s avionics are either standard equipment or options on various models of
aircraft. Some of the larger OEM relationships include AgustaWestland, Bombardier, Bell Helicopter-A Textron Company, Textron Aviation,
Cirrus Aircraft, Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Beechcraft Corporation, Pilatus Aircraft Ltd, Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest
Aircraft Company, and Robinson Helicopter Company.








Competition



In general, we operate
in highly competitive markets though competitive conditions do vary among our diverse products and geographies.  Garmin believes
the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer
service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability.  Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these
areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets.



Garmin believes that
its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (MiTAC) (which distributes
products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for infotainment solutions
are Harman International Industries, Panasonic Corporation, and the Mitsubishi Group. Garmin believes that its principal competitors
for outdoor product lines are Bushnell, DeLorme, Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, SportDOG Brand and Suunto Oy. For mobile products
Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Google Inc., Apple Inc. and Telenav Inc. Garmin believes that its principal
competitors for fitness products are Apple Inc., Bryton Corp., Fitbit Inc., AliphCom dba Jawbone, Polar Electro Oy, Sigma Sports,
Suunto Oy and Timex Corp. For marine products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Furuno Electronic Company, the
Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., Navico and Flir Systems, Inc. For Garmin’s aviation product lines, Garmin
considers its principal competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, CMC Electronics, Free Flight
Systems, Genesys Aerosystems, Honeywell, Inc., Innovative Solutions and Support Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins, Inc.,
Sagem SA and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation.



Research and Development



Garmin’s product
innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmin’s engineering
and manufacturing teams. Garmin’s products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 3,412 people
worldwide as of December 26, 2015. Garmin’s manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely
with Garmin’s design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin’s
development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and
cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmin’s success.
Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition
it into manufacturing.



Below is a table of Garmin’s expenditures
on research and development over the last three fiscal years.



December 26,December 27,December 28,($'s in thousands)201520142013Research and development427,043395,121364,923Percent of net sales15.1%13.8%13.9%



Manufacturing and Operations



Garmin believes one
of its core competencies and strengths is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its Taiwan facilities in Xizhi,
Jhongli and LinKou, its China facility in Yangzhou, and at its U.S. facilities in Olathe, Kansas and Salem, Oregon. Garmin believes
that its ownership and operation of its own manufacturing facilities and distribution networks provides significant capability
and flexibility to address the breadth and depth of resources necessary to serve its diverse products and markets.



Specifically, Garmin
believes that its vertical integration of its manufacturing capabilities provides advantages to product cost, quality and time
to market.








Cost:Garmin’s
manufacturing resources rapidly and iteratively prototype designs, concepts, products and processes, achieving higher efficiency,
resulting in lower cost. Garmin’s vertical integration approach enables leveraging our manufacturing resources across high,
mid and low volume products. Sharing of these resources across our product lines favorably affects Garmin’s costs to produce
its range of products, with lower volume products realizing the economies of scale of the high volume products. The ownership and
integration of our resources allows Garmin to optimize the design for manufacturing of our products, yielding improved cost.



Quality:Garmin’s
automation and sophisticated production processes provide in-service robustness and consistent reliability standards that enables
Garmin to maintain strict process and quality control of the products manufactured, thereby improving the overall quality of our
products. Additionally, the immediate feedback throughout the manufacturing processes is provided to the development teams providing
integrated continuous improvement throughout design and supply chain.



Time to Market:Garmin uses multi-disciplinary teams of design engineers, process engineers, and supply chain specialists to develop products,
allowing them to quickly move from concept to manufacturing. This integrated ownership provides inherent flexibility to enable
faster time to market.



Garmin’sdesign,
manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in its U.S., Taiwan, China and U.K. facilities are certified to ISO 9001,
an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmin’s automotive operations
in Taiwan and Olathe have achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. Garmin’s new China
facility in Yangzhou has received a TS16949 letter of conformance and expects to be formally certified in fourth quarter 2016.
Garmin’s Olathe and Salem aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation
industry.



Garmin International,
Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd. and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to
the ISO 14001 standard, recognizing Garmin’s systems and processes which minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment
and continually strive to improve its environmental performance.



Materials



Although most components
essential to Garmin’s business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained
by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components
that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM),
GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations.










Seasonality



Our sales are subject
to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during
the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season
and the Mother’s Day/Father’s Day/graduation buying season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing
of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the
timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest.



Backlog



Our sales are generally
of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information
is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt.



Intellectual Property



Our success and ability
to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often
relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business.  For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography
technology for use in our products from various sources.



As of January 7, 2016, Garmin’s worldwide IP portfolio includes over 950 patent and 640 trademark
registrations issued worldwide.  Generally, patents issued in the United States are effective for 20 years from the earliest
asserted filing date of the patent application. The duration of foreign patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable
local law. For the past eight years Garmin has been selected as a constituent of the Ocean Tomo® 300 Patent Index which recognizes
companies with high intellectual property value. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our
employees and their ability to continue to innovate.  Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when
appropriate to attempt to protect Garmin’s rights in its proprietary technologies.



There is no assurance
that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part.
It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others
will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation
may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity
and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity.



Regulations



The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates
is subject to change. In accordance with the United States’ Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations,
wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they
are sold. Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A
delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification
for Garmin’s existing products could adversely affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for
installation in “type certificated aircraft” are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the
European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft.










Environmental Matters



Garmin’s operations
are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances
and wastes.  Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
Capital expenditures for environmental controls are included in our normal capital budget.



Environmental regulation
of Garmin’s products is increasing.  Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and
material composition of our products and their energy efficiency.  Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers
to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance
with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental
laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial.



Garmin has implemented
multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management.  Garmin’s EMS policies set forth practices, standards,
and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmin’s Kansas headquarters facility,
Garmin’s European headquarters facility, and Garmin’s Taiwan manufacturing facility.



Regulatory and “Green
Procurement” demands from our customers are also increasing; particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly
design and manufacture initiatives.  The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established.  Garmin
is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs.



Employees



As of December 26,
2015, Garmin had 11,651 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 4,333 were in the United States, 88 were in Canada, 5,289
were in Taiwan, 1,294 were in Europe, and 647 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmin’s employees in Brazil
and Sweden, none of Garmin’s employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan
employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good.








