ITEM 1.  BUSINESS



Pinnacle West



Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries.  We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.  APS is a vertically-integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the State of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona.



Operating Revenues (in thousands):



Year Ended December 31,201120102009APS$3,237,241$3,180,807$3,149,500



Pinnacle West’s other remaining first-tier subsidiaries are SunCor and El Dorado.  Additional information related to these businesses is provided later in this report.



Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities, and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution.



BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY



APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.1 million customers.  We own or lease approximately 6,340 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long-term and short-term purchased power agreements for additional capacity, including a variety of agreements for the purchase of renewable energy.  During 2011, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted for more than 1.4% of our electric revenues.








Table of ContentsThe following map shows APS’s retail service territory, including the locations of its generating facilities and principal transmission lines.4






Energy Sources and Resource Planning



To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through purchased power agreements.  Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizona’s future energy needs.  APS’s sources of energy by fuel type during 2011 were as follows:







Generation Facilities



APS has ownership interests in or leases the coal, nuclear, gas, oil and solar generating facilities described below.  For additional information regarding these facilities, see Item 2.



Coal Fueled Generating Facilities



Four Corners— Four Corners is a 5-unit coal-fired power plant located in the northwestern corner of New Mexico.  APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3 and 15% of Units 4 and 5.  APS has a total entitlement from Four Corners of 791 MW.  The Four Corners plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the federal government.  APS purchases all of Four Corners’ coal requirements from a supplier with a long-term lease of coal reserves with the Navajo Nation.  The Four Corners coal contract runs through 2016.



On November 8, 2010, APS and SCE entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the purchase by APS of SCE’s 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners.  If consummated, APS would acquire 739 MW from SCE.  Completion of the purchase by APS, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2012, is conditioned upon the receipt of regulatory approvals from the ACC, the California Public Utilities Commission and the FERC, the execution of a new coal supply contract, expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other typical closing conditions.



APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, has negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation which would extend the term of the Four Corners leasehold











interest from 2016 to 2041. Execution by the Navajo Nation of the lease amendments is a condition to closing of the purchase by APS of SCE’s interests in Four Corners.  The execution of these amendments by the Navajo Nation requires the approval of the Navajo Nation Council, which became effective in March 2011.  The effectiveness of the amendments also requires the approval of the U.S. Department of the Interior (“DOI”), as does a related Federal rights-of-way grant, which the Four Corners participants will pursue.  A Federal environmental review is underway as part of the DOI review process.



APS has announced that, if APS’s purchase of SCE’s interests in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners is consummated, it will close Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant.  These events would change the plant’s overall generating capacity from 2,100 MW to 1,540 MW and APS’s entitlement from the plant from 791 MW to 970 MW.



Cholla— Cholla is a 4-unit coal-fired power plant located in northeastern Arizona.  APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Cholla Units 1, 2 and 3.  PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit 4, and APS operates that Unit for PacifiCorp.  APS has a total entitlement from Cholla of 647 MW.  APS purchases all of Cholla’s coal requirements from a coal supplier that mines all of the coal under long-term leases of coal reserves with the federal government and private landholders.  The Cholla coal contract runs through 2024.  APS has the ability under the contract to reduce its annual coal commitment and purchase a portion of Cholla’s coal requirements on the spot market to take advantage of competitive pricing options and to purchase coal required for increased operating capacity.  APS believes that the current fuel contracts and competitive fuel supply options ensure the continued operation of Cholla for its useful life.  In addition, APS has a long-term coal transportation contract.



Navajo Generating Station— The Navajo Plant is a 3-unit coal-fired power plant located in northern Arizona.  Salt River Project operates the plant and APS owns a 14% interest in Navajo Units 1, 2 and 3.  APS has a total entitlement from the Navajo Plant of 315 MW.  The Navajo Plant’s coal requirements are purchased from a supplier with long-term leases from the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe.  The Navajo Plant is under contract with its coal supplier through 2019.  The Navajo Plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the federal government.



These coal plants face uncertainties, including those related to existing and potential legislation and regulation, that could significantly impact their economics and operations.  See “Environmental Matters” below and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview and Capital Expenditures” in Item 7 for developments impacting these coal facilities.  See Note 11 for information regarding APS’s coal mine reclamation obligations.



Nuclear



Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station —Palo Verde is a nuclear power plant located about 50 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona.  APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3 and about 17% of Unit 2.  In addition, APS leases about 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a 29.1% combined ownership and leasehold interest in that Unit.  APS has a total entitlement from Palo Verde of 1,146 MW.



Palo Verde Leases —In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities in order to sell and lease back about 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain common facilities.  In accordance with the VIE accounting guidance, APS consolidates the lessor trust entities for financial











reporting purposes, and eliminates lease accounting for these transactions.  The agreements have terms of 29.5 years (expiring at the end of 2015) and contain options to renew the leases or to purchase the property for fair market value at the end of the lease terms.  APS must give notice to the respective lessor trusts between December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2012 if it wishes to exercise, or not exercise, either of these options.  We are analyzing these options.  See Note 20 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2 sale leaseback transactions.



Palo Verde Operating Licenses—Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an operating license from the NRC.  The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987.  The full power operating licenses, each valid for a period of 40 years, authorize APS, as operating agent for Palo Verde, to operate the three Palo Verde Units.  On December 15, 2008, APS applied for renewed operating licenses for the Palo Verde Units for a period of 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses.  On April 21, 2011, the NRC approved APS’s application for renewed operating licenses for the Palo Verde Units, extending the licenses for Units 1, 2 and 3 to June 2045, April 2046, and November 2047, respectively.



Palo Verde Fuel Cycle —The Palo Verde participants are continually identifying their future nuclear fuel resource needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs.  The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages:



·mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates;

·conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride;

·enrichment of uranium hexafluoride;

·fabrication of fuel assemblies;

·utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and

·storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel.



The Palo Verde participants have contracted for 95% of Palo Verde’s requirements for uranium concentrates through 2015, 90% of its requirements in 2016 — 2017 and 80% of its requirements in 2018.  The participants have also contracted for all of Palo Verde’s conversion services through 2015 and 95% of its requirements in 2016 — 2018, all of Palo Verde’s enrichment services through 2020 and all of Palo Verde’s fuel assembly fabrication services through 2016.



Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal —The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (“NWPA”) required the DOE to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste generated by the nation’s nuclear power plants by 1998.  The DOE’s obligations are reflected in a Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste (“Standard Contract”) with each nuclear power plant.  The DOE failed to begin accepting Palo Verde’s spent nuclear fuel by 1998, and APS (on behalf of itself and the other Palo Verde participants) filed a lawsuit for DOE’s breach of the Palo Verde Standard Contract in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims.  The Court of Federal Claims ruled in favor of APS and in October 2010 awarded $30.2 million in damages to the Palo Verde participants for costs incurred through December 2006.



The DOE had planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations by designing, licensing, constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada.  In June 2008, DOE submitted its application to the NRC to authorize construction of the Yucca Mountain repository.  In March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application that was pending before the NRC.  Several











interested parties have intervened in the NRC proceeding, and the proceeding has not been conclusively decided by the NRC or the courts.  Additionally, a number of interested parties have filed a variety of lawsuits in different jurisdictions around the country challenging the DOE’s authority to withdraw the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application.  None of these lawsuits have been conclusively decided by the courts.



On January 26, 2012, the Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear Future (the “Blue Ribbon Commission”) made recommendations on managing the back end of the nuclear fuel cycle.  The Commission was established in early 2010 at the direction of President Obama.  The President’s directive was based on his assessment that the nation’s approach to managing used nuclear fuel, primarily through the repository at Yucca Mountain, has proven to be ineffective.



The Blue Ribbon Commission’s report recommended a strategy with several key elements including: a new, consent-based approach to siting future nuclear waste management facilities; a new organization dedicated solely to implementing the waste management program; access to the funds nuclear utility ratepayers are providing for the purpose of nuclear waste management; prompt efforts to develop geologic disposal facilities, consolidated storage facilities and to prepare for the eventual large-scale transport of spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste to consolidated storage and disposal facilities.  We are monitoring this matter, but cannot predict the proposed timing for implementation of the recommended strategy.



Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site independent spent fuel storage installation (“ISFSI”) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating license period, which ends in December 2027.  Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site ISFSI to store a portion of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation, which ends in November 2047.  If uncertainties regarding the United States government’s obligation to accept and store spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate alternative storage solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI to accommodate all of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation.



In addition to the spent fuel stored at Palo Verde’s on-site ISFSI, Palo Verde also generates certain types of low level radioactive waste that are stored on-site.  Currently, the Class B and Class C waste (the higher radioactivity of the low level wastes) is stored on-site since industry access to a disposal site was eliminated several years ago.  The NRC is considering regulations that would allow the industry to eliminate much of this waste by blending it with lower level Class A waste so that it can be disposed of at a facility such as the one Palo Verde utilizes in Utah.



Nuclear Decommissioning Costs—APS currently relies on an external sinking fund mechanism to meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3.  The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APS’s ACC jurisdictional rates.  Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non-bypassable system benefits charge (paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system).  See Note 23 for additional information about APS’s nuclear decommissioning costs.



Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters— See “Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station — Nuclear Insurance” in Note 11 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.











Impact of Earthquake and Tsunami in Japan on Nuclear Energy Industry— On March 11, 2011, a 9.0 magnitude earthquake occurred off the northeastern coast of Japan.  The earthquake produced a tsunami that caused significant damage to the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station in Japan.  Following these events, the NRC Commissioners launched a two-pronged review of U.S. nuclear power plant safety.  The NRC supported the establishment of an agency task force to conduct both a near- and long-term analysis of the lessons that can be learned from the situation in Japan.  The near-term task force issued a report on July 12, 2011, and on October 3, 2011, the NRC staff issued a plan for implementing the near-term task force’s recommendations.



On October 18, 2011, the NRC Commissioners directed the NRC staff to implement, without delay, the near-term task force recommendations, subject to certain conditions.  One such condition is that the agency should strive to complete and implement lessons learned from the earthquake and tsunami in Japan within five years.  A second condition is that the staff should designate the recommendation for a rulemaking to address extended loss of offsite power to be completed within 24 to 30 months.



Until further action is taken by the NRC as a result of this event, we cannot predict any financial or operational impacts on Palo Verde or APS.



Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities



APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk, located near the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station; Ocotillo, located in Tempe; Sundance, located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson; and Yucca, located near Yuma.  Several of the units at Saguaro and Yucca run on either gas or oil.  APS has one oil only power plant, Douglas, located in the town of Douglas, Arizona.  APS owns and operates each of these plants with the exception of one oil only combustion turbine unit and one oil and gas steam unit at Yucca that are operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District.  APS has a total entitlement from these plants of 3,389 MW.  Gas for these plants is acquired through APS’s hedging program.  APS has long-term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, some of which are effective through 2024.  Fuel oil is acquired under short-term purchases delivered primarily to West Phoenix, where it is distributed to APS’s other oil power plants by truck.



Solar Facilities



To date, APS has begun operation of 50 MW of utility scale solar through its AZ Sun Program, discussed below.  These facilities are owned by APS and are located in multiple locations throughout Arizona.



Additionally, APS owns and operates more than forty small solar systems around the state.  Together they have the capacity to produce about 5 MW of renewable energy.  This fleet of solar systems includes a 3 MW facility located at the Prescott Airport, a 1 MW facility located at APS’s Saguaro power plant and 1 MW of small solar in various locations across Arizona.  APS is in the final stages of developing solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems installed as part of the Community Power Project in Flagstaff, Arizona.  The Community Power Project, approved by the ACC on April 1, 2010, is a pilot program through which APS will own, operate and receive energy from approximately 1.5 MW of solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems located within a certain test area in Flagstaff, Arizona.











Purchased Power Contracts



In addition to its own available generating capacity, APS purchases electricity under various arrangements, including long-term contracts and purchases through short-term markets to supplement its owned or leased generation and hedge its energy requirements.  A substantial portion of APS’s purchased power expense is netted against wholesale sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income.  (See Note 18.)  APS continually assesses its need for additional capacity resources to assure system reliability.



Purchased Power Capacity —APS’s purchased power capacity under long-term contracts, including its renewable energy portfolio, is summarized in the tables below.  All capacity values are based on net capacity unless otherwise noted.



TypeDates AvailableCapacity (MW)Purchase   Agreement (a)Year-round through   December 2014104Purchase   Agreement (b)Year-round through   June 14, 202060Exchange   Agreement (c)May 15 to   September 15 annually through 2020480Tolling   AgreementYear-round through   May 2017500Tolling   AgreementSummer seasons through   October 2019560Day-Ahead Call OptionAgreementSummer seasons through   September 2015500Day-Ahead CallOption AgreementSummer seasons through summer   2016150Demand ResponseAgreement (d)Summer seasons through 2024100Renewable   Energy (e)Various232





(a)The capacity under this agreement varies by month, with a maximum capacity of 104 MW.

(b)Up to 60 MW of capacity is available; however, the amount of electricity available to APS under this agreement is based in large part on customer demand and is adjusted annually.

(c)This is a seasonal capacity exchange agreement under which APS receives electricity during the summer peak season (from May 15 to September 15) and APS returns a like amount of electricity during the winter season (from October 15 to February 15).

(d)The capacity under this agreement increases in phases over the first three years to reach the 100 MW level by the summer of 2012.

(e)Renewable energy purchased power agreements are described in detail below under “Current and Future Resources — Renewable Energy Standard — Renewable Energy Portfolio.”



Current and Future Resources



Current Demand and Reserve Margin



Electric power demand is generally seasonal.  In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months.  APS’s 2011 peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on August 24, 2011 at 7,087 MW, compared to the 2010 peak of 6,936 MW recorded on July 15, 2010.  APS’s operable generating capacity, together with purchased power capacity, resulted in an actual reserve margin at the time of the 2011 peak demand of 28.7%.  The power actually available to APS from its resources fluctuates from time to time due in part to planned and unplanned plant and transmission outages.











Future Resources and Resource Plan



Under the ACC’s resource planning rule, APS will file by April 1stof each even year its resource plans for the next fifteen-year period.  The first resource plan filing will be due by April 1, 2012.  The rule requires the ACC to issue an order with its acknowledgment of APS’s resource plan within approximately ten months following its submittal.  The ACC’s acknowledgment of APS’s resource plan will consider factors such as the total cost of electric energy services, demand management, analysis of supply-side options, system reliability and risk management.



Renewable Energy Standard



In 2006, the ACC adopted the RES.  Under the RES, electric utilities that are regulated by the ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy sales from eligible renewable resources, including solar, wind, biomass, biogas and geothermal technologies.  The renewable energy requirement is 3.5% of retail electric sales in 2012 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025.  In APS’s 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement, APS committed to have 1,700 GWh of new renewable resources in service by year-end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable resource commitments.  Taken together, APS’s commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh, or approximately 10% of retail sales, by year-end 2015, which is double the existing RES target of 5% for that year.  A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small-scale renewable technologies that are located on customers’ properties).  Accordingly, under the RES, an increasing percentage of that requirement must be supplied from distributed energy resources.  This distributed energy requirement is 30% of the overall RES requirement of 3.5% in 2012.  The following table summarizes these requirement standards and their timing:



2012201520202025RES as a % of retail electric sales3.5%5%10%15%Percent of RES to be supplied from distributedenergy resources30%30%30%30%



Renewable Energy Portfolio.To date,APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 946 MW, including wind, geothermal, solar, biomass and biogas.  Of this portfolio, 423 MW are currently in operation and 523 MW are under contract for development or are under construction.  Renewable resources in operation include 55 MW of facilities owned by APS, 232 MW of long-term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 136 MW of customer-sited, third-party owned distributed energy resources.



APS’s strategy to achieve its RES requirements includes executing purchased power contracts for new facilities, ongoing development of distributed energy resources and procurement of new facilities to be owned by APS.  APS continues to develop owned solar resources through the AZ Sun Program.  The AZ Sun Program allows APS to own up to 200 MW of solar photovoltaic power plants across Arizona by investing up to $975 million through 2015.  Under this program to date, APS has executed contracts for the development of 83 MW of new solar generation, representing an investment commitment of approximately $375 million.  See Note 3 for additional details about the AZ Sun Program, including the related cost recovery.








Table of ContentsThe following table summarizes APS’s renewable energy sources currently in operation and under development.  Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the projects to the electric grid.LocationActual/TargetCommercialOperationDateTerm(Years)NetCapacityInOperation(MW AC)Net CapacityPlanned/UnderDevelopment(MW AC)APS OwnedSolar:AZ Sun Program:PalomaGila Bend, AZ201117Cotton CenterGila Bend, AZ201117Hyder Phase 1Hyder, AZ201111Hyder Phase 2Hyder, AZ20125Chino ValleyChino Valley, AZ201219Luke AFBGlendale, AZ2013 (a)14Subtotal AZ Sun Program (b)5033Multiple FacilitiesAZVarious5Total APS Owned5533Purchased Power AgreementsSolar:Solana (c)Gila Bend, AZ201330250RE AjoAjo, AZ2011255Sun E AZ 1Prescott, AZ20113010Solar 1 (d)Tonopah, AZ20123015Solar 2 (d)Tonopah, AZ20133015Solar 3 (d)Maricopa County, AZ20133015Wind:Aragonne MesaSanta Rosa, NM20062090High LonesomeMountainair, NM200930100Perrin Ranch WindWilliams, AZ20122599Geothermal:Salton SeaImperial County, CA20062310Biomass:SnowflakeSnowflake, AZ20081514Biogas:Glendale LandfillGlendale, AZ2010203Landfill 1 (d)Surprise, AZ2012203Total Purchased Power   Agreements232397Distributed EnergySolar(e)APS Owned (f)AZvarious1Third-party Owned (g)AZvarious12158Agreement 1Bagdad, AZ20112515Agreement 2 (h)AZ2012-201420-2534Total Distributed Energy13693Total Renewable Portfolio42352312








(a)Subject to approval by the United States Department of Defense.

(b)Under the AZ Sun Program, 117 MW remains to be contracted.

(c)Represents contracted capacity.

(d)Details of these agreements have not yet been publicly announced.

(e)Distributed generation is produced in DC and is converted to AC for reporting purposes.

(f)Reflects Community Power Project.

(g)Achieved through incentive-based programs.  Includes resources with production-based incentives that have terms of 10-20 years.

(h)Agreement ramps up to 40 MW over three years.



Demand Side Management



In recent years, Arizona regulators have placed an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy.  In December 2009, the ACC initiated its Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020.  This standard was adopted and became effective on January 1, 2011.  This ambitious standard will likely impact Arizona’s future energy resource needs.  (See Note 3 for energy efficiency and other demand side management obligations resulting from the settlement agreement related to APS’s 2008 retail rate case.)



Economic Stimulus Projects



Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), the Federal government made a number of programs available for utilities to develop renewable resources, improve reliability and create jobs by using economic stimulus funding.  Certain programs are also available through the State of Arizona.



APS has two active awards with the DOE.  The first is a $3 million high penetration photovoltaic generation study related to the Community Power Project in Flagstaff, Arizona.  Second, APS is a sub-recipient under an approximately $4 million ARRA award received through the State of Arizona for the implementation of various distributed energy and energy efficiency programs in Arizona.  DOE funding for these awards will continue to be contingent upon APS meeting certain project milestones, including DOE-established budget parameters.



Competitive Environment and Regulatory Oversight



Retail



The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates and its issuance of securities.  The ACC must also approve any significant transfer or encumbrance of APS’s property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between Pinnacle West, APS and their respective affiliates.



APS is subject to varying degrees of competition from other investor-owned electric and gas utilities in Arizona (such as Southwest Gas Corporation), as well as cooperatives, municipalities,electrical districts and similar types of governmental or non-profit organizations.  In addition, some











customers, particularly industrial and large commercial customers, may own and operate generation facilities to meet some or all of their own energy requirements.  This practice is becoming more popular with customers installing or having installed products such as roof top solar panels to meet or supplement their energy needs.



In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in Arizona.  As a result, as of January 1, 2001, all of APS’s retail customers were eligible to choose alternate energy suppliers.  However, there are currently no active retail competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APS’s customers.  In 2000, the Arizona Superior Court found that the rules were in part unconstitutional and in other respects unlawful, the latter finding being primarily on procedural grounds, and invalidated all ACC orders authorizing competitive electric services providers to operate in Arizona.  In 2004, the Arizona Court of Appeals invalidated some, but not all of the rules and upheld the invalidation of the orders authorizing competitive electric service providers.  In 2005, the Arizona Supreme Court declined to review the Court of Appeals decision.



To date, the ACC has taken no further or substantive action on either the rules or the prior orders authorizing competitive electric service providers in response to the final Court of Appeals decision.  In 2008, the ACC directed the ACC staff to investigate whether such retail competition was in the public interest and what legal impediments remain to competition in light of the Court of Appeals decision referenced above.  The ACC staff’s report on the results of its investigation was issued on August 12, 2010.  The report stated that additional analysis, discussion and study of all aspects of the issue are required in order to perform a proper evaluation.  While the report did not make any specific recommendations other than to conduct more workshops, the report did state that the current retail electric competition rules are incomplete and in need of modification.



On April 14, 2010, the ACC issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and operate solar facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not “public service corporations” under the Arizona Constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the ACC.  A second matter is pending with the ACC to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers who serve a broader customer base under the same business model.  Use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some level of competition.  APS cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional electric service providers will enter or re-enter APS’s service territory.



Wholesale



The FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services.  (See Note 3 for information regarding APS’s transmission rates.)  During 2011, approximately 4.8% of APS’s electric operating revenues resulted from such sales and services.  APS’s wholesale activity primarily consists of managing fuel and purchased power supplies to serve retail customer energy requirements.  APS also sells, in the wholesale market, its generation output that is not needed for APS’s Native Load and, in doing so, competes with other utilities, power marketers and independent power producers.  Additionally, subject to specified parameters, APS hedges both electricity and fuels.  The majority of these activities are undertaken to mitigate risk in APS’s portfolio.











Environmental Matters



Climate Change



Legislative Initiatives.In the past several years, the United States Congress has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions.  There have been no attempts by the 112thCongress to pass legislation that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions.With Congress’s focus on the economy, it is unclear when it will again consider a climate change bill.  In the event climate change legislation is ultimately passed, the actual economic and operational impact of such legislation on APS depends on a variety of factors, none of which can be fully known until a law is enacted and the specifics of the resulting program are established.  These factors include the terms of the legislation with regard to allowed emissions; whether any permitted emissions allowances will be allocated to source operators free of cost or auctioned; the cost to reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace; and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance.



In addition to federal legislative initiatives, state-specific initiatives may also impact our business.  While Arizona has no pending legislation and no proposed agency rule regulating greenhouse gases in Arizona, the California legislature enacted AB 32 and SB 1368 in 2006 to address greenhouse gas emissions.  In October 2011, the California Air Resources Board approved final regulations that will establish a state-wide cap on greenhouse gas emissions beginning on January 1, 2013 and will establish a greenhouse gas allowance trading program under that cap.  The first phase of the program, which will apply to, among other entities, electric utilities and importers of electricity, is scheduled to commence on January 1, 2013.  In addition, in 2010 the New Mexico Environmental Improvement Board enacted a greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program, which was repealed on February 6, 2012, and an emissions cap, which is scheduled to become effective in 2013 but is undergoing further review.



We are monitoring Arizona regulatory activities and other state legislative developments to understand the extent to which they may affect our business, including our sales into the impacted states or the ability of our out-of-state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal-fired power plants.  In particular, SCE, a participant in Four Corners, has indicated that SB 1368 may prohibit it from making emission control expenditures at the plant.  (See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Coal Fueled Generating Facilities — Four Corners” above for details of the pending sale of SCE’s interest in Four Corners to APS.)



Regulatory Initiatives.In December 2009, the EPA determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and welfare.  This determination was made in response to a 2007 United States Supreme Court ruling that greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Act’s broad definition of “air pollutant” and, as a result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act.  As a result of this “endangerment finding,” the EPA determined that the Clean Air Act required new regulatory requirements for new and modified major greenhouse gas emitting sources, including power plants.  On June 3, 2010, the EPA issued a rule under the Clean Air Act, known as the “tailoring rule,” establishing new greenhouse gas emissions thresholds that determine when sources, including power plants, must obtain air operating permits or New Source Review permits.  “New Source Review” is a pre-construction permitting program under the Clean Air Act that requires analysis of pollution controls prior to building a new stationary source or making major modifications to an existing stationary source.  The tailoring rule became effective on August 2, 2010 and it became applicable to power plants on January 2, 2011. Several groups have filed lawsuits challenging the EPA’s endangerment finding and the tailoring rule, and that litigation











continues.  At the present time, we cannot predict whether the parties challenging the endangerment finding or the tailoring rule will be successful.



APS does not expect the tailoring rule to have a significant impact on its current operations.  The rule will require APS to consider the impact of greenhouse gas emissions as part of its traditional New Source Review analysis for new sources and major modifications to existing plants.



On December 30, 2010, pursuant to its authority under the Clean Air Act, the EPA finalized a greenhouse gas Federal Implementation Plan (“FIP”) for Arizona relating to pre-construction permits for construction of new sources or major modifications of existing sources.  As a result of this action, effective January 2, 2011, the EPA assumed responsibility for acting on permit applications for only the greenhouse gas portion of such pre-construction permits.  State permitting authorities will continue to retain responsibility for the remaining parts of pre-construction permits that are unrelated to emissions of greenhouse gasses.  To the extent Arizona seeks and receives from the EPA a delegation of permitting authority for greenhouse gas emissions, the state will assume responsibility for issuing both the greenhouse gas and non-greenhouse gas portions of pre-construction permits.  The greenhouse gas FIP will remain in place until such time as the EPA approves a State Implementation Plan (“SIP”) that applies pre-construction permit requirements to greenhouse gas-emitting stationary sources in Arizona.  APS does not expect the greenhouse gas FIP to have a significant impact on its current operations.



Pursuant to its authority under the Clean Air Act, the EPA has also drafted proposed New Source Performance Standards (“NSPS”) for greenhouse gas emissions from certain new and modified electric generating units.  The proposed standards are currently under review at the White House Office of Management and Budget, and a final rule is expected in 2012.  In addition, it is possible that the EPA will propose standards setting federal emission guidelines for existing electric generating facilities in 2012.  The NSPS for greenhouse gas emissions are expected to apply to Four Corners, Cholla, and the Navajo Plant.  We cannot currently predict the impact of these anticipated rules on APS’s operations.



At the present time, we cannot predict what other rules or regulations may ultimately result from the EPA’s endangerment finding and what impact other potential rules or regulations will have on APS’s operations.  If any emission reduction legislation or additional regulations are enacted, we will assess our compliance alternatives, which may include replacement of existing equipment, installation of additional pollution control equipment, purchase of allowances, retirement or suspension of operations at certain coal-fired facilities, or other actions.  Although associated capital expenditures or operating costs resulting from greenhouse gas emission regulations or legislation could be material, we believe that we would be able to recover the costs of these environmental compliance initiatives through our rates.



Company Response to Climate Change Initiatives.We have undertaken a number of initiatives to address emission concerns, including renewable energy procurement and development, promotion of programs and rates that promote energy conservation, renewable energy use and energy efficiency.  (See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Current and Future Resources” above for details of these plans and initiatives.)  APS currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources, including wind, geothermal, solar, and biomass, and we are focused on increasing the percentage of our energy that is produced by renewable resources.











Pinnacle West prepares an annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com).  The report provides information related to the Company and its approach to sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance.  The information on Pinnacle West’s website, including the Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into this report.



Climate Change Lawsuit.In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of Kivalina, Alaska filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Northern District of California against nine oil companies, fourteen power companies (including Pinnacle West), and a coal company, alleging that the defendants’ emissions of carbon dioxide contribute to global warming and constitute a public and private nuisance under both federal and state law.  The plaintiffs also allege that the effects of global warming will require the relocation of the village, and they are seeking an unspecified amount of monetary damages.  In June 2008, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the action, which were granted.  The plaintiffs filed an appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2009, and Pinnacle West filed its reply on June 30, 2010.  On January 24, 2011, the defendants filed a motion, which was later granted, to defer calendaring of oral argument until after the United States Supreme Court ruled in a similar nuisance lawsuit,American Electric Power Co., Inc. v. Connecticut.



On June 20, 2011, the Supreme Court issued its opinion inConnecticutholding, among other things, that the Clean Air Act and the EPA actions authorized by the act, which are aimed at controlling greenhouse gas emissions, displace any federal common law right to seek abatement of greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuel-fired power plants.  However, the Court left open the issue of whether such claims may be available under state law.  Oral argument in theKivalinacase was heard on November 28, 2011; the parties await the court’s decision.  We believe the action inKivalinais without merit and will continue to defend against both the federal and state claims.



EPA Environmental Regulation



Regional Haze Rules.Over a decade ago, the EPA announced regional haze rules to reduce visibility impairment in national parks and wilderness areas.  The rules require states (or, for sources located on tribal land, the EPA) to determine what pollution control technologies constitute the “best available retrofit technology” (“BART”) for certain older major stationary sources.  The EPA subsequently issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule, which provides guidelines on how to perform a BART analysis.



The Four Corners and Navajo Plant participants’ obligations to comply with the EPA’s final BART determinations (and Cholla’s obligations to comply with ADEQ’s determinations), coupled with the financial impact of potential future climate change legislation, other environmental regulations, and other business considerations, could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of individual participants to continue their participation in these plants.



Cholla.In 2007, ADEQ required APS to perform a BART analysis for Cholla pursuant to the Clean Air Visibility Rule.  APS completed the BART analysis for Cholla and submitted its BART recommendations to ADEQ on February 4, 2008.  The recommendations include the installation of certain pollution control equipment that APS believes constitutes BART. ADEQ reviewed APS’s recommendations and submitted its proposed BART SIP for Cholla and other sources within the state on March 2, 2011.  The EPA may accept the proposed SIP or reject part or all of it if the EPA determines the SIP is inadequate.  If the EPA rejects the proposed SIP provisions applicable to Cholla,











it could issue a FIP for the plant that includes more stringent pollution control technology requirements and emission limits.



On December 2, 2011, the EPA provided notice of a proposed consent decree to address a lawsuit filed by a number of environmental organizations, which alleged that the EPA failed to promulgate FIPs for states that have not yet submitted all or part of the required BART SIPs.  The proposed consent decree establishes proposed and final promulgation deadlines (May 15, 2012 and November 15, 2012, respectively) for the EPA to promulgate regional haze FIPs or approve regional haze SIPs for 34 states, including Arizona.  On January 3, 2012, APS submitted comments to the EPA regarding the proposed consent decree.



Once APS receives a final determination as to what constitutes BART for Cholla, we will have up to five years to complete the installation of the equipment and to achieve the BART emission limits.  However, in order to coordinate with the plant’s other scheduled activities, APS is currently implementing portions of its recommended plan for Cholla on a voluntary basis.  Costs related to the implementation of these portions of our recommended plan are included in our environmental expenditure estimates (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7).



Four Corners and the Navajo Plant.The EPA previously requested that APS, as the operating agent for Four Corners, and SRP, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, perform a BART analysis for Four Corners and the Navajo Plant, respectively.  APS and SRP each submitted an analysis to the EPA concluding that certain combustion control equipment constitutes BART for these plants.  Based on the analyses and comments received through EPA’s rulemaking process, the EPA will determine what it believes constitutes BART for each plant.



On October 6, 2010, the EPA issued its proposed BART determination for Four Corners.  The proposed rule would require the installation of post-combustion controls on each of Units 1-5 at Four Corners to reduce nitrogen oxides (“NOx”) emissions. Current estimates indicate that APS’s total costs for these controls could be up to approximately $400 million for Four Corners.  If APS’s purchase of SCE’s interest in Units 4 and 5 is consummated and Units 1-3 are closed, APS’s total costs for these controls would be approximately $300 million.  (See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Coal Fueled Generating Facilities — Four Corners” for details of this proposed transaction.)  The EPA also indicated in the proposal that it may require the installation of electrostatic precipitators or baghouses on Units 1, 2, and 3 to reduce particulate matter emissions. APS estimates that its total costs for such particulate removal equipment is approximately $220 million, which may also be required under the mercury rules. (See “Environmental Matters — Mercury and Other Hazardous Air Pollutants” below for additional information on these rules.)  The EPA proposed a 10% stack opacity limitation for all five units and a 20% opacity limitation on certain fugitive dust emissions, although the proposed fugitive dust provision is unrelated to BART.



On November 24, 2010, APS submitted a letter to the EPA proposing an alternative to the EPA’s October BART proposal.  Specifically, APS proposed to close Four Corners Units 1, 2, and 3 by 2014 and to install post-combustion pollution controls for NOx on Units 4 and 5 by the end of 2018, provided that the EPA agrees to a contemporaneous resolution of Four Corners’ obligations or liability, if any, under the regional haze and reasonably attributable visibility impairment programs, the New Source Review program, and NSPS programs of the Clean Air Act.











On February 10, 2011, the EPA signed a Supplemental Notice Requesting Comment, related to the BART rulemaking for Four Corners.  In the Supplemental Notice, the EPA proposed to find that a different alternative emission control strategy, based upon APS’s November 2010 proposal, would achieve more progress than the EPA’s October 2010 BART proposal.  The Supplemental Notice proposes that Units 1, 2, and 3 would close by 2014, post-combustion pollution controls for NOx would be installed on Units 4 and 5 by July 31, 2018, and the NOx emission limitation for Units 4 and 5 would be 0.098 lbs/MMBtu, rather than the 0.11 lbs/MMBtu proposed by the EPA in October 2010.  APS provided comments to the EPA on both proposals and continues to evaluate them.



The EPA has not yet issued a proposed rule for the Navajo Plant.  SRP’s recommended plan for the Navajo Plant includes the installation of combustion control equipment, with an estimated cost to APS of approximately $6 million based on APS’s Navajo Plant ownership interest.  If the EPA determines that post-combustion controls are required, APS’s total costs could be up to approximately $93 million for the Navajo Plant. The Four Corners and the Navajo Plant participants will have up to five years after the EPA issues its final determinations to achieve compliance with their respective BART requirements.



In order to coordinate with each plant’s other scheduled activities, the plants are currently implementing portions of their recommended plans described above on a voluntary basis.  APS’s share of the costs related to the implementation of these portions of the recommended plans are included in our environmental expenditure estimates (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7).



Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants.On December 16, 2011, the EPA issued the final Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (“MATS”), which established maximum achievable control technology (“MACT”) standards to regulate emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from fossil-fired power plants.  APS will have three (potentially four if the permitting authority grants a one-year extension) years after the effective date of the rule to achieve compliance.



The MATS will require APS to install additional pollution control equipment.  APS has installed, and continues to install, certain of the equipment necessary to meet the anticipated standards.  APS estimates that the cost for equipment necessary to meet these standards is approximately $220 million for Four Corners Units 1-3 and $89 million for Cholla Units 1-3.  The estimated costs for Four Corners Units 1-3 are not included in our current environmental expenditure estimates since our estimates assume the consummation of APS’s purchase of SCE’s interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 and the subsequent shut down of Units 1-3.  Cholla’s estimated costs for the next three years are included in our environmental expenditure estimates.  (See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7 for details of our capital expenditure estimates).  SRP, the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, is still evaluating compliance options under the MATS.  If it is determined that the installation of polishing baghouses is required, APS’s total costs could be up to approximately $92 million for the Navajo Plant.



Cooling Water Intake Structures.The EPA issued its proposed cooling water intake structures rule on April 20, 2011, which provides national standards applicable to certain cooling water intake structures at existing power plants and other facilities pursuant to Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act.  The proposed standards are intended to protect fish and other aquatic organisms by minimizing impingement mortality (the capture of aquatic wildlife on intake structures or against screens) and entrainment mortality (the capture of fish or shellfish in water flow entering and passing through intake structures).  To minimize impingement mortality, the proposed rule would require











facilities, such as Four Corners and the Navajo Plant, to either demonstrate that impingement mortality at its cooling water intakes does not exceed a specified rate or reduce the flow at those structures to less than a specified velocity, and to take certain protective measures with respect to impinged fish.  To minimize entrainment mortality, the proposed rule would also require these facilities to conduct a “structured site-specific analysis” to determine what site-specific controls, if any, should be required.  Additional studies and a peer review process will also be required at these facilities.



As proposed, existing facilities subject to the rule would have to comply with the impingement mortality requirements as soon as possible, but in no event later than eight years after the effective date of the rule, and would have to comply with the entrainment requirements as soon as possible under a schedule of compliance established by the permitting authority.  APS is performing analyses to determine the costs of compliance with the proposed rule.  APS filed comments on the proposed rule on July 21, 2011.



Coal Combustion Waste.On June 21, 2010, the EPA released its proposed regulations governing the handling and disposal of coal combustion residuals (“CCRs”), such as fly ash and bottom ash.  APS currently disposes of CCRs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners, and also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete production.  The EPA proposes regulating CCRs as either non-hazardous waste or hazardous waste and requested comments on three different alternatives. The hazardous waste proposal would phase out the use of ash ponds for disposal of CCRs. The other two proposals would regulate CCRs as non-hazardous waste and impose performance standards for ash disposal.  One of these proposals would require retrofitting or closure of currently unlined ash ponds, while the other proposal would not require the installation of liners or pond closures.  The EPA has not yet indicated a preference for any of the alternatives.



APS filed comments on the proposed rule during the public comment period, which ended on November 19, 2010.  Although we do not know when the EPA will issue a final rule or by when compliance will ultimately be required, it is expected that the agency may take final action on the rule in 2012.  We cannot currently predict the outcome of the EPA’s actions or whether such actions will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.



Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards.In March 2008, the EPA adopted new, more stringent eight-hour ozone standards, known as national ambient air quality standards (“NAAQS”).  In January 2010, the EPA proposed to adopt even more stringent eight-hour ozone NAAQS.  However, on September 2, 2011, President Obama decided to withdraw the EPA’s revised ozone standards until at least 2013 when the EPA would be required to review them as part of its five-year NAAQS review process.  As ozone standards become more stringent, our fossil generation units may come under increasing pressure to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds and/or to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions.  At this time, APS is unable to predict what impact the adoption of these standards may have on its financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.



New Source Review.On April 6, 2009, APS received a request from the EPA under Section 114 of the Clean Air Act seeking detailed information regarding projects at and operations of Four Corners.  This request is part of an enforcement initiative that the EPA has undertaken under the Clean Air Act.  The EPA has taken the position that many utilities have made certain physical or operational changes at their plants that should have triggered additional regulatory requirements under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act.  Other electric utilities have received and responded to similar Section 114 requests, and several of them have been the subject of notices of violation and











lawsuits by the EPA.  APS responded to the EPA’s request in August 2009 and is currently unable to predict the timing or content of the EPA’s response, if any, or any resulting actions.



On October 4, 2011, Earthjustice, on behalf of several environmental organizations, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico against APS and the other Four Corners participants alleging violations of the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) provisions of the Clean Air Act.  Subsequent to filing its original Complaint, on January 6, 2012, Earthjustice filed a First Amended Complaint adding claims for violations of the Clean Air Act’s NSPS program.  Among other things, the plaintiffs seek to have the court enjoin operations at Four Corners until APS applies for and obtains any required PSD permits and complies with the NSPS.  The plaintiffs further request the court to order the payment of civil penalties, including a beneficial mitigation project.  APS believes the claims in this matter are without merit and will vigorously defend against them.



Endangered Species Act.On January 30, 2011, the Center for Biological Diversity, Dine Citizens Against Ruining Our Environment, and San Juan Citizens Alliance filed a lawsuit against the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (“OSM”) and the DOI, alleging that OSM failed to engage in mandatory Endangered Species Act (“ESA”) consultation with the Fish and Wildlife Service prior to authorizing the renewal of an operating permit for the mine that serves Four Corners.  The lawsuit alleges that activities at the mine, including mining and the disposal of coal combustion residue, will adversely affect several endangered species and their critical habitats.  The lawsuit requests the court to vacate and remand the mining permit and enjoin all activities carried out under the permit until OSM has complied with the ESA.  Although we are not a party to the lawsuit, we continue to evaluate the lawsuit to determine its potential impact on plant operations.



Superfund.The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“Superfund”) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the soil, water or air.  Those who generated, transported or disposed of hazardous substances at a contaminated site are among those who are PRPs.  PRPs may be strictly, and often are jointly and severally, liable for clean-up.  On September 3, 2003, the EPA advised APS that the EPA considers APS to be a PRP in the Motorola 52ndStreet Superfund Site, Operable Unit 3 (“OU3”) in Phoenix, Arizona.  APS has facilities that are within this Superfund site.  APS and Pinnacle West have agreed with the EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within OU3.  In addition, on September 23, 2009, APS agreed with the EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily assist with the funding and management of the site-wide groundwater remedial investigation and feasibility study work plan.  APS estimates that its costs related to this investigation and study will be approximately $1 million.  We anticipate incurring additional expenditures in the future, but because the overall investigation is not complete and ultimate remediation requirements are not yet finalized, at the present time we cannot accurately estimate our total expenditures.



Manufactured Gas PlantSites.Certain properties which APS now owns or which were previously owned by it or its corporate predecessors were at one time sites of, or sites associated with, manufactured gas plants.  APS is taking action to voluntarily remediate these sites.  APS does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.











Navajo Nation Environmental Issues



Four Corners and the Navajo Plant are located on the Navajo Reservation and are held under easements granted by the federal government as well as leases from the Navajo Nation.  See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Coal Fueled Generating Facilities” above for additional information regarding these plants.



In July 1995, the Navajo Nation enacted the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, the Navajo Nation Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Navajo Nation Pesticide Act (collectively, the “Navajo Acts”).  The Navajo Acts purport to give the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection Agency authority to promulgate regulations covering air quality, drinking water, and pesticide activities, including those activities that occur at Four Corners and the Navajo Plant.  On October 17, 1995, the Four Corners participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a lawsuit in the District Court of the Navajo Nation, Window Rock District, challenging the applicability of the Navajo Acts as to Four Corners and the Navajo Plant.  The Court has stayed these proceedings pursuant to a request by the parties, and the parties are seeking to negotiate a settlement.



In April 2000, the Navajo Nation Council approved operating permit regulations under the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act.  APS believes the Navajo Nation exceeded its authority when it adopted the operating permit regulations.  On July 12, 2000, the Four Corners participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a petition with the Navajo Supreme Court for review of these regulations.  Those proceedings have been stayed, pending the settlement negotiations mentioned above.  APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.



On May 18, 2005, APS, Salt River Project, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, and the Navajo Nation executed a Voluntary Compliance Agreement to resolve their disputes regarding the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act.  As a result of this agreement, APS sought, and the courts granted, dismissal of the pending litigation in the Navajo Nation Supreme Court and the Navajo Nation District Court, to the extent the claims relate to the Clean Air Act.  The agreement does not address or resolve any dispute relating to other Navajo Acts.  APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.



Water Supply



Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants.  At the present time, APS has adequate water to meet its needs.  However, the Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area.  APS is continuing to work with area stakeholders to implement agreements to minimize the effect, if any, on future operations of the plant.  The effect of the drought cannot be fully assessed at this time, and APS cannot predict the ultimate outcome, if any, of the drought or whether the drought will adversely affect the amount of power available, or the price thereof, from Four Corners.



Conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the southwestern United States have resulted in numerous court actions, which, in addition to future supply conditions, have the potential to impact APS operations.



San Juan River Adjudication.Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APS’s operations have been the subject of inquiries, claims, and legal proceedings, which will require











a number of years to resolve.  APS is one of a number of parties in a proceeding, filed March 13, 1975, before the Eleventh Judicial District Court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a stream system from which water for Four Corners is derived.  An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985, however, provides that if Four Corners loses a portion of its rights in the adjudication, the Navajo Nation will provide, for an agreed upon cost, sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss.



Gila River Adjudication.



Little Colorado River Adjudication.APS has also filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River Watershed in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County, Arizona, Superior Court, which was originally filed on September 5, 1985.  APS’s groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the geographic area subject to the adjudication and, therefore, is potentially at issue in the case.  APS’s claims dispute the court’s jurisdiction over its groundwater rights.  Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights.  Other claims have been identified as ready for litigation in motions filed with the court.  No trial date concerning APS’s water rights claims has been set in this matter.



A number of parties, including APS, the Navajo Nation, the Hopi Tribe, and other claimants in the Little Colorado River Adjudication have been engaged in settlement negotiations to resolve competing water claims.  On June 3, 2011, counsel for all the parties to the settlement discussions, including APS, signed, on behalf of their respective clients, a document expressing their agreement to recommend that the settlement be approved by their respective clients.  Negotiations among the parties continue.  If ultimately approved by the parties, the United States Congress, and the Arizona legislature, APS believes this settlement would be beneficial in protecting APS’s interest through its resolution of any and all claims that the Navajo Nation and the Hopi Tribe may have to the Little Colorado River system and source in Arizona.



Although the above matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS does not expect that the described litigation or settlement will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.











BUSINESS OF OTHER SUBSIDIARIES



The operations of our other first-tier subsidiaries (described below) are not expected to contribute in any material way to our future financial performance nor will they require any material amounts of capital over the next three years.  We continue to focus on our core utility business and streamlining the Company.  In August 2011, we sold our competitive energy services subsidiary, APSES, for an after tax gain of $10 million.



El Dorado



El Dorado owns minority interests in several energy-related investments and Arizona community-based ventures.  El Dorado’s short-term goal is to prudently realize the value of its existing investments.  As of December 31, 2011, El Dorado had total assets of $20 million.



SunCor



SunCor was a developer of residential, commercial and industrial real estate projects in Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah.  Due to the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, in 2009 SunCor undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations, master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate its outstanding debt.  As of December 31, 2011, SunCor had no existing bank debt and had total assets remaining on its books of $9 million, consisting of $7 million of intercompany receivables and $2 million of other assets.  On February 24, 2012, SunCor filed for protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Arizona to complete an orderly liquidation of its business.  We do not expect SunCor’s bankruptcy to have a material impact on Pinnacle West’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.



Financial Summary



201120102009(dollars in millions)Revenues (a)$2$102$158Net loss attributable tocommon shareholders (b)$(2)$(9)$(279)Total assets at December 31$9$16$166





(a)All reported as discontinued operations on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  (See Note 21.)

(b)The 2009 amount includes a $266 million (pre-tax) real estate impairment charge.



OTHER INFORMATION



Pinnacle West, APS and Pinnacle West’s other first-tier subsidiaries are all incorporated in the State of Arizona.  Additional information for each of these companies is provided below:











Principal Executive OfficeAddressYear ofIncorporationApproximateNumber ofEmployees atDecember 31, 2011Pinnacle   West400   North Fifth StreetPhoenix,   AZ 85004198580APS400   North Fifth StreetP.O. Box   53999Phoenix,   AZ 85072-399919206,580SunCor80 East   Rio Salado ParkwaySuite 410Tempe,   AZ 8528119653El   Dorado400   North Fifth StreetPhoenix,   AZ 850041983—Total6,663



The APS number includes employees at jointly-owned generating facilities (approximately 3,050 employees) for which APS serves as the generating facility manager.  Approximately 1,930 APS employees are union employees.  APS entered into a new three-year collective bargaining agreement with union employees in the fossil generation, energy delivery and customer service business areas that expires in April 2014.  The agreement with union employees serving as Palo Verde security officers expires in 2013.



WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION



We use our websitewww.pinnaclewest.comas a channel of distribution for material Company information.  The following filings are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”): Annual Reports on Form 10-K, definitive proxy statements for our annual shareholder meetings, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports.  Our board and committee charters, Code of Ethics for Financial Executives, Ethics Policy and Standards of Business Practices and other corporate governance information is also available on the Pinnacle West website.  Pinnacle West will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics for Financial Executives and Ethics Policy and Standards of Business Practices, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, on its website.  The information on Pinnacle West’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.



You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, by contacting Pinnacle West at the following address: Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, Office of the Secretary, Station 9068, P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 (telephone 602-250-3252).











