ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Pinnacle West

Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries. We derive
substantially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS. APS is a
vertically-integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to
most of the State of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix
metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona.

Year Ended December 31,Operating Revenues (in thousands):201020092008APS$3,180,807$3,149,500$3,133,496Percentage of Pinnacle West Consolidated97%99%97%

Pinnacle West’s other first-tier subsidiaries are SunCor, APSES and El Dorado. Additional
information related to these businesses is provided later in this report.

Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of
traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to
Native Load customers) and related activities, and includes electricity generation, transmission
and distribution. In 2009 our real-estate subsidiary, SunCor, began disposing of its homebuilding
operations, master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order
to reduce its outstanding debt (see Note 23). All of SunCor’s operations are reflected as
discontinued operations. As a result, the real estate segment is no longer a reportable segment.
See Note 17 for financial information of our business segments.

BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY

APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.1 million customers. We own or
lease more than 6,290 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long-term and
short-term purchased power agreements for additional capacity, including a variety of agreements
for the purchase of renewable energy. During 2010, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted
for more than 1.2% of our electric revenues.





The following map shows APS’s retail service territory, including the locations of its
generating facilities and principal transmission lines.4




Energy Sources and Resource Planning

To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through
purchased power agreements. Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizona’s
future energy needs. APS’s sources of energy by fuel type during 2010 were as follows:



Generation Facilities

APS has ownership interests in or leases the coal, nuclear, gas, oil and solar
generating facilities described below. For additional information regarding these facilities, see
Item 2.

Coal Fueled Generating Facilities

Four Corners— Four Corners is a 5-unit coal-fired power plant located in the northwestern
corner of New Mexico. APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3 and
15% of Units 4 and 5. APS has a total entitlement from Four Corners of 791 MW. The Four Corners
plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the federal
government. APS purchases all of Four Corners’ coal requirements from a supplier with a long-term
lease of coal reserves with the Navajo Nation. The Four Corners coal contract runs through 2016.

On November 8, 2010, APS and Southern California Edison (“SCE”) entered into an asset purchase
agreement providing for the purchase by APS of SCE’s 48% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four
Corners. If consummated, APS would acquire 739 MW from SCE unless any of the other owners of
interests in Units 4 and 5 exercise their rights of first refusal prior to March 8, 2011, in which
case APS would not be able to purchase SCE’s entire share of the Units. Completion of the purchase
by APS, which is expected to occur in the second half of 2012, is conditioned upon the receipt of
regulatory approvals from the ACC, the California Public Utilities Commission and the FERC, the
execution of a new coal supply contract for a lease renewal period described below, expiration of
the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other typical closing
conditions.





APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, has negotiated amendments to an existing
facility lease with the Navajo Nation which would extend the Four Corners leasehold interest to
2041. Execution by the Navajo Nation of the lease amendments is a condition to closing of the
purchase by APS of SCE’s interests in Four Corners. The execution of these amendments by the Navajo
Nation requires the approval of the Navajo Nation Council, which
occurred on February 15, 2011 and is awaiting final signature by the
Nation’s President. The effectiveness of the amendments also
requires the approval of the U.S. Department of the Interior (“DOI”), as does a related Federal
rights-of-way grant which the Four Corners participants will pursue. A Federal environmental
review will be conducted as part of the DOI review process.

APS has announced that, if APS’s purchase of SCE’s interests in Units 4 and 5 at Four Corners
is consummated, it will close Units 1, 2 and 3 at the plant. These events will change the plant’s
overall generating capacity from 2,100 MW to 1,540 MW and APS’s entitlement from the plant from 791
MW to 970 MW.

Cholla— Cholla is a 4-unit coal-fired power plant located in northeastern Arizona. APS
operates the plant and owns 100% of Cholla Units 1, 2 and 3. PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit 4, and
APS operates that Unit for PacifiCorp. APS has a total entitlement from Cholla of 647 MW. APS
purchases all of Cholla’s coal requirements from a coal supplier that mines all of the coal under
long-term leases of coal reserves with the federal government and private landholders. The Cholla
coal contract runs through 2024. APS has the ability under the contract to reduce its annual coal
commitment and purchase a portion of Cholla’s coal requirements on the spot market to take
advantage of competitive pricing options and to purchase coal required for increased operating
capacity. APS believes that the current fuel contracts and competitive fuel supply options ensure
the continued operation of Cholla for its useful life. In addition, APS has a long-term coal
transportation contract.

Navajo Generating Station— The Navajo Plant is a 3-unit coal-fired power plant located in
northern Arizona. Salt River Project operates the plant and APS owns a 14% interest in Navajo
Units 1, 2 and 3. APS has a total entitlement from the Navajo Plant of 315 MW. The Navajo Plant’s
coal requirements are purchased from a supplier with long-term leases from the Navajo Nation and
the Hopi Tribe. The Navajo Plant is under contract with its coal supplier through 2011, with
options to extend through 2019. The Navajo Plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also
subject to an easement from the federal government.

These coal plants face uncertainties related to existing and potential legislation and
regulation that could significantly impact their economics and operations. See “Environmental
Matters” below and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Overview and Capital Expenditures” in Item 7 for environmental and climate change
developments and lease renewal negotiations with the Navajo Nation impacting these coal facilities.
See Note 11 for information regarding APS’s coal mine reclamation obligations.

Nuclear

Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station —Palo Verde is a nuclear power plant located about 50
miles west of Phoenix, Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3
and about 17% of Unit 2. In addition, APS leases about 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a 29.1%
combined interest in that Unit. APS has a total entitlement from Palo Verde of 1,146 MW.





Palo Verde Leases —In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust
entities in order to sell and lease back about 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain
common facilities. Prior to 2010, APS accounted for these arrangements as operating leases. Due
to amended VIE accounting guidance, in 2010 APS began consolidating the lessor trust entities, and
eliminated lease accounting for these transactions. The agreements have terms of 29.5 years and
contain options to renew the leases or to purchase the property for fair market value at the end of
the lease terms. APS must give notice to the respective lessor trusts between December 31, 2010
and December 31, 2012 if it wishes to exercise, or not exercise, either of these options. We are
analyzing these options. See Note 20 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2
sale leaseback transactions.

Palo Verde Operating Licenses—Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an
operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June
1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987. The full power operating licenses, each
valid for a period of 40 years, authorize APS, as operating agent for Palo Verde, to operate the
three Palo Verde Units. On December 15, 2008, APS applied for renewed operating licenses for the
Palo Verde Units for a period of 20 years beyond the expirations of the current licenses. The
current NRC schedule for the applications estimates that a final NRC decision will be issued in
April 2011. APS is making preparations to secure resources necessary to operate the plant for the
period of extended operation, including the execution in April 2010 of a Municipal Effluent
Purchase and Sale Agreement that provides effluent water rights necessary for cooling purposes at
Palo Verde through 2050.

Palo Verde Fuel Cycle —The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages:

•mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates;

•conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride;

•enrichment of uranium hexafluoride;

•fabrication of fuel assemblies;

•utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and

•storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel.

The Palo Verde participants are continually identifying their future nuclear fuel resource
needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs. The Palo Verde participants have
contracted for all of Palo Verde’s requirements for uranium concentrates through 2011 and 95% of
its requirements through 2017. A new contract is currently being negotiated that will cover Palo
Verde’s remaining requirements for uranium concentrates through 2017. The participants have also
contracted for all of Palo Verde’s conversion services through 2018, all of Palo Verde’s enrichment
services through 2020 and all of Palo Verde’s fuel assembly fabrication services through 2016.

Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal —The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (“NWPA”)
required the DOE to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste
generated by the nation’s nuclear power plants by 1998. The DOE’s obligations are reflected in a
Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste (“Standard
Contract”) with each nuclear power plant. The DOE failed to begin accepting Palo Verde’s spent
nuclear fuel by 1998, and APS (on behalf of itself and the other Palo Verde participants) filed a
lawsuit for DOE’s breach of the Palo Verde Standard Contract in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims.
The Court of Federal Claims ruled in favor of APS and in October 2010 awarded $30.2 million in
damages to the Palo Verde participants for costs incurred through December 2006.





The DOE had planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations by designing,
licensing, constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada.
In June 2008, DOE submitted its application to the NRC to authorize construction of the Yucca
Mountain repository. In March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice its Yucca
Mountain construction authorization application that was pending before the NRC. Several
interested parties have intervened in the NRC proceeding, and the proceeding has not been
conclusively decided by the NRC or the courts. Additionally, a number of interested parties have
filed a variety of lawsuits in different jurisdictions around the country challenging the DOE’s
authority to withdraw the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application. None of these
lawsuits have been conclusively decided by the courts.

Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site independent spent fuel storage installation
(“ISFSI”) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating
license period, which ends in December 2027. Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at
its on-site ISFSI to store a portion of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of
extended operation, which ends in December 2047 (assuming the NRC approves APS’s request for
renewed operating licenses, as discussed above). If uncertainties regarding the United States
government’s obligation to accept and store spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will
evaluate alternative storage solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI to accommodate
all of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation.

In addition to the spent fuel stored at Palo Verde’s on-site ISFSI, Palo Verde also generates
certain types of low level radioactive waste that are stored on-site. Currently, the Class B and
Class C waste (the higher radioactivity of the low level wastes) is stored on-site since industry
access to a disposal site was eliminated several years ago. The NRC is considering regulations
that would allow the industry to eliminate much of this waste by blending it with lower level Class
A waste so that it can be disposed of at a facility such as the one Palo Verde utilizes in Utah.

Nuclear Decommissioning Costs—APS currently relies on an external sinking fund mechanism to
meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units
1, 2 and 3. The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in
APS’s ACC jurisdictional rates. Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non-bypassable
system benefits charge (one paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system), which
allows APS to maintain its external sinking fund mechanism. See Note 12 for additional information
about APS’s nuclear decommissioning costs.

Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters— See “Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station —
Nuclear Insurance” in Note 11 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde
participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.

Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities

APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk,
located near the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station; Ocotillo, located in Tempe; Sundance,
located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson;
and Yucca, located near Yuma. Several of the units at Saguaro and Yucca run on either gas or oil.
APS has one oil only power plant, Douglas, located in the town of Douglas, Arizona. APS owns and
operates each of these plants with the exception of one combustion turbine unit and one steam unit
at Yucca that are operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District. APS has a total
entitlement from these plants of 3,389 MW. Gas for these plants is acquired through APS’s
hedging program. APS has long-term gas transportation agreements with three different companies,
some of which are effective through 2024. Fuel oil is acquired under short-term purchases
delivered primarily to West Phoenix, where it is distributed to APS’s other oil power plants by
truck.





Solar Facilities

APS owns and operates more than sixty small solar systems around the state. Together they
have the capacity to produce about 5 MW of renewable energy. This fleet of solar systems includes
a 3 MW facility located at the Prescott Airport, a 1 MW facility located at APS’s Saguaro power
plant and less than 1 MW of solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems installed as part of the
Community Power Project in Flagstaff, Arizona. The Community Power Project, approved by the ACC on
April 1, 2010, is a pilot program through which, upon completion, APS will own, operate and receive
energy from approximately 1.5 MW of solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems located within a
certain test area in Flagstaff, Arizona.

Purchased Power Contracts

In addition to its own available generating capacity, APS purchases electricity under various
arrangements, including long-term contracts and purchases through short-term markets to supplement
its owned or leased generation and hedge its energy requirements. A substantial portion of APS’s
purchased power expense is netted against wholesale sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
(See Note 18.) APS continually assesses its need for additional capacity resources to assure
system reliability. APS does not expect to require new conventional generation sources sooner than
2017, due primarily to planned additions of renewable resources and energy efficiency initiatives.

Purchased Power Capacity —APS’s purchased power capacity under long-term contracts,
including its renewable energy portfolio, is summarized in the tables below. All capacity values
are based on net capacity unless otherwise noted.

TypeDates AvailableCapacity (MW)Purchase Agreement (a)Year-round through December 2014104Purchase Agreement (b)Year-round through June 14, 202060Exchange Agreement (c)May 15 to September 15 annually through 2020480Tolling AgreementYear-round through May 2017500Tolling AgreementSummer seasons through October 2019560Day-Ahead Call Option AgreementSummer seasons through September 2015500Day-Ahead Call Option AgreementSummer seasons through summer 2016150Demand Response Agreement (d)Summer seasons through 2024100Renewable Energy (e)Various223

(a)The capacity under this agreement varies by month, with a maximum capacity of 104 MW.(b)Up to 60 MW of capacity is available; however, the amount of electricity available to APS
under this agreement is based in large part on customer demand and is adjusted annually.





(c)This is a seasonal capacity exchange agreement under which APS receives electricity during
the summer peak season (from May 15 to September 15) and APS returns a like amount of
electricity during the winter season (from October 15 to February 15).(d)The capacity under this agreement increases in phases over the first three years to reach the
100 MW level by the summer of 2012.(e)Renewable energy purchased power agreements are described in detail below under “Current and
Future Resources — Renewable Energy Standard — Renewable Energy Portfolio.”

Current and Future Resources

Current Demand and Reserve Margin

Electric power demand is generally seasonal. In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the
hot summer months. APS’s 2010 peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on July 15,
2010 at 6,936 MW, compared to the 2009 peak of 7,218 MW recorded on July 27, 2009. APS’s operable
generating capacity, together with firm purchases totaling 2,974 MW, including short-term seasonal
purchases and unit contingent purchases, resulted in an actual reserve margin, at the time of the
2010 peak demand, of 21.8%. The power actually available to APS from its resources fluctuates from
time to time due in part to planned and unplanned plant and transmission outages.

Future Resources and Resource Plan

Under the ACC’s modified resource planning rule, APS will file by April 1stof each
even year its resource plans for the next fifteen-year period. The ACC’s modified rule also
requires APS to file its first resource plan within 120 days after the rule becomes effective. The
modified rule became effective in January 2011 and APS will likely file a resource plan in the
first quarter of 2011. The modified rule also requires the ACC to issue an order with its
acknowledgment of APS’s resource plan within approximately ten months following its submittal. The
ACC’s acknowledgment of APS’s resource plan will consider factors such as the total cost of
electric energy services, demand management, analysis of supply-side options, system reliability
and risk management.





Renewable Energy Standard

In 2006, the ACC adopted the RES. Under the RES, electric utilities that are regulated by the
ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy sales from eligible
renewable resources, including solar, wind, biomass, biogas and geothermal technologies. The
renewable energy requirement is 3% of retail electric sales in 2011 and increases annually until it
reaches 15% in 2025. In APS’s 2009 retail rate case settlement agreement, APS committed to have
1,700 GWh of new renewable resources in service by year-end 2015 in addition to its 2008 renewable
resource commitments. Taken together, APS’s commitment is estimated to be 3,400 GWh, or
approximately 10% of retail sales, by year-end 2015, which is double the existing RES target of 5%
for that year. (See Note 3.) A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of
distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small-scale renewable technologies that are located
on customers’ properties). Accordingly, under the RES, an increasing percentage of that
requirement must be supplied from distributed energy resources. This distributed energy
requirement is 25% of the overall RES requirement of 3% in 2011 and increases to 30% of the
applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. The following table summarizes these
requirement standards and their timing:

2011201520202025RES as a % of retail electric sales3%5%10%15%Percent of RES to be supplied from
distributed energy resources25%30%30%30%

Renewable Energy Portfolio.APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable
resources totaling 875 MW, including wind, geothermal, solar, biomass and biogas. Of this
portfolio, 288 MW are currently in operation and 587 MW are under contract for development or are
under construction. Renewable resources in operation include 5 MW of facilities owned by APS, 223
MW of long-term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 60 MW of customer-sited, third-party
owned distributed energy resources.

APS continues to actively consider opportunities to enhance its renewable energy portfolio,
both to ensure its compliance with the RES and to meet the needs of its customer base. APS’s
strategy to achieve its RES requirements includes executing purchased power contracts for new
facilities, ongoing development of distributed energy resources and procurement of new facilities
to be owned by APS. One of the key programs under which APS will own solar resources is the “AZ
Sun Program.” As approved by the ACC, the AZ Sun Program will allow APS to own 100 MW of solar
photovoltaic power plants across Arizona by investing up to $500 million through 2014. Under this
program to date, APS has executed contracts for the development of 83 MW of new solar generation,
representing an investment commitment of approximately $377 million. See Note 3 for additional
details about the AZ Sun Program, including the related cost recovery.

The following table summarizes APS’s renewable energy sources in operation and under
development. Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to
various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the projects to
the electric grid.





Actual/NetNet CapacityTargetCapacityPlanned/CommercialInUnderOperationTermOperationDevelopmentLocationDate(Years)(MW)(MW)APS OwnedSolar:AZ Sun Program:PalomaGila Bend, AZ201117Cotton CenterGila Bend, AZ201117Hyder Phase 1Hyder, AZ201111Hyder Phase 2Hyder, AZ20125Chino ValleyChino Valley, AZ201219Luke AFBGlendale, AZ2012/2013(a)14Subtotal AZ Sun Program (b)83Multiple FacilitiesAZVarious5Total APS Owned583Purchased Power AgreementsSolar:Solana (c)Gila Bend, AZ201330250RE AjoAjo, AZ2011255Sun E AZ 1Prescott, AZ20113010Solar 1 (d)Tonopah, AZ20123015Wind:Aragonne MesaSanta Rosa, NM20062090High LonesomeMountainair, NM200930100Perrin Ranch WindWilliams, AZ20112599Geothermal:Salton SeaImperial County, CA20062310Biomass:SnowflakeSnowflake, AZ20081510SnowflakeSnowflake, AZ2008110Biogas:Glendale LandfillGlendale, AZ2010203Landfill 1 (d)Surprise, AZ2012203Total Purchased Power Agreements223382Distributed EnergySolar:APS Owned (e)AZvarious1Third-party Owned (f)AZvarious6066Agreement 1Bagdad, AZ20122515Agreement 2 (g)AZ2012-201420-2540Total Distributed Energy60122Total Renewable Portfolio288587

(a)The timing is dependent on site preparation activities.(b)Under the AZ Sun Program, 17 MW remains to be fulfilled.(c)Represents contracted capacity.(d)Details of these agreements have not yet been publicly announced.(e)Reflects Community Power Project. See Note 3.(f)Achieved through incentive-based programs. Includes resources with
production-based incentives that have terms of 10-20 years.(g)Agreement ramps up to 40 MW over 3 years.





Demand Side Management

Arizona regulators are placing an increased focus on energy efficiency and other demand side
management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid
in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. In December 2009, the ACC initiated
Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% cumulative annual
energy savings by 2020. This standard was adopted and became effective on January 1, 2011. This
ambitious standard will likely impact Arizona’s future energy resource needs. (See Note 3 for
energy efficiency and other demand side management obligations resulting from APS’s 2009 retail
rate case settlement.)

Economic Stimulus Projects

Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), the Federal government
made a number of programs available for utilities to develop renewable resources, improve
reliability and create jobs by using economic stimulus funding. Certain programs are also
available through the State of Arizona.

In 2009, the DOE announced an ARRA commitment to fund the majority of a carbon dioxide
emission reduction research and development project in the amount of $71 million, which was to be
located at our Cholla power plant. Due to the increased resource and funding requirements for a
project of that size, APS elected not to move forward with that award and is now in the process of
closing out the project. However, APS is moving forward with work under the $3 million award from
DOE for a high penetration photovoltaic generation study related to the Community Power Project in
Flagstaff, Arizona. The funding under this DOE award will continue to be contingent upon meeting
certain project milestones, including DOE-established budget parameters, over the next four years.

APS is also continuing its work as a sub-recipient under an ARRA award received through the
State of Arizona’s Department of Commerce. This approximately $4 million award is for the
implementation of various distributed energy and energy efficiency programs in Arizona. APS will
be implementing certain solar water heater and photovoltaic-related community projects under this
award.

Competitive Environment and Regulatory Oversight

Retail

The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates and its issuance of securities. The ACC must
also approve any transfer or encumbrance of APS’s property used to provide retail electric service
and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between Pinnacle West, APS and
their respective affiliates.





APS is subject to varying degrees of competition from other investor-owned electric and gas
utilities in Arizona (such as Southwest Gas Corporation), as well as cooperatives, municipalities,
electrical districts and similar types of governmental or non-profit organizations. In addition,
some customers, particularly industrial and large commercial customers, may own and operate
generation facilities to meet some or all of their own energy requirements. This practice is
becoming more popular with customers installing or having installed products such as roof top solar
panels to meet or supplement their energy needs.

In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric
competition in Arizona. As a result, as of January 1, 2001, all of APS’s retail customers were
eligible to choose alternate energy suppliers. However, there are currently no active retail
competitors offering unbundled energy or other utility services to APS’s customers. In 2000, the
Arizona Superior Court found that the rules were in part unconstitutional and in other respects
unlawful, the latter finding being primarily on procedural grounds, and invalidated all ACC orders
authorizing competitive electric services providers to operate in Arizona. In 2004, the Arizona
Court of Appeals invalidated some, but not all of the rules and upheld the invalidation of the
orders authorizing competitive electric service providers. In 2005, the Arizona Supreme Court
declined to review the Court of Appeals decision.

To date, the ACC has taken no further or substantive action on either the rules or the prior
orders authorizing competitive electric service providers in response to the final Court of Appeals
decision. In 2008, the ACC directed the ACC staff to investigate whether such retail competition
was in the public interest and what legal impediments remain to competition in light of the Court
of Appeals decision referenced above. The ACC staff’s report on the results of its investigation
was issued on August 12, 2010. The report stated that additional analysis, discussion and study of
all aspects of the issue are required in order to perform a proper evaluation. While the report
did not make any specific recommendations other than to conduct more workshops, the report did
state that the current retail electric competition rules are incomplete and in need of
modification.

On April 14, 2010, the ACC issued a decision holding that solar vendors that install and
operate solar facilities for non-profit schools and governments pursuant to a specific type of
contract that calculates payments based on the energy produced are not “public service
corporations” under the Arizona Constitution, and are therefore not regulated by the ACC. A second
matter is pending with the ACC to determine whether that ruling should extend to solar providers
who serve a broader customer base under the same business model. Use of such products by customers
within our territory would result in some level of competition. APS cannot predict when, and the
extent to which, additional electric service providers will enter or re-enter APS’s service
territory.





Wholesale

The FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. (See Note 3 for
information regarding APS’s transmission rates.) During 2010, approximately 5.8% of APS’s electric
operating revenues resulted from such sales and services. APS’s wholesale activity primarily
consists of managing fuel and purchased power supplies to serve retail customer energy
requirements. APS also sells, in the wholesale market, its generation output that is not needed
for APS’s Native Load and, in doing so, competes with other utilities, power marketers and
independent power producers. Additionally, subject to specified parameters, APS markets, hedges
and trades in electricity and fuels.

Environmental Matters

Climate Change

Legislative Initiatives.In the past several years, the United States Congress has considered
bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions. In 2009, the House of Representatives
passed a comprehensive energy and climate change bill, but the Senate did not consider it or a
similar bill in the 111thCongress. With much focus on the economy, it is unclear when
Congress will consider another global warming bill. The actual economic and operational impact of
any legislation on APS depends on a variety of factors, none of which can be fully known until such
legislation passes and the specifics of the resulting program are established. These factors
include the terms of the legislation with regard to allowed emissions; whether any permitted
emissions allowances will be allocated to source operators free of cost or auctioned; the cost to
reduce emissions or buy allowances in the marketplace; and the availability of offsets and
mitigating factors to moderate the costs of compliance. At the present time, we cannot predict
what form of legislation, if any, will ultimately pass.

In addition to federal legislative initiatives, state-specific initiatives may also impact our
business. While Arizona has not yet enacted any state-specific legislation regarding greenhouse
gas emissions, the California legislature enacted AB 32 and SB 1368 in 2006 to address greenhouse
gas emissions. In December 2010, the California Air Resources Board approved regulations that will
establish a cap-and-trade program for greenhouse gas emissions which is scheduled to be launched in
2012 as part of the state’s program implementing AB32. In addition, the New Mexico Environmental
Improvement Board recently enacted a greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program and emissions cap, to
become effective in 2012 and 2013, respectively.

We are monitoring these and other state legislative developments to understand the extent to
which they may affect our business, including our sales into the impacted states or the ability of
our out-of-state power plant participants to continue their participation in certain coal-fired
power plants. In particular, SCE, a participant in Four Corners, has indicated that SB 1368 may
prohibit it from making emission control expenditures at the plant. (See “Energy Sources and
Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Coal Fueled Generating Facilities — Four Corners”
above for details of the pending sale of SCE’s interest in Four Corners to APS.)





Regulatory Initiatives.In December 2009, the EPA determined that greenhouse gas emissions
endanger public health and welfare. This determination was made in response to a 2007 United
States Supreme Court ruling that greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Act’s broad definition
of “air pollutant” and, as a result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions
of new motor vehicles under the Clean Air Act. As a result of the endangerment finding, the EPA
determined that the Clean Air Act required new regulatory requirements for new and modified major
greenhouse
gas emitting sources, including power plants. On June 3, 2010, the EPA issued a rule under the
Clean Air Act, known as the “tailoring rule,” establishing new greenhouse gas emissions thresholds
that determine when sources, including power plants, must obtain air operating permits or New
Source Review permits. New Source Review is a pre-construction permitting program under the Clean
Air Act that requires analysis of pollution controls prior to building a new stationary source or
making major modifications to an existing stationary source. The tailoring rule became effective
on August 2, 2010 and it became applicable to power plants on January 2, 2011. Several groups have
filed lawsuits challenging the EPA’s endangerment finding and the tailoring rule.

APS does not expect the tailoring rule to have a significant impact on its current operations.
The rule will require APS to consider the impact of greenhouse gas emissions as part of its
traditional New Source Review analysis for new sources and major modifications to existing plants.
At the present time, we cannot predict what other rules or regulations may ultimately result from
the EPA’s endangerment finding, whether the parties challenging the endangerment finding or the
tailoring rule will be successful, and what impact other potential rules or regulations will have
on APS’s operations.

On December 30, 2010, pursuant to its authority under the Clean Air Act, the EPA finalized a
greenhouse gas Federal Implementation Plan (“FIP”) for Arizona relating to pre-construction permits
for construction of new sources or major modifications of existing sources. As a result of this
action, effective January 2, 2011, the EPA assumed responsibility for acting on permit applications
for only the greenhouse gas portion of such pre-construction permits. State permitting authorities
will continue to retain responsibility for the remaining parts of pre-construction permits that are
unrelated to emissions of greenhouse gasses. To the extent Arizona seeks and receives from the EPA
a delegation of permitting authority for greenhouse gas emissions, the state will assume
responsibility for issuing both the greenhouse gas and non-greenhouse gas portions of
pre-construction permits. The greenhouse gas FIP will remain in place until such time as the EPA
approves a State Implementation Plan that applies pre-construction permit requirements to
greenhouse gas-emitting stationary sources in Arizona. APS does not expect the greenhouse gas FIP
to have a significant impact on its current operations.

The EPA also recently announced its intent to promulgate New Source Performance Standards
(“NSPS”) for greenhouse gas emissions from certain industrial facilities, under the Clean Air Act.
The EPA intends to propose the new standards by July 2011 and to finalize them by May 2012. The
EPA has indicated that the rules will apply to coal-fired electric generating units (“EGUs”) and
will establish NSPS for new and modified EGUs and emission guidelines for existing EGUs. The rules
are expected to apply to the Four Corners, Cholla and the Navajo Plant. We cannot currently
predict the impact of these rules on APS’s operations.

If any emission reduction legislation or additional regulations are enacted, we will assess
our compliance alternatives, which may include replacement of existing equipment, installation of
additional pollution control equipment, purchase of allowances, retirement or suspension of
operations at certain coal-fired facilities, or other actions. Although associated capital
expenditures or operating costs resulting from greenhouse gas emission regulations or legislation
could be material, we believe that we would be able to recover the costs of these environmental
compliance initiatives through our rates.





Regional Initiative.In 2007, six western states (Arizona, California, New Mexico, Oregon,
Utah and Washington) and two Canadian provinces (British Columbia and Manitoba) entered into an
accord, the Western Climate Initiative (“WCI”), to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles
and certain industries, including utilities. Montana, Quebec and Ontario have also joined WCI.
WCI
participants set a goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions 15% below 2005 levels by 2020.
After soliciting public comment, in September 2008 WCI issued the design of a cap-and-trade program
for greenhouse gas emissions. Due in part to the recent activity at the federal level discussed
above, the initiative’s momentum and the movement toward detailed proposed rules has slowed. On
February 2, 2010, Arizona’s Governor issued an executive order stating that Arizona will continue
to be a member of WCI to monitor its advancements in this area, but it will not implement the WCI
regional cap-and-trade program. As a result, while we continue to monitor the progress of WCI, at
the present time we do not believe it will have a material impact on our operations.

Company Response to Climate Change Initiatives.We have undertaken a number of initiatives to
address emission concerns, including renewable energy procurement and development, promotion of
programs and rates that promote energy conservation, renewable energy use and energy efficiency.
(See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Current and Future Resources” above for details of
these plans and initiatives.) APS currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources,
including wind, geothermal, solar and biomass and we are focused on increasing the percentage of
our energy that is produced by renewable resources.

In January 2008, APS joined the Climate Registry as a Founding Reporter. Founding Reporters
are companies that voluntarily joined the non-profit organization before May 2008 to measure and
report greenhouse gas emissions in a common, accurate and transparent manner consistent across
industry sectors and borders. Beginning in 2010, APS stopped participating in the Climate Registry
because APS began reporting substantially the same information under the mandatory greenhouse gas
reporting rule issued by the EPA on September 22, 2009. Pinnacle
West prepares an annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which
is available on our website(www.pinnaclewest.com). The
report provides information related to the Company and its approach to sustainability and its
workplace and environmental performance. The information on Pinnacle West’s website, including the
Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into this report.

Climate Change Lawsuits.In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of
Kivalina, Alaska filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Northern District of California against
nine oil companies, fourteen power companies (including Pinnacle West), and a coal company,
alleging that the defendants’ emissions of carbon dioxide contribute to global warming and
constitute a public and private nuisance. The plaintiffs also allege that the effects of global
warming will require the relocation of the village and they are seeking an unspecified amount of
monetary damages. In June 2008, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the action, which were
granted. The plaintiffs filed an appeal with the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in November 2009,
and Pinnacle West filed its reply on June 30, 2010. The court has not yet scheduled oral
arguments on the plaintiffs’ appeal. We believe the action is without merit and intend to
continue to defend against the claims.

A similar nuisance lawsuit,American Electric Power Co., Inc. v. Connecticut,is currently
pending in the United States Supreme Court. Another such lawsuit was dismissed by the Fifth
Circuit on procedural grounds. Both cases, as well as the Kivalina case, raise political and legal
considerations, including whether the courts can or should be making climate change policy
decisions. The outcome of theAmerican Electric Powercase is
particularly significant because the issues being considered by the
Supreme Court closely overlap with the main issues presented  in theKivalinaappeal.   We are not a party to either of these two lawsuits, but are monitoring these
developments and their potential industry impacts.





EPA Environmental Regulation

Regional Haze Rules.Over a decade ago, the EPA announced regional haze rules to reduce
visibility impairment in national parks and wilderness areas. The rules require states (or, for
sources located on tribal land, the EPA) to determine what pollution control technologies
constitute the “best available retrofit technology” (“BART”) for certain older major stationary
sources. The EPA subsequently issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule, which provides guidelines on
how to perform a BART analysis.

Cholla.In 2007, ADEQ required APS to perform a BART analysis for Cholla pursuant to the
Clean Air Visibility Rule. APS completed the BART analysis for Cholla and submitted its BART
recommendations to ADEQ on February 4, 2008. The recommendations include the installation of
certain pollution control equipment that APS believes constitutes BART. ADEQ has reviewed APS’s
recommendations and is expected to submit to EPA Region 9 its proposed BART State Implementation
Plan (“SIP”) for Cholla and other sources within the state in the near future. On January 19,
2011, a group of environmental organizations notified EPA of its intent to sue the agency as a
result of EPA’s alleged failure to promulgate a Federal Implementation Plan for states that have
not yet submitted all or part of the required BART SIPs, including Arizona.

Once APS receives a final determination as to what constitutes BART for Cholla, we will have
five years to complete the installation of the equipment and to achieve the emission limits
established by ADEQ. However, in order to coordinate with the plant’s other scheduled activities,
APS is currently implementing portions of its recommended plan for Cholla on a voluntary basis.
Costs related to the implementation of these portions of our recommended plan are included in our
environmental expenditure estimates (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7).

Four Corners and the Navajo Plant.EPA Region 9 previously requested that APS, as the
operating agent for Four Corners, and SRP, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, perform a
BART analysis for Four Corners and the Navajo Plant, respectively. APS and SRP each submitted an
analysis to the EPA concluding that certain combustion control equipment constitutes BART for these
plants. Based on the analyses and comments received through EPA’s rulemaking process, the EPA will
determine what it believes constitutes BART for each plant.

On October 6, 2010, the EPA issued its proposed BART determination for Four Corners. The
proposed rule would require the installation of post-combustion controls on each of Units 1-5 at
Four Corners to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions. Current estimates indicate that APS’s total
costs for these controls could be up to approximately $400 million for Four Corners. If APS’s
purchase of SCE’s interest in Units 4 and 5 is consummated and Units 1-3 are closed, APS’s total
costs for these controls would be approximately $300 million. (See “Energy Sources and Resource
Planning — Generation Facilities — Coal Fueled Generating Facilities — Four Corners” for details
of this proposed transaction.) The EPA also indicated in the proposal that it may require the
installation of electrostatic precipitators or baghouses on Units 1, 2 and 3 to reduce particulate
matter emissions. APS estimates that its total costs for such particulate removal equipment is
approximately $220 million, which may also be required under the anticipated mercury rules. (See
“Environmental Matters — Mercury and Other Hazardous Air Pollutants” below for additional
information on these anticipated rules.) The EPA proposed a 10% stack opacity limitation for all
five units and a 20% opacity limitation on certain fugitive dust emissions, although the proposed
fugitive dust provision is unrelated to BART.





On November 24, 2010, APS submitted a letter to the EPA proposing an alternative to the EPA’s
October BART proposal. Specifically, APS proposed to close Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3 by 2014
and to install post-combustion pollution controls for NOx on Units 4 and 5 by the end of 2018,
provided that the EPA agrees to a contemporaneous resolution of Four Corners’ obligations or
liability, if any, under the regional haze and reasonably attributable visibility impairment
programs, the New Source Review program, and NSPS programs of the Clean Air Act.

On February 10, 2011, the EPA signed a Supplemental Notice Requesting Comment, related to the
BART rulemaking for Four Corners. In the Supplemental Notice, the EPA proposed to find that a
different alternative emission control strategy, based upon APS’s November 2010 proposal, would
achieve more progress than the EPA’s October 2010 BART proposal. The Supplemental Notice proposes
that Units 1, 2 and 3 would close by 2014, post-combustion pollution controls for NOx would be
installed on Units 4 and 5 by July 31, 2018, and the NOx emission limitation for Units 4 and 5
would be 0.098 lbs/MMBtu, rather than the 0.11 lbs/MMBtu proposed by the EPA in October 2010. The
EPA extended the comment deadline for both the October 2010 proposal and the Supplemental Notice to
May 2, 2011. We are currently evaluating both proposals and will be providing comments to the EPA
on both.

The EPA has not yet issued a proposed rule for the Navajo Plant. SRP’s recommended plan for
the Navajo Plant includes the installation of combustion control equipment, with an estimated cost
to APS of approximately $6 million based on APS’s Navajo Plant ownership interest. If the EPA
determines that post-combustion controls are required, APS’s total costs could be up to
approximately $93 million for the Navajo Plant. The Four Corners and the Navajo Plant participants
will have five years after the EPA issues its final determinations to achieve compliance with their
respective BART requirements.

In addition, on February 16, 2010, a group of environmental organizations filed a petition
with the Departments of Interior and Agriculture requesting those agencies to certify to the EPA
that visibility impairment in sixteen national park and wilderness areas is reasonably attributable
to emissions from Four Corners, the Navajo Plant and other non-APS plants. If the agencies certify
impairment, the EPA is required to evaluate and, if necessary, determine BART for Four Corners and
the Navajo Plant under a different haze program known as “Reasonably Attributable Visibility
Impairment.” On January 19, 2011, a similar group of environmental organizations filed a lawsuit
against the Departments of Interior and Agriculture, alleging among other things that the agencies
failed to act on the February 2010 petition “without unreasonable delay” and requesting the court
to order the agencies to act on the petition within 30 days. We are currently evaluating the
potential impact of this lawsuit on APS.

The Four Corners and Navajo Plant participants’ obligations to comply with the EPA’s final
BART determinations, coupled with the financial impact of future climate change legislation, other
environmental regulations, the result of the lawsuit mentioned above and other business
considerations, could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of
individual participants to continue their participation in these plants.

In order to coordinate with each plant’s other scheduled activities, the plants are currently
implementing portions of their recommended plans described above on a voluntary basis. APS’s share
of the costs related to the implementation of these portions of the recommended plans are included
in our environmental expenditure estimates (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7).





Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants.In early 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
D.C. Circuit vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule (“CAMR”), which was adopted by the EPA to regulate
mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. As a result, the law in effect prior to the
adoption of the CAMR became the applicable law, and the EPA is now required to adopt final maximum
achievable control technology emissions (“MACT”) standards. Under a consent decree that was
finalized on April 15, 2010, the EPA has agreed to issue final MACT standards for mercury and other
hazardous air pollutants by November 2011. Under the terms of the consent decree, APS will have
three years after the EPA issues its final rule to achieve compliance, which would likely require
APS to install additional pollution control equipment.

APS has installed, and continues to install, certain of the equipment necessary to meet the
anticipated standards. APS estimates that the cost for equipment necessary to meet these
anticipated standards is approximately $220 million for Four Corners Units 1-3 and $89 million for
Cholla Units 1-3. The estimated costs for Four Corners Units 1-3 are not included in our current
environmental expenditure estimates since our estimates assume the consummation of APS’s purchase
of SCE’s interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5 and the subsequent shut down of Units 1-3.
Cholla’s estimated costs for the next three years are included in our environmental expenditure
estimates. (See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7 for details of our capital expenditure estimates).

Coal Combustion Waste.On June 21, 2010, the EPA released its proposed regulations governing
the handling and disposal of coal combustion residuals (“CCRs”), such as fly ash and bottom ash.
APS currently disposes of CCRs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners, and
also sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete production.
The EPA proposes regulating CCRs as either non-hazardous waste or hazardous waste and requested
comments on three different alternatives. The hazardous waste proposal would phase out the use of
ash ponds for disposal of CCRs. The other two proposals regulate CCRs as non-hazardous waste and
impose performance standards for ash disposal. One of these proposals would require retrofitting or
closure of currently unlined ash ponds, while the other proposal would not require the installation
of liners or pond closures. The EPA has not yet indicated a preference for any of the alternatives.

APS filed comments on the proposed rule during the public comment period, which ended on
November 19, 2010. We do not know when the EPA will issue a final rule, including required
compliance dates. We cannot currently predict the outcome of the EPA’s actions or whether such
actions will have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.

Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards.In March 2008, the EPA adopted new, more
stringent eight-hour ozone standards, known as national ambient air quality standards or NAAQS. In
January 2010, the EPA proposed to adopt even more stringent eight-hour ozone NAAQS. As ozone
standards become more stringent, our fossil generation units may come under increasing pressure to
reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and volatile organic compounds and/or to generate emission
offsets for new projects or facility expansions. At this time, APS is unable to predict what
impact the adoption of these standards may have on its operations.





New Source Review.On April 6, 2009, APS received a request from the EPA under Section 114 of
the Clean Air Act seeking detailed information regarding projects at and operations of Four
Corners. This request is part of an enforcement initiative that the EPA has undertaken under the
Clean
Air Act. The EPA has taken the position that many utilities have made certain physical or
operational changes at their plants that should have triggered additional regulatory requirements
under the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act. Other electric utilities have
received and responded to similar Section 114 requests, and several of them have been the subject
of notices of violation and lawsuits by the EPA. APS responded to the EPA’s request in August 2009
and is currently unable to predict the timing or content of the EPA’s response, if any, or any
resulting actions.

On May 7, 2010, APS received a Notice of Intent to Sue from Earthjustice, on behalf of several
environmental organizations, related to alleged violations of the Clean Air Act at Four Corners
(the “Notice”). The Notice alleges New Source Review-related violations and NSPS violations. Under
the Clean Air Act, a citizens group is required to provide 60 days advance notice of its intent to
file a lawsuit. Within that 60-day time period, the EPA may step in and file a lawsuit regarding
the allegations. If the EPA does so, the citizens group is precluded from filing its own lawsuit,
but it may still intervene in the EPA’s lawsuit, if it so desires. The 60-day period lapsed in
early July 2010, and the EPA did not take any action. At this time, we cannot predict whether or
when Earthjustice might file a lawsuit.

Endangered Species Act.On January 30, 2011, the Center for Biological Diversity, Dine Citizens
Against Running Our Environment, and San Juan Citizens Alliance field a lawsuit against the Office
of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (“OSM”) and the Department of the Interior, alleging
that OSM failed to engage in mandatory Endangered Species Act
(“ESA”) consultation with the Fish and
Wildlife Service prior to authorizing the renewal of an operating permit for the mine that serves
Four Corners. The lawsuit alleges that activities at the mine, including mining and the disposal of
coal combustion residue, will adversely affect several endangered species and their critical
habitats. The lawsuit requests the court to vacate and remand the mining permit and enjoin all
activities carried out under the permit until OSM has complied with the ESA. Although we are not a
party to the lawsuit, we are evaluating the lawsuit to determine its potential impact on plant
operations.

Superfund.The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(“Superfund”) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the
soil, water or air. Those who generated, transported or disposed of hazardous substances at a
contaminated site are among those who are PRPs. PRPs may be strictly, and often are jointly and
severally, liable for clean-up. On September 3, 2003, the EPA advised APS that the EPA considers
APS to be a PRP in the Motorola
52ndStreet Superfund Site, Operable Unit 3 (“OU3”) in
Phoenix, Arizona. APS has facilities that are within this Superfund site. APS and Pinnacle West
have agreed with the EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within
OU3. In addition, on September 23, 2009, APS agreed with the EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily
assist with the funding and management of the site-wide groundwater remedial investigation and
feasibility study work plan. APS estimates that its costs related to this investigation and study
will be approximately $1 million, which is reserved as a liability on its financial statements. We
anticipate incurring additional expenditures in the future, but because the overall investigation
is not complete and ultimate remediation requirements are not yet finalized, at the present time we
cannot accurately estimate our total expenditures.

By letter dated April 25, 2008, the EPA informed APS that it may be a PRP in the Gila River
Indian Reservation Superfund Site in Maricopa County, Arizona. APS, along with three other electric
utility companies, owns a parcel of property on which a transmission pole and a portion of a
transmission line are located. The property abuts the Gila River Indian Community boundary and, at
one time, may have been part of an airfield where crop dusting took place. Currently, the EPA is
only seeking payment from APS and four other PRPs for past cleanup-related costs involving
contamination from the crop dusting. Based upon the total amount of cleanup costs reported by the
EPA in its letter to APS, we do not expect that the resolution of this matter will have a material
adverse impact on APS’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Manufactured Gas Plant Sites.Certain properties which APS now owns or which were previously
owned by it or its corporate predecessors were at one time sites of, or sites associated with,
manufactured gas plants. APS is taking action to voluntarily remediate these sites. APS does not
expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of
operations, cash flows or liquidity.





Navajo Nation Environmental Issues

Four Corners and the Navajo Plant are located on the Navajo Reservation and are held under
easements granted by the federal government as well as leases from the Navajo Nation. See “Energy
Sources and Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Coal Fueled Generating Facilities” above
for additional information regarding these plants.

In July 1995, the Navajo Nation enacted the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control
Act, the Navajo Nation Safe Drinking Water Act and the Navajo Nation Pesticide Act (collectively,
the “Navajo Acts”). The Navajo Acts purport to give the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection
Agency authority to promulgate regulations covering air quality, drinking water and pesticide
activities, including those activities that occur at Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. On October
17, 1995, the Four Corners participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a lawsuit in
the District Court of the Navajo Nation, Window Rock District, challenging the applicability of the
Navajo Acts as to Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. The Court has stayed these proceedings
pursuant to a request by the parties, and the parties are seeking to negotiate a settlement.

In April 2000, the Navajo Nation Council approved operating permit regulations under the
Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act. APS believes the Navajo Nation exceeded
its authority when it adopted the operating permit regulations. On July 12, 2000, the Four Corners
participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a petition with the Navajo Supreme Court
for review of these regulations. Those proceedings have been stayed, pending the settlement
negotiations mentioned above. APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.

On May 18, 2005, APS, Salt River Project, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, and the
Navajo Nation executed a Voluntary Compliance Agreement to resolve their disputes regarding the
Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act. As a result of this agreement, APS sought,
and the courts granted, dismissal of the pending litigation in the Navajo Nation Supreme Court and
the Navajo Nation District Court, to the extent the claims relate to the Clean Air Act. The
agreement does not address or resolve any dispute relating to other Navajo Acts. APS cannot
currently predict the outcome of this matter.

Water Supply

Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants. At the present time, APS
has adequate water to meet its needs. However, the Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is
located, has been experiencing drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants
if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. APS is continuing to
work with area stakeholders to implement agreements to minimize the effect, if any, on future
operations of the plant. The effect of the drought cannot be fully assessed at this time, and APS
cannot predict the ultimate outcome, if any, of the drought or whether the drought will adversely
affect the amount of power available, or the price thereof, from Four Corners.

Conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the southwestern United States have resulted
in numerous court actions, which, in addition to future supply conditions, have the potential to
impact APS operations.





San Juan River Adjudication.Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APS’s
operations have been the subject of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings, which will require a
number of years to resolve. APS is one of a number of parties in a proceeding, filed March
13, 1975, before the Eleventh Judicial District Court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a
stream system from which water for Four Corners is derived. An agreement reached with the Navajo
Nation in 1985, however, provides that if Four Corners loses a portion of its rights in the
adjudication, the Navajo Nation will provide, for an agreed upon cost, sufficient water from its
allocation to offset the loss.

Gila River Adjudication.

Little Colorado River Adjudication.APS has also filed claims to water in the Little Colorado
River Watershed in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County, Arizona, Superior Court,
which was originally filed on September 5, 1985. APS’s groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is
within the geographic area subject to the adjudication and, therefore, is potentially at issue in
the case. APS’s claims dispute the court’s jurisdiction over its groundwater rights.
Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. A number of parties are in the process of
settlement negotiations with respect to certain claims in this matter. Other claims have been
identified as ready for litigation in motions filed with the court. No trial date concerning APS’s
water rights claims has been set in this matter.

Although the above matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS does not expect that the
described litigation will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of
operations, cash flows or liquidity.

BUSINESS OF OTHER SUBSIDIARIES

The operations of our other first-tier subsidiaries (described below) are not expected to
contribute in any material way to our future financial performance nor will they require any
material amounts of capital over the next three years.





APSES

APSES provides energy-related products and services (such as energy master planning, energy
use consultation and facility audits, cogeneration analysis and installation, and project
management) with a focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy to commercial and industrial
retail customers in the western United States. On June 22, 2010, APSES sold its district cooling
business consisting of operations in downtown Phoenix, Tucson, and on certain Arizona State
University campuses. This sale resulted in an after-tax gain of approximately $25 million.

Financial Summary.

201020092008(dollars in millions)Net income (loss)$30$(2)$(1)Total assets at December 31$43$74$70

SunCor

SunCor was a developer of residential, commercial and industrial real estate projects in
Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah. Due to the continuing distressed conditions in the real
estate markets, in 2009 SunCor undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations,
master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate
its outstanding debt.

Financial Summary.

201020092008(dollars in millions)Revenues (a)$102$158$242Net loss attributable to
common shareholders (b)$(9)$(279)$(26)Total assets at December 31 (c)$16$166$547

(a)All reported as discontinued operations on Pinnacle West’s Consolidated
Statements of Income. (See Note 22).(b)These amounts include $266 million (pre-tax) and $53 million (pre-tax) real
estate impairment charges for 2009 and 2008, respectively.(c)The reduction in assets in 2010 is primarily due to asset sales. The $16
million of assets at December 31, 2010 consists primarily of $8 million of intercompany
receivables, $3 million of assets held for sale and $5 million of other assets.

In 2010 and 2009, income tax benefits related to SunCor operations were recorded by Pinnacle
West in accordance with an intercompany tax sharing agreement. See “Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Other Subsidiaries — SunCor” in Item 7 for a discussion of SunCor’s long-term debt,
liquidity and capital requirements, and the SunCor-related risk factor in Item 1A for a discussion
of risks facing SunCor.





El Dorado

El Dorado owns minority interests in several energy-related investments and Arizona
community-based ventures. El Dorado’s short-term goal is to prudently realize the value of its
existing investments. On a long-term basis, Pinnacle West may use El Dorado, when appropriate, for
investments that are strategic to the business of generating, distributing and marketing
electricity.

Financial Summary.

201020092008(dollars in millions)Net income (loss)$2$(7)$(10)Total assets at December 31$19$19$28

Income taxes related to El Dorado are recorded by Pinnacle West.

OTHER INFORMATION

Pinnacle West, APS and Pinnacle West’s other first-tier subsidiaries are all incorporated in
the State of Arizona. Additional information for each of these companies is provided below:

ApproximateNumber ofPrincipal Executive OfficeYear ofEmployees atAddressIncorporationDecember 31, 2010Pinnacle West400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 85004198580APS400 North Fifth StreetP.O. Box 53999Phoenix, AZ 85072-399919206,600APSES60 E. Rio Salado ParkwaySuite 1001Tempe, AZ 85281199850SunCor80 East Rio Salado ParkwaySuite 410Tempe, AZ 85281196510El Dorado400 North Fifth Street Phoenix, AZ 850041983—Total6,740

The APS number includes employees at jointly-owned generating facilities (approximately 3,100
employees) for which APS serves as the generating facility manager. Approximately 1,940 APS
employees are union employees. The collective bargaining agreement with union employees in the
fossil generation, energy delivery and customer service business areas expires in April 2011,
and the parties began negotiating a successor agreement in February 2011. The agreement with union
employees serving as Palo Verde security officers expires in 2013.





WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATIONWe use our websitewww.pinnaclewest.comas a channel of distribution for material Company
information. The following filings are available free of charge on our website as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC: Annual
Reports on Form 10-K, definitive proxy statements for our annual shareholder meetings, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports. Our board
and committee charters, Code of Ethics for Financial Executives, Ethics Policy and Standards of
Business Practices and other corporate governance information is also available on the Pinnacle
West website. Pinnacle West will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics for Financial
Executives and Ethics Policy and Standards of Business Practices, and any waivers that are required
to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, on its website. The
information on Pinnacle West’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, by contacting Pinnacle West at
the following address: Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, Office of the Secretary, Station 9068,
P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 (telephone 602-250-3252).26






