ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Pinnacle West

Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries. We derive
the majority of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS. APS is a
vertically-integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to
most of the State of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix
metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona.

Operating Revenues (in thousands):

Year Ended December 31,200920082007APS$3,149,500$3,133,496$2,936,277Percentage of Pinnacle West Consolidated96%95%89%

Pinnacle West’s other first-tier subsidiaries are SunCor, APSES and El Dorado. Additional
information related to these businesses is provided later in this report.

Our reportable business segments are the regulated electricity segment, which consists of
traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to
Native Load customers) and related activities, and includes electricity generation, transmission
and distribution, and the real estate segment, which consists of real estate development and
investment activities in the western United States.

Due to the continuing distressed conditions in the real estate markets, in 2009 our
real-estate subsidiary, SunCor, undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations,
master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate
its outstanding debt. As a part of this plan to sell substantially all of SunCor’s assets, the
real estate segment may no longer be a reporting segment in the future. See Note 17 for financial
information of our business segments.

BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY

APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.1 million customers. We own or
lease more than 6,280 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long-term and
short-term power purchase agreements for additional capacity, including a variety of agreements for
the purchase of renewable energy. During 2009, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted for
more than 1.1% of our electric revenues.





The following map shows APS’ retail service territory, including the locations of its
generating facilities and principal transmission lines.Energy Sources and Resource PlanningTo serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through
power purchase agreements. Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizona’s
future energy needs. APS’ sources of energy by fuel type during 2009 were: coal — 36.3%;
nuclear — 25.9%; purchased power — 20.6%; and gas, oil and other — 17.2%.Generation FacilitiesAPS has ownership interests in or leases the coal, nuclear, gas, oil and solar generating
facilities described below. For additional information regarding these facilities, see Item 2.Coal Fueled Generating FacilitiesFour Corners— Four Corners is a 5-unit coal-fired power plant located in the northwestern
corner of New Mexico. APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Four Corners Units 1, 2 and 3 and
15% of Units 4 and 5. APS has a total entitlement from Four Corners of 785 MW. The Four Corners
plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the
federal government. See “Plant and Transmission Line Leases and Easements on Indian Lands” in Item
2 for additional information. APS purchases all of Four Corners’ coal requirements from a supplier
with a long-term lease of coal reserves with the Navajo Nation. The Four Corners coal contract
runs through 2016.4




Cholla— Cholla is a 4-unit coal-fired power plant located in northeastern Arizona. APS
operates the plant and owns 100% of Cholla Units 1, 2 and 3. PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit 4 and APS
operates that unit for PacifiCorp. APS has a total entitlement from Cholla of 647 MW. APS
purchases all of Cholla’s coal requirements from a coal supplier that mines all of the coal under
long-term leases of coal reserves with the federal government and private landholders. The Cholla
coal contract runs through 2024. APS has the ability under the contract to reduce its annual coal
commitment and purchase a portion of Cholla’s coal requirements on the spot market to take
advantage of competitive pricing options and to purchase coal required for increased operating
capacity. APS believes that the current fuel contracts and competitive fuel supply options ensure
the continued operation of Cholla for its useful life. In addition, APS has a long-term coal
transportation contract.

Navajo Generating Station— The Navajo Plant is a 3-unit coal-fired power plant located in
northern Arizona. Salt River Project operates the plant and APS owns a 14% interest in Navajo
Units 1, 2 and 3. APS has a total entitlement from the Navajo Plant of 315 MW. The Navajo Plant’s
coal requirements are purchased from a supplier with long-term leases from the Navajo Nation and
the Hopi Tribe. The Navajo Plant is under contract with its coal supplier through 2011, with
options to extend through 2019. The Navajo Plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also
subject to an easement from the federal government. See “Plant and Transmission Line Leases and
Easements on Indian Lands” in Item 2 for additional information.

These coal plants face uncertainties related to existing and potential legislation and
regulation that could significantly impact their economics and operations. See “Environmental
Matters” below and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7 for environmental and climate change developments
impacting these coal facilities. See Note 11 for information regarding APS’ coal mine reclamation
obligations.

Nuclear

Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station —Palo Verde is a nuclear power plant located about 50
miles west of Phoenix, Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3
and about 17% of Unit 2. In addition, APS leases about 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a 29.1%
combined interest in that Unit. APS has a total entitlement from Palo Verde of 1,146 MW.

Palo Verde Leases —In 1986, APS sold about 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain
common facilities in three separate sale leaseback transactions. APS accounts for these leases as
operating leases. The leases, which have terms of 29.5 years, contain options to renew the leases
or to purchase the property for fair market value at the end of the lease terms. APS must give
notice to the respective lessors between December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2012 if it wishes to
exercise, or not exercise, either of these options. We are analyzing these options. See Notes 9
and 20 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2 sale leaseback transactions.





Palo Verde Operating Licenses—Operation of each of the three Palo Verde units requires an
operating license from the NRC. The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June
1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987. The full power operating licenses,
each valid for a period of 40 years, authorize APS, as operating agent for Palo Verde, to operate
the three Palo Verde units at full power. On December 15, 2008, APS applied for renewed operating
licenses for the Palo Verde units for a period of 20 years beyond the expirations of the current
licenses. The current NRC schedule for the applications estimates a final decision in the fall of
2011. APS is making preparations to secure resources necessary to operate the plant for the period
of extended operation.

Palo Verde Fuel Cycle —The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages:

•mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates;

•conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride;

•enrichment of uranium hexafluoride;

•fabrication of fuel assemblies;

•utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and

•storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel.

The Palo Verde participants are continually identifying their future nuclear fuel resource
needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs. The Palo Verde participants have
contracted for all of Palo Verde’s requirements for uranium concentrates through 2011. New
contracts are currently being negotiated that would meet the plant’s conversion services needs
through 2011, taking into account available inventory. The participants have also contracted for
all of Palo Verde’s enrichment services through 2013 and all of Palo Verde’s fuel assembly
fabrication services until at least 2015.

Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal —Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site
independent spent fuel storage installation (“ISFSI”) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be
irradiated during the initial operating license period, through 2027. Additionally, Palo Verde has
sufficient capacity at its on-site ISFSI to store a portion of the fuel that will be irradiated
during the period of extended operation. If uncertainties regarding the United States government’s
obligation to accept and store used fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate alternative
storage solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI to accommodate all of the fuel that
will be irradiated during the period of extended operation. See “Palo Verde Nuclear Generating
Station” in Note 11 for a discussion of spent nuclear fuel and waste disposal.

NRC Inspection —On February 22, 2007, the NRC issued a “white” finding (low to moderate safety
significance) due to electrical output issues with the Unit 3 emergency diesel generator that
occurred in 2006. Under the NRC’s Action Matrix, this finding, coupled with a previous NRC
“yellow” finding relating to a 2004 matter involving Palo Verde’s safety injection systems,
resulted in Palo Verde Unit 3 being placed in the “multiple/repetitive degraded cornerstone” column
of the NRC’s Action Matrix (“Column 4”), subjecting it to an enhanced NRC inspection regime.
Although only Palo Verde Unit 3 was in NRC’s Column 4, in order to adequately assess the need for
improvements, APS’ management conducted site-wide assessments of equipment and operations.

On March 24, 2009, the NRC informed APS that it was removing Palo Verde Unit 3 from Column 4,
removing Units 1 and 2 from the “one degraded cornerstone” column (“Column 3”) of the NRC’s Action
Matrix, and returning all three units of the plant to “Column
1” routine inspection and oversight by the NRC.
This notification followed the NRC’s completion of its inspections of the corrective actions taken
by Palo Verde to address the performance deficiencies that caused the NRC to place Unit 3 into
Column 4 and Units 1 and 2 into Column 3.





Nuclear Decommissioning Costs— APS currently relies on an external sinking fund mechanism to
meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3.
The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APS’ ACC
jurisdictional rates. Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non-bypassable system
benefits charge, which allows APS to maintain its external sinking fund mechanism. See Note 12 for
additional information about APS’ nuclear decommissioning costs.

Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters— See “Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station —
Nuclear Insurance” in Note 11 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde
participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.

Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities

APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk,
located near the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station; Ocotillo, located in Tempe; Sundance,
located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson;
and Yucca, located near Yuma. Several of the units at Saguaro and Yucca run on either gas or oil.
APS has one oil power plant, Douglas, located in the town of Douglas, Arizona. APS owns and
operates each of these plants with the exception of one combustion turbine unit and one steam unit
at Yucca that are operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District. APS has a total
entitlement from these plants of 3,389 MW. Gas for these plants is acquired through APS’ hedging
program. APS has long-term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, which
provide APS with fuel delivery through 2024. Fuel oil is acquired under short-term purchases
delivered primarily to West Phoenix, where it is distributed to APS’ other oil power plants by
truck.

Solar Facilities

APS owns and operates more than thirty on-grid and off-grid small solar systems around the
state. Together they have the capacity to produce about 6 MW of renewable energy. This fleet of
solar systems is anchored by a 3 MW facility located at the Prescott Airport and a 1 MW facility
located at APS’ Saguaro power plant.

Purchased Power Contracts

In addition to its own available generating capacity, APS purchases electricity under various
arrangements, including long-term contracts and purchases through short-term markets to supplement
its owned or leased generation and hedge its energy requirements. A substantial portion of APS’
purchased power expense is netted against wholesale sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
(See Note 18.) APS continually assesses its need for additional capacity resources to assure
system reliability. APS does not expect to require new conventional generation sources sooner than
2017, due to planned additions of renewable resources and energy efficiency initiatives.

Purchased Power Capacity —APS’ purchased power capacity under long-term contracts, including
its renewable energy portfolio, is summarized in the tables below. All capacity values are based
on net capacity unless otherwise noted.





CONVENTIONAL AGREEMENTS:

TypeDates AvailableCapacity (MW)Purchase Agreement (a)Year-round through December 2014Up to 90Purchase Agreement (b)Year-round through June 15, 2010238Exchange Agreement (c)May 15 to September 15 annually through 2020480Tolling AgreementJune 2007 through May 2017500Tolling AgreementJune 2010 through October 2019560Day-Ahead Call Option AgreementJune 2007 through September 2015 (summer seasons)500Day-Ahead Call
Option AgreementJune 2007 through summer 2016150Demand Response Agreement (d)2010 through 2024 (summer seasons)100

(a)The capacity under this agreement varies by month, with a maximum capacity of 90 MW.(b)The amount of electricity available to APS under this agreement is based in large part on
customer demand and is adjusted annually. This contract is being replaced with a purchase
agreement for approximately 36MW starting June 15, 2010 and ending June 14, 2020.(c)This is a seasonal capacity exchange agreement under which APS receives electricity during
the summer peak season (from May 15 to September 15) and APS returns a like amount of
electricity during the winter season (from October 15 to February 15).(d)The capacity under this agreement increases in a phased manner over the first three years to
reach the 100 MW level by the summer of 2012.

RENEWABLE AGREEMENTS:

Type and NameLocationContract End DateCapacity (MW)Operating Facilities:WindAragonne MesaSanta Rosa, NM202690High LonesomeMountainair, NM2039100GeothermalSalton SeaImperial County, CA202910BiomassWhite Mountain PowerSnowflake, AZ202310BiogasGlendale LandfillGlendale, AZ20303Signed Agreements for
Other Facilities:SolarSolana (a)Gila Bend, AZ2043250Solar 1 (b)Ajo, AZ20365Solar 2 (b)Buckeye, AZ20356Solar 3 (b)Prescott, AZ204110

(a)Represents contracted capacity.(b)Details of these agreements have not yet been publicly announced.





Current and Future Resources

Current Demand and Reserve Margin

Electric power demand is generally seasonal. In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the
hot summer months. APS’ 2009 peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on July 27,
2009 at 7,218 MW, compared to the 2008 peak of 7,026 MW recorded on August 1, 2008. APS’ operable
generating capacity, together with firm purchases totaling 2,657 MW, including short-term seasonal
purchases and unit contingent purchases, resulted in an actual reserve margin, at the time of the
2009 peak demand, of 15.6%. The power actually available to APS from its resources fluctuates from
time to time due in part to planned and unplanned plant and transmission outages and technical
problems.

Future Resources and Resource Plan

On January 29, 2009, APS submitted a Resource Plan Report to the ACC proposing a diverse
portfolio of generation resources to address the projected 60% increase in customer peak demand by
2025, which equates to approximately 6,500 MW of new capacity resources and accounts for both new
resources needed to meet growing customer loads as well as resources that will be needed to
replace expiring long-term purchases.

On December 15, 2009, the ACC approved a modified resource planning rule that requires APS to
file by April 1stof each even year its resource plans for the next fifteen-year period.
The ACC’s modified rule also requires APS to file its first resource plan within 120 days after
the rule becomes effective. APS believes the modified rule will likely become effective by
mid-2010, requiring APS to file a revised resource plan by the Fall of 2010, which will supercede
the January 2009 filing. The modified rule also requires the ACC to issue an order with its
acknowledgment of APS’ resource plan within approximately nine months following its submittal.





Renewable Energy Standard

In connection with its ongoing resource planning efforts, APS continues to focus on increasing
the percentage of its energy that is produced by renewable resources. In 2006, the ACC adopted the
Arizona Renewable Energy Standard and Tariff (the “Renewable Energy Standard” or “RES”). Under the
Renewable Energy Standard, electric utilities that are regulated by the ACC must supply an
increasing percentage of their retail electric energy sales from eligible renewable resources,
including solar, wind, biomass, biogas and geothermal technologies. The renewable energy
requirement is 2.5% of retail electric sales in 2010 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in
2025. In APS’ recent retail rate case settlement agreement, APS committed to, among other things,
an interim renewable energy target of 10% by year-end 2015, which is double the existing RES target
of 5% for that year. (See Note 3.) A component of the original RES is focused on stimulating
development of distributed energy systems (generally speaking, small-scale renewable technologies
that are located on customers’ properties). Accordingly, under the original RES, an increasing
percentage of that requirement must be supplied from distributed energy resources. This
distributed energy requirement is 20% of the overall RES requirement of 2.5% in 2010 and increases
to 30% of the applicable RES requirement in 2012 and subsequent years. The following table
summarizes these requirement standards and their timing:

2010201520202025RES as a % of retail electric sales2.5%5.0%10.0%15.0%Percent of RES to be supplied from distributed
energy resources20.0%30.0%30.0%30.0%APS’ RES commitment as a % of retail electric
sales per the retail rate case
settlement agreement10.0%

APS has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources including wind, geothermal, solar and
biomass, which currently collectively generates over 210 MW of renewable energy for its customers
via owned or contracted renewable generation facilities and an additional installed capacity of 21
MW equivalent of customer-sited distribution energy systems in operation. These current renewable
generation projects are either APS-owned solar facilities, as described under “Generation
Facilities — Solar Facilities” above, are acquired through long-term purchased power agreements, as
described under “Purchased Power Contracts” above, or are partially funded by renewable incentives
we offer to our customers. APS continues to actively consider opportunities to enhance its
renewable energy portfolio, both to ensure its compliance with the Renewable Energy Standard and to
meet the needs of its customer base.

Demand Side Management and Energy Efficiency

Arizona regulators are placing an increased focus on energy efficiency and demand side
management programs to encourage customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid
in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. In December 2009, the ACC initiated
Energy Efficiency rulemaking, with a proposed Energy Efficiency Standard of 22% annual energy
savings by 2020. An ambitious standard, such as that proposed, will likely increase participation
by APS customers in these conservation and energy efficiency programs, which in turn will likely
impact Arizona’s future energy resource needs. Energy Efficiency Rules are expected to be formally
adopted in 2010. (See Note 3 for demand side management and energy efficiency obligations
resulting from APS’ recent retail rate case settlement.)

Economic Stimulus Projects

Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), the Federal government is
making a number of programs available for utilities to develop renewable resources, improve
reliability and create jobs from the availability of economic stimulus funding. Certain programs
are also available through the State of Arizona.

In 2009, the DOE announced an ARRA commitment to fund the majority of a carbon dioxide
emission reduction research and development project in the amount of $70.5 million, which will be
located at our Cholla power plant. It also announced a commitment to fund, subject to final
negotiations, a $3.3 million high penetration photovoltaic generation study related to a proposed
APS community power project in Flagstaff, Arizona. These funding amounts are contingent upon
meeting certain project milestones, including DOE-established budget parameters, over the next four
years.





APS has also been selected by the State of Arizona’s Department of Commerce as a sub-recipient
under the State’s ARRA award for the implementation of various distributed energy and
energy efficiency programs in Arizona. The State is in final negotiations to provide APS with
approximately $3.7 million from the State’s ARRA grant so that APS can implement certain solar
water heater, photovoltaic and/or wind energy related community projects.

APS intends to continue to evaluate additional funding opportunities under the ARRA programs
that may be of benefit to APS’ business, operations or community activities.

Competitive Environment and Regulatory Oversight

Retail

The ACC regulates APS’ retail electric rates and its issuance of securities. The ACC must
also approve any transfer or encumbrance of APS’ property used to provide retail electric service
and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between Pinnacle West, APS and
their respective affiliates.

APS is subject to varying degrees of competition from other investor-owned electric and gas
utilities in Arizona (such as Southwest Gas Corporation), as well as cooperatives, municipalities,
electrical districts and similar types of governmental or non-profit organizations. In addition,
some customers, particularly industrial and large commercial customers, may own and operate
generation facilities to meet some or all of their own energy requirements. This practice is
becoming more popular with customers installing or having installed products such as roof top solar
panels to meet or supplement their energy needs.

In 1999, the ACC approved rules for the introduction of retail electric competition in
Arizona. As a result, as of January 1, 2001, all of APS’ retail customers were eligible to choose
alternate energy suppliers. However, there are currently no active retail competitors offering
unbundled energy or other utility services to APS’ customers. In 2000, an Arizona Superior Court
found that the rules were in part unconstitutional and in other respects unlawful, the latter
finding being primarily on procedural grounds, and invalidated all ACC orders authorizing
competitive electric services providers to operate in Arizona. In 2004, the Arizona Court of
Appeals invalidated some, but not all of the rules and upheld the invalidation of the orders
authorizing competitive electric service providers. In 2005, the Arizona Supreme Court declined to
review the Court of Appeals decision.

To date, the ACC has taken no further or substantive action on either the rules or the prior
orders authorizing competitive electric service providers in response to the final Court of Appeals
decision. However, as a result of a new request for authorization to provide competitive retail
electric service by Sempra Energy Solutions, LLC, the ACC directed the ACC staff to investigate
whether such retail competition was in the public interest and what legal impediments remain to
competition in light of the Court of Appeals decision referenced above. The ACC staff’s report on
the results of its investigation is due to be filed with the ACC on April 1, 2010. At present,
only limited electric retail competition exists in Arizona and only with certain entities not
regulated by the ACC.

Currently, there are two matters pending with the ACC that involve a business model where
customers pay solar vendors for the installation and operation of solar facilities based on the
amount of energy produced. The ACC must make a determination whether these entities would be
considered “public service corporations” under the Arizona Constitution, causing them to be
regulated by the ACC. Use of such products by customers within our territory would result in some
level of competition; however, at this time we do not feel this would materially impact our
financial results. APS cannot predict when, and the extent to which, additional electric service providers will
enter or re-enter APS’ service territory.





Wholesale

The FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services. (See Note 3 for
information regarding APS’ transmission rates.) During 2009, approximately 4.8% of APS’ electric
operating revenues resulted from such sales and services. APS’ wholesale activity primarily
consists of managing fuel and purchased power risks in connection with the costs of serving retail
customer energy requirements. APS also sells, in the wholesale market, its generation output that
is not needed for APS’ Native Load and, in doing so, competes with other utilities, power marketers
and independent power producers. Additionally, subject to specified parameters, APS markets,
hedges and trades in electricity and fuels.

Environmental Matters

Climate Change

Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives.In the past several years, the United States Congress
has considered bills that would regulate domestic greenhouse gas emissions. On June 26, 2009, the
House of Representatives approved the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, H.R. 2454.
In addition to establishing clean energy programs, H.R. 2454 would establish a greenhouse gas
emission cap-and-trade system starting in 2012 applicable to about 85% of all emission sources in
the nation. A similar bill (Kerry-Boxer Bill, S. 1733) is pending before the Senate. Both of
these bills would allocate a certain number of allowances to local distribution companies (such as
APS) through 2030.

To the extent APS’ emissions exceed the allowances allocated to it under these proposed bills,
APS would have an “allowance gap.” APS would have to purchase enough allowances from the market to
fill these gaps. The table below illustrates the estimated cost impacts to APS in 2012 to acquire
allowances to fill its allowance gap, and the associated retail rate impacts to customers under
H.R. 2454 and S. 1733. For purposes of this illustration, the table provides three assumed
allowance prices of $20, $50 and $75 per metric ton.

H.R. 2454S. 1733Allowance CostAnnual CostAnnual Cost($ per metric ton)($ in millions)Rate Impact($ in millions)Rate Impact$20$682%$1013%$50$1705%$2528%$75$2558%$37912%

The actual economic and operational impact of this or any similar legislation on the Company
depends on a variety of factors, none of which can be fully known until such legislation passes and
the specifics of the resulting program are established. These factors include the terms of the
legislation with regard to allowed emissions; whether the permitted emissions allowances will be
allocated to source operators free of cost or auctioned; the cost to reduce emissions or buy
allowances in the marketplace; and the availability of offsets and mitigating factors to moderate
the costs of compliance. At the present time, we cannot predict what form of legislation, if any,
will ultimately pass.





The EPA recently determined that greenhouse gas emissions endanger public health and welfare.
This determination was made in response to a 2007 United States Supreme Court ruling that
greenhouse gases fit within the Clean Air Act’s broad definition of “air pollutant” and, as a
result, the EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions of new motor vehicles under
the Clean Air Act. The recent endangerment finding could result in the EPA issuing new regulatory
requirements under the Clean Air Act for new and modified major greenhouse gas emitting sources,
including power plants. On September 30, 2009, the EPA announced a proposed rule under the Clean
Air Act requiring certain new and modified stationary sources, including power plants, to use the
best available control technology to minimize greenhouse gas
emissions. Several groups have filed lawsuits challenging the
EPA’s endangerment finding. At the present time we
cannot predict whether the proposed stationary source rule will be adopted in its current or a
revised form, what other rules or regulations may ultimately result
from the EPA’s finding, whether the parties challenging the
endangerment finding will be successful, and
what impact the proposed rule and potential other rules or regulations will have on APS’
operations.

In anticipation of potential future regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act as
described above, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a mandatory greenhouse gas reporting rule.
The rule applies to direct greenhouse gas emissions from facilities such as APS’ power plants. We
expect that our incremental costs to comply with this rule will be immaterial since APS already
routinely reports CO2and other greenhouse gas emissions from its plants.

In addition to federal legislative initiatives, state specific initiatives may also impact our
business. While Arizona has not yet enacted any state specific legislation regarding greenhouse
gas emissions, the California legislature enacted AB 32 and SB 1368 in 2006 to address greenhouse
gas emissions and New Mexico is currently considering proposed legislation to address these issues.
We are monitoring these and other state legislative developments to understand the
extent to which they may affect our business, including our sales into the impacted states or the
ability of our out-of-state power plant participants to continue their
participation in certain coal-fired power plants.

If any emission reduction legislation or regulations are enacted, we will assess our
compliance alternatives, which may include replacement of existing equipment, installation of
additional pollution control equipment, purchase of allowances, retirement or suspension of
operations at certain coal-fired facilities, or other actions. Although associated capital
expenditures or operating costs resulting from greenhouse gas emission regulations or legislation
could be material, we believe that we would be able to recover the costs of these environmental
compliance initiatives through our rates.

Regional Initiative.In 2007, six western states (Arizona, California, New Mexico, Oregon,
Utah and Washington) and two Canadian provinces (British Columbia and Manitoba) entered into an
accord, the Western Climate Initiative (“WCI”), to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles
and certain industries, including utilities. Montana, Quebec and Ontario have also joined WCI.
WCI participants set a goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions 15% below 2005 levels by 2020.
After soliciting public comment, in September 2008 WCI issued the design of a cap-and-trade program
for greenhouse gas emissions. Due in part
to the recent activity at the federal level discussed above, the initiative’s momentum and the
movement toward detailed proposed rules has slowed. On February 2,
2010, Arizona’s Governor issued an executive order stating that
Arizona will continue to be a member of WCI to monitor its
advancements in this area, but it will not implement the WCI regional cap-and-trade program. As a
result, while we continue to monitor the progress of WCI, at the
present time we do not believe it will have a material impact on our operations.





Company Response to Climate Change Initiatives.We have undertaken a number of initiatives to
address emission concerns, including renewable energy procurement and development, promotion of
programs and rates that promote energy conservation, renewable energy use and energy efficiency,
and implementation of an active technology innovation effort to evaluate potential emerging new
technologies. APS currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources including wind,
geothermal, solar and biomass and we are focused on increasing the percentage of our energy that is
produced by renewable resources.

On May 18, 2009, we submitted a comprehensive Climate Change Management Plan to the ACC to
comply with an ACC order that directed APS to undertake a climate management plan, carbon emission
reduction study and commitment and action plan with public input and ACC review. The Climate
Change Management Plan details scientific, legislative and policy issues, potential physical and
financial risks to APS, greenhouse gas emission inventory, APS technology innovation and greenhouse
gas reduction efforts, and our companies’ strategic approach to climate change management.

In January 2008, APS joined the Climate Registry as a Founding Reporter. Founding Reporters
are companies that voluntarily joined the non-profit organization before May 2008 to measure and
report greenhouse gas emissions in a common, accurate and transparent manner consistent across
industry sectors and borders. APS will not participate in the Climate Registry after 2009 because
we will be reporting substantially the same information under the new EPA reporting rule. Pinnacle
West has also reported, and will continue to report, greenhouse gas emissions in its annual
Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website(www.pinnaclewest.com).
In addition to emissions data, the report provides information related to the Company, its approach
to sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance, as well as a copy of our Climate
Change Management Plan discussed above. The information on Pinnacle West’s website, including the
Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into this report.

Climate Change Lawsuits.In February 2008, the Native Village of Kivalina and the City of
Kivalina, Alaska filed a lawsuit in federal court in the Northern District of California against
nine oil companies, fourteen power companies (including Pinnacle West), and a coal company,
alleging that the defendants’ emissions of carbon dioxide contribute to global warming and
constitute a public and private nuisance. The plaintiffs also allege that the effects of global
warming will require the relocation of the village and they are seeking an unspecified amount of
monetary damages. In June 2008, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the action, which were
granted. The plaintiffs filed an appeal with the court in November 2009. We believe the action is
without merit and intend to continue to defend against the claims.

Similar nuisance lawsuits are currently pending in the 2nd and 5th Circuits. In the fall of
2009, the U.S. Courts of Appeals for each of these Circuits reversed lower court decisions and
ruled that the plaintiffs in both cases could bring common law nuisance lawsuits against
coal-burning utilities allegedly contributing to global warming. Both cases, as well as the
Kivalina case, raise political and legal considerations, including whether the courts can or should
be making climate change policy
decisions. We are not a party to either of these two lawsuits, but will monitor these developments
and their potential industry impacts.





EPA Environmental Regulation

Regional Haze Rules.Over a decade ago, the EPA announced regional haze rules to reduce
visibility impairment in national parks and wilderness areas. The rules require states (or, for
sources located on tribal land, the EPA) to determine what pollution control technologies
constitute the “best available retrofit technology” (“BART”) for certain older major stationary
sources. The EPA subsequently issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule, which provides guidelines on
how to perform a BART analysis.

ADEQ is currently undertaking a rulemaking process to address the Clean Air Visibility Rule
requirements. ADEQ’s rules were due to EPA Region 9 in December 2007, but are expected to be
submitted in 2010. As part of the rulemaking process, ADEQ required APS to perform a BART analysis
for Cholla. APS completed a BART analysis for Cholla and submitted its BART recommendations to
ADEQ on February 4, 2008. The recommendations include the installation of certain pollution
control equipment that APS believes constitutes BART. Once APS receives ADEQ’s final determination
as to what constitutes BART for Cholla, we will have five years to complete the installation of the
equipment and to achieve the emission limits established by ADEQ. However, in order to coordinate
with the plant’s other scheduled activities, APS is currently implementing portions of its
recommended plan for Cholla on a voluntary basis. Costs related to the implementation of these
portions of our recommended plan are included in our environmental expenditure estimates (see
“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7).

EPA Region 9 requested that APS, as the operating agent for Four Corners, and SRP, as the
operating agent for the Navajo Plant, perform a BART analysis for Four Corners and the Navajo
Plant, respectively. APS and SRP each submitted an analysis to the EPA concluding that certain
combustion control equipment constitutes BART for these plants. Based on the analyses and comments
received through EPA’s rulemaking process, the EPA will determine what it believes constitutes BART
for each plant.

The EPA recently issued an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPR) seeking public
comments on what constitutes BART for each plant. The public comment period expired in October,
2009, but the EPA has extended the comment period until March 20, 2010 for the Navajo and Hopi
Tribes. We expect that the EPA will issue proposed and final BART determinations for Four Corners
and the Navajo Plant in 2010. The participant owners of Four Corners and the Navajo Plant will
have five years after the EPA issues its final determination to achieve compliance with their
respective BART requirements. In addition, on February 16, 2010, a
group of environmental organizations filed a petition with the
Departments of Interior and Agriculture requesting those agencies to
certify to the EPA that visibility impairment in sixteen national
park and wilderness areas is reasonably attributable to emissions
from Four Corners. If the agencies certify impairment, the EPA is
required to evaluate and, if necessary, determine BART for Four
Corners.

APS’ recommended plan for Four Corners includes the installation of combustion control
equipment, with an estimated cost to APS, based on preliminary engineering estimates and APS’ Four
Corners ownership interest, of approximately $50 million. If the EPA determines that
post-combustion controls are required, APS’ total costs could be up to approximately $422 million
for Four Corners. SRP’s recommended plan for the Navajo Plant includes the installation of
combustion control equipment, with an estimated cost to APS of approximately $6 million based on
APS’ Navajo ownership interest. If the EPA determines that post-combustion controls are required,
APS’ total costs could be up to approximately $93 million for Navajo. The Four Corners and Navajo
Plant participants’ obligations to comply with the EPA’s final BART determinations, coupled with
the financial impact of
future climate change legislation, other environmental regulations and other business
considerations, could jeopardize the economic viability of these plants or the ability of
individual participants to continue their participation in these plants.





In order to coordinate with each plant’s other scheduled activities, the plants are currently
implementing portions of their recommended plans described above on a voluntary basis. APS’ share
of the costs related to the implementation of these portions of the recommended plans are included
in our environmental expenditure estimates (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Expenditures” in Item 7).

Mercury and other Hazardous Air Pollutants.In early 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
D.C. Circuit vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule (“CAMR”), which was adopted by the EPA to regulate
mercury emissions from coal fired power plants. As a result, the law in effect prior to the
adoption of the CAMR became the applicable law, and the EPA is now required to adopt final maximum
achievable control technology emissions (“MACT”) standards. Under a proposed consent decree, the
EPA has agreed to issue final MACT standards for mercury and other hazardous air pollutants by
November 2011. If the consent decree is finalized in its current form, APS will have three years
after the EPA issues its final rule to achieve compliance, which would likely require APS to
install additional pollution control equipment.

APS has installed, and continues to install, certain of the equipment necessary to meet the
anticipated standards. The estimated costs expected to be incurred over the next three years for
such equipment are included in our environmental expenditure estimates (see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Capital Expenditures” in
Item 7).

Federal Implementation Plan (“FIP”).In September 1999, the EPA proposed FIPs to set air
quality standards at certain power plants, including Four Corners and the Navajo Plant, which it
later revised in 2006. The FIP for Four Corners was finalized in 2009, and we do not believe
compliance with its required limits will have a material adverse impact on our financial position,
results of operations or cash flows. The proposed FIP for the Navajo Plant is still pending. APS
cannot currently predict the effect of this proposed FIP on its financial position, results of
operations or cash flows, or whether the proposed FIP will be adopted in its current form.

Coal Combustion Waste.The EPA is expected to issue proposed regulations governing the
handling and disposal of coal combustion byproducts (“CCBs”), such as fly ash and bottom ash. APS
currently disposes of CCBs in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners, and also
sells a portion of its fly ash for beneficial reuse as a constituent in concrete production. The
EPA is evaluating options that include regulation of CCBs under non-hazardous waste standards,
hazardous waste standards, or a combination of both, and a potential phase out of the disposal of
CCBs through the use of ash ponds. A proposed rule is expected during the first quarter of 2010.
We do not know when the EPA will issue a final rule, including required compliance dates. While
APS continues to advocate for the regulation of CCBs as non-hazardous waste, we cannot currently
predict the outcome of the EPA’s actions and whether such actions will have a material adverse
impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Section 114 Request.On April 6, 2009, APS received a request from the EPA under Section 114
of the Clean Air Act seeking detailed information regarding projects at and operations of Four
Corners. This request is part of an enforcement initiative that the EPA has undertaken under the
Clean Air Act. The EPA has taken the position that many utilities have made certain physical or
operational
changes at their plants that should have triggered additional regulatory requirements under
the New Source Review provisions of the Clean Air Act (“NSR”). Other electric utilities have
received and responded to similar Section 114 requests, and several of them have been the subject
of notices of violation and lawsuits by the EPA. APS has responded to the EPA’s request and is
currently unable to predict the timing or content of EPA’s response, if any, or any resulting
actions.





Superfund.The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(“Superfund”) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the
soil, water or air. Those who generated, transported or disposed of hazardous substances at a
contaminated site are among those who are PRPs. PRPs may be strictly, and often are jointly and
severally, liable for clean-up. On September 3, 2003, the EPA advised APS that the EPA considers
APS to be a PRP in the Motorola 52ndStreet Superfund Site, Operable Unit 3 (OU3) in
Phoenix, Arizona. APS has facilities that are within this Superfund site. APS and Pinnacle West
have agreed with the EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within
OU3. In addition, on September 23, 2009, APS agreed with the EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily
assist with the funding and management of the site-wide groundwater remedial investigation and
feasibility study work plan. APS estimates that its costs related to this investigation and study
will be approximately $1.2 million, which is reserved as a liability on its financial statements.
We anticipate incurring additional expenditures in the future, but because the overall
investigation is not complete and ultimate remediation requirements are not yet finalized, at the
present time we cannot accurately estimate our total expenditures.

By letter dated April 25, 2008, the EPA informed APS that it may be a PRP in the Gila River
Indian Reservation Superfund Site in Maricopa County, Arizona. APS, along with three other electric
utility companies, owns a parcel of property on which a transmission pole and a portion of a
transmission line are located. The property abuts the Gila River Indian Community boundary and, at
one time, may have been part of an airfield where crop dusting took place. Currently, the EPA is
only seeking payment from APS and four other PRPs for past cleanup-related costs involving
contamination from the crop dusting. Based upon the total amount of cleanup costs reported by the
EPA in its letter to APS, we do not expect that the resolution of this matter will have a material
adverse impact on APS’ financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Manufactured Gas Plant Sites.Certain properties which APS now owns or which were previously
owned by it or its corporate predecessors were at one time sites of, or sites associated with,
manufactured gas plants. APS is taking action to voluntarily remediate these sites. APS does not
expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of
operations, cash flows or liquidity.

Navajo Nation Environmental Issues

Four Corners and the Navajo Plant are located on the Navajo Reservation and are held under
easements granted by the federal government as well as leases from the Navajo Nation. See “Energy
Sources and Planning — Generation — Coal Fueled Generating Facilities” above for additional
information regarding these plants.

In July 1995, the Navajo Nation enacted the Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control
Act, the Navajo Nation Safe Drinking Water Act and the Navajo Nation Pesticide Act (collectively,
the “Navajo Acts”). The Navajo Acts purport to give the Navajo Nation Environmental Protection
Agency authority to promulgate regulations covering air quality, drinking water and
pesticide activities, including those activities that occur at Four Corners and the Navajo Plant.
On October 17, 1995, the Four Corners participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a
lawsuit in the District Court of the Navajo Nation, Window Rock District, challenging the
applicability of the Navajo Acts as to Four Corners and the Navajo Plant. The Court has stayed
these proceedings pursuant to a request by the parties, and the parties are seeking to negotiate a
settlement.





In April 2000, the Navajo Tribal Council approved operating permit regulations under the
Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act. APS believes the Navajo Nation exceeded
its authority when it adopted the operating permit regulations. On July 12, 2000, the Four Corners
participants and the Navajo Plant participants each filed a petition with the Navajo Supreme Court
for review of these regulations. Those proceedings have been stayed, pending the settlement
negotiations mentioned above. APS cannot currently predict the outcome of this matter.

On May 18, 2005, APS, Salt River Project, as the operating agent for the Navajo Plant, and the
Navajo Nation executed a Voluntary Compliance Agreement to resolve their disputes regarding the
Navajo Nation Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act. As a result of this agreement, APS sought,
and the Courts granted, dismissal of the pending litigation in the Navajo Nation Supreme Court and
the Navajo Nation District Court, to the extent the claims relate to the Clean Air Act. The
agreement does not address or resolve any dispute relating to other Navajo Acts. APS cannot
currently predict the outcome of this matter.

Water Supply

Assured supplies of water are important for APS’ generating plants. At the present time, APS
has adequate water to meet its needs. However, conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in
the southwestern United States have resulted in numerous court actions.

Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APS’ operations have been the subject
of inquiries, claims and legal proceedings, which will require a number of years to resolve. APS
is one of a number of parties in a proceeding, filed March 13, 1975, before the Eleventh Judicial
District Court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a stream system from which water for Four
Corners is derived. An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985, however, provides that if
Four Corners loses a portion of its rights in the adjudication, the Navajo Nation will provide, for
an agreed upon cost, sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss.





APS has also filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River Watershed in Arizona in an
action pending in the Apache County, Arizona, Superior Court, which was originally filed on
September 5, 1985. APS’ groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the geographic area
subject to the adjudication and, therefore, is potentially at issue in the case. APS’ claims
dispute the court’s jurisdiction over its groundwater rights. Alternatively, APS seeks
confirmation of such rights. A number of parties are in the process of settlement negotiations
with respect to certain claims in this matter. Other claims have been identified as ready for
litigation in motions filed with the court. No trial date concerning APS’ water rights claims has
been set in this matter.

Although the above matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS does not expect that the
described litigation will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of
operations, cash flows or liquidity.

The Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has been experiencing drought
conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in
the watershed that supplies the area. APS is continuing to work with area stakeholders to
implement agreements to minimize the effect, if any, on future operations of the plant. The effect
of the drought cannot be fully assessed at this time, and APS cannot predict the ultimate outcome,
if any, of the drought or whether the drought will adversely affect the amount of power available,
or the price thereof, from Four Corners.

BUSINESS OF OTHER SUBSIDIARIES

SunCor

SunCor has been a developer of residential, commercial and industrial real estate projects in
Arizona, Idaho, New Mexico and Utah. Due to the continuing distressed conditions in the real
estate markets, in 2009 SunCor undertook a program to dispose of its homebuilding operations,
master-planned communities, land parcels, commercial assets and golf courses in order to eliminate
its outstanding debt.

At December 31, 2009, SunCor had total assets of about $166 million. At December 31, 2008,
SunCor had total assets of about $547 million. The reduction in SunCor’s assets is primarily due
to 2009 real estate impairment charges of $266 million and 2009 asset sales. SunCor’s remaining
assets consist primarily of land with improvements, commercial buildings, golf courses and other
real estate investments. SunCor’s remaining projects include master-planned communities and
commercial and residential projects. Four of the master-planned communities and the commercial and
residential projects are in Arizona. Other master-planned communities are located in Idaho, New
Mexico and Utah.





SunCor’s operating revenues were approximately $103 million in 2009, $75 million in 2008, and
$190 million in 2007. SunCor’s net loss attributable to common shareholders was approximately $279
million in 2009, which includes $266 million (pre-tax) in real
estate impairment charges. In 2009, income tax benefits related to
SunCor operations were recorded by Pinnacle West in accordance with
an intercompany tax sharing agreement. SunCor’s net loss attributable to common shareholders in 2008 was $26 million, which included a $53
million (pre-tax) real estate impairment charge. SunCor’s net income was approximately $24 million
in 2007. Certain components of SunCor’s real estate sales activities, which are included in the
real estate segment, are required to be reported as discontinued operations on Pinnacle West’s
Consolidated Statements of Income. (See Notes 22 and 23.)

See “Liquidity — Other Subsidiaries — SunCor” in Item 7 for a discussion of SunCor’s long-term
debt, liquidity and capital requirements, and the SunCor-related risk factor in Item 1A for a
discussion of risks facing SunCor.

APSES

APSES provides energy-related products and services (such as energy master planning, energy
use consultation and facility audits, cogeneration analysis and installation, and project
management) with a focus on energy efficiency and renewable energy to commercial and industrial
retail customers in the western United States. APSES also owns and operates district cooling
systems.

APSES had a net loss of $2 million in 2009, a net loss of $1 million in 2008 and a net loss of
$4 million in 2007. At December 31, 2009, APSES had total assets of $74 million.

El Dorado

El Dorado owns minority interests in several energy-related investments and Arizona
community-based ventures. El Dorado’s short-term goal is to prudently realize the value of its
existing investments. On a long-term basis, Pinnacle West may use El Dorado, when appropriate, for
investments that are strategic to the business of generating, distributing and marketing
electricity.

El Dorado had a net loss of $7 million in 2009, a net loss of $10 million in 2008 and a net
loss of $6 million in 2007. Income taxes related to El Dorado are recorded by Pinnacle West. At
December 31, 2009, El Dorado had total assets of $19 million.





OTHER INFORMATION

Pinnacle West, APS and Pinnacle West’s other first-tier subsidiaries are all incorporated in
the State of Arizona. Additional information for each of these companies is provided below:

ApproximateNumber ofPrincipal Executive OfficeYear ofEmployees atAddressIncorporationDecember 31, 2009Pinnacle West400 North Fifth Street19857,200(a)Phoenix, AZ 85004APS400 North Fifth Street19206,800(b)P.O. Box 53999Phoenix, AZ 85072-3999SunCor80 East Rio Salado Parkway1965260Suite 410Tempe, AZ 85281APSES60 E. Rio Salado Parkway199870Suite 1001Tempe, AZ 85281El Dorado400 North Fifth Street1983—Phoenix, AZ 85004

(a)Includes 6,800 APS employees and 400 people employed by Pinnacle West and its
other subsidiaries.(b)Includes employees at jointly-owned generating facilities (approximately 3,300
employees) for which APS serves as the generating facility manager. Approximately
2,000 APS employees are union employees. The collective bargaining agreement with
union employees in the fossil generation and energy delivery business areas expires in
April 2011, and the parties will likely begin negotiating a successor agreement in
early 2011. The agreement with union employees serving as Palo Verde security officers
expires in 2013.

WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION

We
use our websitewww.pinnaclewest.comas a channel of distribution for
material Company information. The following filings are available
free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the SEC: Annual Reports on Form 10-K, definitive proxy statements for our annual
shareholder meetings, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all
amendments to those reports. Our board and committee charters, Code of Ethics and other corporate
governance information is also available on the Pinnacle West website. Pinnacle West will post any
amendments to the Code of Ethics and Ethics Policy and Standards of Business Practices, and any
waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, on its website. The information on
Pinnacle West’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.

You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, by contacting Pinnacle West at
the following address: Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, Office of the Secretary, Station 9068,
P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 (telephone 602-250-3252).







