10-K


d282641d10k.htm

10-K

10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE

ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011

OR

¨

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from            to

Commission file number 1-4174

The Williams
Companies, Inc.

(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)

918-573-2000

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

5.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2033

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d)
of the Act.    Yes

¨

No

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post
such files).    Yes

x

No

¨

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405
of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

¨

Indicate by check mark whether
the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes

¨

No

x

The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the
price at which the common equity was last sold as of the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second quarter was approximately $17,802,985,945.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock outstanding at February 22, 2012 was
592,181,611.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for the Registrant’s 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 17, 2012, are incorporated into Part III, as
specifically set forth in Part III.

THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

FORM 10-K


DEFINITIONS

We use the following oil and gas measurements in this report:

Barrel

— means one barrel of petroleum products that equals 42 U.S. gallons.

Bcf

— means one billion cubic feet.

Bcf/d

— means one billion cubic feet per day.

British Thermal Unit (Btu

) — means a unit of energy needed to raise the temperature of
one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit.

Dekatherms (Dth

) — means a unit
of energy equal to one million Btus.

Mbbls/d

— means one thousand barrels per
day.

Mdth/d

— means one thousand dekatherms per day.

MMBtu —

means one million Btus.

MMcf/d

— means one million cubic feet per day.

MMdth

— means one million dekatherms or approximately one trillion Btus.

MMdth/d

: One million dekatherms per day.

TBtu

— means one trillion Btus.

Other definitions:

FERC

— means Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

Fractionation

— means the process by which a mixed stream of natural gas liquids is separated into its constituent products, such as ethane, propane, and butane.

LNG

— means liquefied natural gas; natural gas which has been liquefied at cryogenic
temperatures.

NGL

— means natural gas liquids; natural gas liquids result
from natural gas processing and crude oil refining and are used as petrochemical feedstocks, heating fuels, and gasoline additives, among other applications.

NGL margins

— means NGL revenues less Btu replacement cost, plant fuel, transportation,
and fractionation.

Throughput

— means the volume of product transported or
passing through a pipeline, plant, terminal, or other facility.


PART I

Item 1.

Business

In this report, Williams (which includes The Williams Companies, Inc. and, unless the context otherwise requires, all of our subsidiaries) is at times referred to in the first person as “we,”
“us” or “our.” We also sometimes refer to Williams as the “Company.”

WEBSITE ACCESS TO REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

We file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy
statements and other documents electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act). You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You may also obtain such reports from the SEC’s Internet
website at www.sec.gov.

Our Internet website is www.williams.com

.

We make available free of charge
through the Investor tab of our Internet website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics for Senior Officers, Board committee charters and the Williams Code of
Business Conduct are also available on our Internet website. We will also provide, free of charge, a copy of any of our corporate documents listed above upon written request to our Corporate Secretary, One Williams Center, Suite 4700, Tulsa,
Oklahoma 74172.

GENERAL

We are an energy infrastructure company focused on connecting North America’s hydrocarbon resource plays to growing
markets for natural gas, NGLs, and olefins. Our operations span from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian oil sands.

Our interstate gas pipeline and domestic midstream interests are largely held through its significant investment in Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ), one of the largest energy master limited
partnerships. We own the general-partner interest and a 70 percent limited-partner interest in WPZ. We also own a Canadian midstream and domestic olefins production business, which processes oil sands off-gas and produces olefins for
petrochemical feedstocks.

We were founded in 1908, originally incorporated under the laws of the state of
Nevada in 1949 and reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1987. Williams’ headquarters are located in Tulsa, Oklahoma, with other major offices in Salt Lake City, Houston, the Four Corners Area and Pennsylvania. Our
telephone number is 918-573-2000.


SPIN-OFF OF WPX

On December 1, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a tax-free spinoff of 100 percent of our
exploration and production business, WPX Energy, Inc. (WPX), to our shareholders. On December 31, 2011, we distributed one share of WPX common stock for every three shares of Williams common stock. As a result, with the exception of the
December 31, 2011 balance sheet which no longer includes WPX, the consolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations and financial position of WPX as discontinued operations.

DIVIDEND GROWTH

We doubled our quarterly dividends from $0.125 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010 to $0.25 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011. Also, consistent with expected growing cash distributions from our
interest in WPZ, we expect continued dividend increases on a quarterly basis. Our Board of Directors has approved a dividend of $0.25875 per share for the first quarter of 2012 and we expect total 2012 dividends to be $1.09 per share, which is
approximately 41 percent higher than 2011.

RECENT EVENTS

In February 2012, Williams Partners completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interests in certain
entities from Delphi Midstream Partners, LLC. These entities primarily own the Laser Gathering System, which is comprised of 33 miles of 16-inch natural gas pipeline and associated gathering facilities in the Marcellus Shale in Susquehanna County,
Pennsylvania, as well as 10 miles of gathering lines in southern New York. This acquisition represents a strategic platform to enhance Williams Partners’ expansion in the Marcellus Shale by providing its customers with both operational flow
assurance and marketing flexibility. (See Results of Operations - Segments, Williams Partners.)


FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

See “

Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements — Note 18

” for information with respect to each segment’s revenues, profits or losses and total assets.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

Substantially
all our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. Our activities in 2011 were primarily operated through the following business segments:

•

Williams Partners

— comprised of our master limited partnership WPZ, which includes gas pipeline and domestic midstream businesses.
The gas pipeline business includes interstate natural gas pipelines and pipeline joint venture investments, and the midstream business provides natural gas gathering, treating and processing services; NGL production, fractionation, storage,
marketing and transportation; deepwater production handling and crude oil transportation services and is comprised of several wholly owned and partially owned subsidiaries and joint venture investments.

•

Midstream Canada & Olefins

— primarily our Canadian midstream and domestic olefins operations. Our Canadian operations
include an oil sands off-gas processing plant located near Ft. McMurray, Alberta, and an NGL/olefin fractionation facility and butylenes/butane splitter (B/B splitter) facility, both of which are located at Redwater, Alberta, which is near Edmonton,
Alberta. In the Gulf of Mexico region, we own a 5/6 interest in and are the operator of an NGL light-feed olefins cracker plant in Geismar, Louisiana. We also own ethane and propane pipelines systems in Louisiana that provide feedstock to the
Geismar plant. Additionally, we own a refinery grade propylene splitter and associated pipeline. Our olefins business also operates an ethylene storage hub at Mont Belvieu using leased third-party underground storage wells.

•

Other

— primarily consists of corporate operations.

This report is organized to reflect this structure. Detailed discussion of each of our business segments follows.

Williams Partners

Gas Pipeline Business

Williams Partners owns and
operates a combined total of approximately 13,700 miles of pipelines with a total annual throughput of approximately 3,000 TBtu of natural gas and peak-day delivery capacity of approximately 13 MMdth of natural gas. Our gas pipeline businesses
consist primarily of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC (Transco) and Northwest Pipeline GP (Northwest Pipeline). Our gas pipeline business also holds interests in joint venture interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline systems
including a 49 percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream). Our gas pipeline businesses contributed revenues of approximately 21 percent, 24 percent and 30 percent of

total revenues

in 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively.

Transco

Transco is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and operates a 9,800-mile natural gas pipeline system
extending from Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey to the New York City metropolitan area. The system serves
customers in Texas and 11 southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina, Washington, D.C., New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.


Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2011, Transco’s system had a mainline delivery capacity of approximately 5.6 MMdth of natural
gas per day from its production areas to its primary markets, including delivery capacity from the mainline to locations on its Mobile Bay Lateral. Using its Leidy Line along with market-area storage and transportation capacity, Transco can deliver
an additional 4.0 MMdth of natural gas per day for a system-wide delivery capacity total of approximately 9.6 MMdth of natural gas per day. Transco’s system includes 45 compressor stations, four underground storage fields, and an LNG storage
facility. Compression facilities at sea level-rated capacity total approximately 1.5 million horsepower.

Transco’s major natural gas transportation customers are public utilities and municipalities that provide service to
residential, commercial, industrial and electric generation end users. Shippers on Transco’s system include public utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct industrial users, electrical generators, gas marketers and producers.
Transco’s firm transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Transco’s business. Additionally, Transco offers storage services and interruptible
transportation services under short-term agreements.

Transco has natural gas storage capacity in four
underground storage fields located on or near its pipeline system or market areas and operates two of these storage fields. Transco also has storage capacity in an LNG storage facility that it owns and operates. The total usable gas storage capacity
available to Transco and its customers in such underground storage fields and LNG storage facility and through storage service contracts is approximately 200 Bcf of natural gas. At December 31, 2011, our customers had stored in our facilities
approximately 164 Bcf of natural gas. In addition, wholly owned subsidiaries of Transco operate and hold a 35 percent ownership interest in Pine Needle LNG Company, LLC, an LNG storage facility with 4 Bcf of storage capacity. Storage capacity
permits Transco’s customers to inject gas into storage during the summer and off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter demand periods.

Transco expansion projects

The pipeline
projects listed below were completed during 2011 or are future significant pipeline projects for which Transco has customer commitments.

Mobile Bay South II

The Mobile Bay South
II Expansion Project involved the addition of compression at Transco’s Station 85 in Choctaw County, Alabama, and modifications to existing facilities at Transco’s Station 83 in Mobile County, Alabama, to allow Transco to provide
additional firm transportation service southbound on the Mobile Bay line from Station 85 to various delivery points. The project was placed into service in May 2011 and provides incremental firm capacity of 380 Mdth/d.

85 North

The 85 North Expansion Project involved an expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas transmission system from Station 85 in Choctaw County, Alabama, to various delivery points as far north as North
Carolina. The first phase was placed into service in July 2010 and provides incremental firm capacity of 90 Mdth/d, and the second phase was placed into service in May 2011 and provides incremental firm capacity of 219 Mdth/d.

Mid-South

The Mid-South Expansion Project involves an expansion of Transco’s mainline from Station 85 in Choctaw County, Alabama, to markets as far downstream as North Carolina. In August 2011, Transco


received approval from the FERC. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $217 million. Transco plans to place the project into service in phases in September 2012 and
June 2013, and it is expected to increase capacity by 225 Mdth/d.

Mid-Atlantic Connector

The Mid-Atlantic Connector Project involves an expansion of Transco’s mainline from an existing
interconnection in North Carolina to markets as far downstream as Maryland. In July 2011, Transco received approval from the FERC. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $55 million. Transco plans to place the project into
service in November 2012, and it is expected to increase capacity by 142 Mdth/d.

Northeast Supply Link

In December 2011, Transco filed an application with the FERC to expand its existing
natural gas transmission system from the Marcellus Shale production region on the Leidy Line to various delivery points in New York and New Jersey. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $341 million. Transco plans to place
the project into service in November 2013, and it is expected to increase capacity by 250 Mdth/d.

Rockaway
Delivery Lateral

The Rockaway Delivery Lateral Project involves the construction of a
three-mile offshore lateral to a distribution system in New York. Transco anticipates filing an application with the FERC in 2012. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $182 million. Transco plans to place the project into
service as early as April 2014, and its capacity is expected to be 647 Mdth/d.

Northeast Connector

The Northeast Connector Project involves expansion of Transco’s existing natural gas
transmission system from southeastern Pennsylvania to the proposed Rockaway Delivery Lateral. Transco anticipates filing an application with the FERC in 2012. The capital cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $39 million. Transco
plans to place the project into service as early as April 2014, and its capacity is expected to be 100 Mdth/d.

Northwest Pipeline

Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas transmission company that owns and operates a natural gas pipeline system extending from the San Juan basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern
Colorado through Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington to a point on the Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest Pipeline provides services for markets in California, Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming,
Idaho, Oregon, and Washington directly or indirectly through interconnections with other pipelines.

Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2011, Northwest Pipeline’s system, having long-term firm transportation agreements including
peaking service of approximately 3.8 MMdth/d, was composed of approximately 3,900 miles of mainline and lateral transmission pipelines and 41 transmission compressor stations having a combined sea level-rated capacity of approximately 477,000
horsepower.


Northwest Pipeline transports and stores natural gas for a broad mix of
customers, including local natural gas distribution companies, municipal utilities, direct industrial users, electric power generators and natural gas marketers and producers. Northwest Pipeline’s firm transportation and storage contracts are
generally long-term contracts with various expiration dates and account for the major portion of Northwest Pipeline’s business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline offers interruptible and short-term firm transportation service.

Northwest Pipeline owns a one-third interest in the Jackson Prairie underground storage facility in Washington and
contracts with a third party for storage service in the Clay basin underground field in Utah. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates an LNG storage facility in Washington. These storage facilities have an aggregate working gas storage capacity of
13 Bcf of natural gas, which is substantially utilized for third-party natural gas, and firm delivery capability of approximately 700 MMcf/d enable Northwest Pipeline to provide storage services to its customers and to balance daily receipts and
deliveries.

Northwest Pipeline expansion project

North and South Seattle Lateral Delivery Expansions

Northwest Pipeline has executed agreements with a customer to expand the North and South Seattle laterals
and provide additional lateral capacity of approximately 84 Mdth/d and 74 Mdth/d, respectively. The total estimated cost of the project is between $28 and $30 million. North Seattle is currently targeted for service in fall 2012 and South Seattle is
currently targeted for service in fall 2013.

Gulfstream

Gulfstream is a natural gas pipeline system extending from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida. Williams
Partners owns, through a subsidiary, a 49 percent interest in Gulfstream while we own an additional 1 percent interest through a subsidiary in Other. Spectra Energy Corporation, through its subsidiary, and Spectra Energy Partners, LP, own the other
50 percent interest. Williams Partners shares operating responsibilities for Gulfstream with Spectra Energy Corporation.

Gulfstream Phase V

The Gulfstream
Phase V expansion involved the addition of compression to provide 35 Mdth/d of incremental firm transportation capacity. The expansion was placed in service in April 2011.

Midstream Business

Williams Partners’
midstream business, one of the nation’s largest natural gas gatherers and processors, has primary service areas concentrated in major producing basins in Colorado, New Mexico, Wyoming, the Gulf of Mexico, and Pennsylvania. The primary
businesses are: (1) natural gas gathering, treating, and processing; (2) NGL fractionation, storage and transportation; and (3) oil transportation. These fall within the middle of the process of taking raw natural gas and crude oil
from the producing fields to the consumer.

Key variables for this business will continue to be:

•

Retaining and attracting customers by continuing to provide reliable services;

•

Revenue growth associated with additional infrastructure either completed or currently under construction;

•

Disciplined growth in core service areas and new step-out areas;

•

Prices impacting commodity-based activities.

The midstream business revenue contributed approximately 75 percent, 72 percent, and 65 percent of Williams
Partners’ revenues in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.


Gathering, processing and treating

Williams Partners’ gathering systems receive natural gas from producers’ oil and natural gas wells and gather
these volumes to gas processing, treating or redelivery facilities. Typically, natural gas, in its raw form, is not acceptable for transportation in major interstate natural gas pipelines or for commercial use as a fuel. Williams Partners’
treating facilities remove water vapor, carbon dioxide, and other contaminants and collect condensate, but do not extract NGLs. Williams Partners’ is generally paid a fee based on the volume of natural gas gathered and/or treated, generally
measured in the BTU heating value.

In addition, natural gas contains various amounts of NGLs, which generally
have a higher value when separated from the natural gas stream. Our processing plants extract the NGLs in addition to removing water vapor, carbon dioxide, and other contaminants. NGL products include:

•

Ethane, primarily used in the petrochemical industry as a feedstock for ethylene production, one of the basic building blocks for plastics;

•

Propane, used for heating, fuel and as a petrochemical feedstock in the production of ethylene and propylene, another building block for
petrochemical-based products such as carpets, packing materials, and molded plastic parts;

•

Normal butane, iso-butane and natural gasoline, primarily used by the refining industry as blending stocks for motor gasoline or as a petrochemical
feedstock.

Our gas processing services generate revenues primarily from the following three
types of contracts:

•

Fee-based: We are paid a fee based on the volume of natural gas processed, generally measured in the BTU heating value. Our customers are entitled
to the NGLs produced in connection with this type of processing agreement. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 59 percent of the NGL production volumes were under fee-based contracts.

•

Keep-whole: Under keep-whole contracts, we (1) process natural gas produced by customers, (2) retain some or all of the extracted NGLs as
compensation for our services, (3) replace the BTU content of the retained NGLs that were extracted during processing with natural gas purchases, also known as shrink replacement gas and (4) deliver an equivalent BTU content of natural gas
for customers at the plant outlet. NGLs we retain in connection with this type of processing agreement are referred to as our equity NGL production. Under these agreements, we have commodity exposure to the difference between NGL prices and natural
gas prices. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 38 percent of the NGL production volumes were under keep-whole contracts.

•

Percent-of-Liquids: Under percent-of-liquids processing contracts, we (1) process natural gas produced by customers, (2) deliver to
customers an agreed-upon percentage of the extracted NGLs, (3) retain a portion of the extracted NGLs as compensation for our services and (4) deliver natural gas to customers at the plant outlet. Under this type of contract, we are not
required to replace the BTU content of the retained NGLs that were extracted during processing, and are therefore only exposed to NGL price movements. NGLs we retain in connection with this type of processing agreement are also referred to as our
equity NGL production. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 3 percent of the NGL production volumes were under percent-of-liquids contracts.

Our gathering and processing agreements have terms ranging from month-to-month to the life of the producing lease.
Generally, our gathering and processing agreements are long-term agreements.

Demand for gas gathering and
processing services is dependent on producers’ drilling activities, which is impacted by the strength of the economy, natural gas prices, and the resulting demand for natural gas by manufacturing and industrial companies and consumers. Williams
Partners’ gas gathering and processing customers are generally natural gas producers who have proved and/or producing natural gas fields in the areas


surrounding its infrastructure. During 2011, Williams Partners’ facilities gathered and processed gas for approximately 210 gas gathering and processing customers. Williams Partners’
top 5 gathering and processing customers accounted for approximately 50 percent of our gathering and processing revenue.

Demand for our equity NGLs is affected by economic conditions and the resulting demand from industries using these commodities to produce petrochemical-based products such as plastics, carpets, packing
materials and blending stocks for motor gasoline and the demand from consumers using these commodities for heating and fuel. NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production, which has been shifting away from
the more expensive crude-based feedstocks.

Geographically, the midstream natural gas assets are positioned to
maximize commercial and operational synergies with our other assets. For example, most of the offshore gathering and processing assets attach and process or condition natural gas supplies delivered to the Transco pipeline. Our San Juan basin,
southwest Wyoming and Piceance systems are capable of delivering residue gas volumes into Northwest Pipeline’s interstate system in addition to third-party interstate systems. Our gathering system in Pennsylvania delivers residue gas volumes
into Transco’s pipeline in addition to third-party interstate systems.

Williams Partners owns and
operates gas gathering, processing and treating assets within the states of Wyoming, Colorado, New Mexico, and Pennsylvania. We also own and operate gas gathering and processing assets and pipelines primarily within the onshore, offshore shelf, and
deepwater areas in and around the Gulf Coast states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama.

The
following table summarizes our significant operated natural gas gathering assets as of December 31, 2011:

(1)

Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the equity method investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

(2)

In the first quarter of 2012, our Springville gathering pipeline was put into service, initially providing an optional takeaway for 0.3 Bcf/d of gas
gathered on our system in northeast Pennsylvania. Also in the first quarter of 2012, 0.3 Bcf/d of capacity was added from the Laser gathering system acquisition.


In addition we own and operate several natural gas treating facilities in
New Mexico, Colorado, Texas and Louisiana which bring natural gas to specifications allowable by major interstate pipelines. At our Milagro treating facility, we also use gas-driven turbines to produce approximately 60 mega-watts per day of
electricity which we primarily sell into the local electrical grid.

The following table summarizes our
significant operated natural gas processing facilities as of December 31, 2011:

(1)

Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the equity method investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

(2)

Our Lybrook plant has been idled as of January 2012. Gas previously processed at Lybrook has been redirected to our Ignacio plant.

Crude oil transportation and production handling assets

In addition to our natural gas assets, we own and operate four deepwater crude oil pipelines and own production platforms
serving the deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico. Our crude oil transportation revenues are typically volumetric-based fee arrangements. However, a portion of our marketing revenues are recognized from purchase and sale arrangements whereby the oil that
we transport is purchased and sold as a function of the same index-based price. Our offshore floating production platforms provide centralized services to deepwater producers such as compression, separation, production handling, water removal and
pipeline landings. Revenue sources have historically included a combination of fixed-fee, volumetric-based fee and cost reimbursement arrangements. Fixed fees associated with the resident production at our Devils Tower facility are recognized on a
units-of-production basis.

The following table summarizes our significant crude oil transportation pipelines as of
December 31, 2011:


The following table summarizes our production handling platforms as of
December 31, 2011:

(1)

Statistics reflect 100 percent of the assets from the equity method investments that we operate, however our financial statements report equity
method income from these investments based on our equity ownership percentage.

NGL
marketing services

In addition to our gathering and processing operations, we market NGL products to a
wide range of users in the energy and petrochemical industries. The NGL marketing business transports and markets equity NGLs from the production at our processing plants, and also markets NGLs on behalf of third-party NGL producers, including some
of our fee-based processing customers, and the NGL volumes owned by Discovery Producer Services LLC (Discovery). The NGL marketing business bears the risk of price changes in these NGL volumes while they are being transported to final sales delivery
points. In order to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase products in the spot market for resale. Other than a long-term agreement to sell our equity NGLs transported on Overland Pass Pipeline to ONEOK Hydrocarbon L.P., the majority of
sales are based on supply contracts of one year or less in duration. Sales to ONEOK Hydrocarbon L.P., accounted for 17 percent, 15 percent, and 9 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

Other operations

We own interests in and/or operate NGL fractionation and storage assets. These assets include a 50 percent interest in an NGL fractionation facility near Conway, Kansas, with capacity of slightly more
than 100 Mbbls/d and a 31.45 percent interest in another fractionation facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, with a capacity of 60 Mbbls/d. We also own approximately 20 million barrels of NGL storage capacity in central Kansas near Conway.

We own approximately 115 miles of pipelines in the Houston Shipping Channel area which transport a variety of
products including ethane, propane and other products used in the petrochemical industry.

We also own a 14.6
percent equity interest in Aux Sable Liquid Products L.P. (Aux Sable) and its Channahon, Illinois, gas processing and NGL fractionation facility near Chicago. The facility is capable of processing up to 2.1 Bcf/d of natural gas from the
Alliance Pipeline system and fractionating approximately 102 Mbbls/d of extracted liquids into NGL products. Additionally, in June 2011, Aux Sable acquired an 80 MMcf/d gas conditioning plant and a 12-inch, 83-mile gas pipeline infrastructure
in North Dakota that provides additional NGLs to Channahon from the Bakken Shale in the Williston basin.

Operated
Equity Investments

Discovery

We own a 60 percent equity interest in and operate the facilities of Discovery. Discovery’s assets include a
600 MMcf/d cryogenic natural gas processing plant near Larose, Louisiana, a 32 Mbbls/d NGL fractionator plant near Paradis, Louisiana, and an offshore natural gas gathering and transportation system in the Gulf of Mexico.


Laurel Mountain

We own a 51 percent interest in a joint venture, Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC (Laurel Mountain), in the Marcellus Shale
located in western Pennsylvania. Laurel Mountain’s assets, which we operate, include a gathering system of nearly 1,400 miles of pipeline with a capacity of approximately 230 MMcf/d. Laurel Mountain has a long-term, dedicated, volumetric-based
fee agreement, with some exposure to natural gas prices, to gather the anchor customer’s production in the western Pennsylvania area of the Marcellus Shale. Construction is ongoing for numerous new pipeline segments and compressor stations, the
largest of which is our Shamrock compressor station. The Shamrock compressor station currently has a capacity of 60 MMcf/d and is expandable to 350 MMcf/d.

Overland Pass Pipeline

We operate and own a 50 percent
ownership interest in Overland Pass Pipeline Company LLC (OPPL). OPPL includes a 760-mile NGL pipeline from Opal, Wyoming, to the Mid-Continent NGL market center in Conway, Kansas, along with 150- and 125-mile extensions into the Piceance and
Denver-Joules basins in Colorado, respectively. Our equity NGL volumes from our two Wyoming plants and our Willow Creek facility in Colorado are dedicated for transport on OPPL under a long-term transportation agreement. We plan to participate in
the construction of a pipeline connection and capacity expansions expected to be complete in early 2013, to increase the pipeline’s capacity to the maximum of 255 Mbbls/d, to accommodate new volumes coming from the Bakken Shale in the Williston
basin.

Operating statistics

The following table summarizes our significant operating statistics for Midstream:

(1)

Excludes volumes associated with partially owned assets such as our Discovery and Laurel Mountain investments that are not consolidated for
financial reporting purposes.

(2)

Annual average Mbbls/d.

Midstream Canada & Olefins

The Midstream Canada & Olefins segment consists of our Canadian midstream business and our domestic olefins business. The segment contributed revenues of approximately 17 percent, 16 percent and
14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.

Midstream Canada

Our Canadian operations include an oil sands off-gas processing plant located near Ft. McMurray,
Alberta, and an NGL/olefin fractionation facility and butylene/butane splitter (B/B splitter) facility, both of which are located at Redwater, Alberta, which is near Edmonton, Alberta. We operate the Ft. McMurray area processing plant, while another
party operates the Redwater facilities on our behalf. The B/B splitter was completed and placed into service in August 2010. Our Ft. McMurray area facilities extract liquids from the off-gas produced by a third-party oil sands bitumen upgrading
process. Our arrangement with the third-party upgrader is a “keep-whole” type where we remove a mix of NGLs and olefins from the off-gas and return the equivalent heating


value to the third-party upgrader in the form of natural gas. We extract, fractionate, treat, store, terminal and sell the propane, propylene, normal butane (butane), isobutane/butylene
(butylene) and condensate recovered from this process. The commodity price exposure of this asset is the spread between the price for natural gas and the NGL and olefin products we produce. We continue to be the only NGL/olefins fractionator in
western Canada and the only treater/processor of oil sands upgrader off-gas. Our extraction of liquids from upgrader off-gas streams allows the upgraders to burn cleaner natural gas streams and reduces their overall air emissions.

The Ft. McMurray extraction plant has processing capacity of 121 MMcf/d with the ability to recover in excess of
17 Mbbls/d of olefin and NGL products. Our Redwater fractionator has a liquids handling capacity of 18 Mbbls/d. The B/B splitter, which has a production capacity of 3.7 Mbbls/d of butylene and 3.7 Mbbls/d of butane, further fractionates the
butylene/butane mix produced at our Redwater fractionators into separate butylene and butane products, which receive higher values and are in greater demand. We also purchase small volumes of olefin/NGLs mixes from third-party gas processors,
fractionate the olefins and NGLs at our Redwater plant and sell the resulting products. Our products are sold within Canada and the United States.

Canadian expansion projects

Construction is well underway on a 261-mile, 12-inch diameter Canadian pipeline which will transport recovered NGLs and
olefins from our processing plant in Ft. McMurray to our Redwater fractionation facility. The pipeline, which will have an initial capacity of 43 Mbbls/d that can be increased to an ultimate capacity of 125 Mbbls/d with additional pump
stations, will have sufficient capacity to transport additional NGLs and olefins from our existing operations as well as other NGLs and olefins produced from oil sands off-gas. The project is being constructed using cash previously generated from
Canadian and other international projects. We anticipate an in-service date in second quarter of 2012.

Construction began in the fourth quarter of 2011 on the ethane recovery project that will allow us to recover
ethane/ethylene mix from our operations that process off-gas from the Alberta oil sands. We are modifying our oil sands off-gas extraction plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, and constructing a de-ethanizer at our Redwater fractionation facility. Our
de-ethanizer, which will have a production capacity of 17,000 bbls/d, will enable us to initially process approximately 10,000 bbls/d of ethane/ethylene mix. We have signed a long-term contract to provide the ethane/ethylene mix to a third-party
customer. We expect the project to be constructed using cash previously generated from Canadian and other international projects and we expect to complete the expansions and begin producing ethane/ethylene mix in the first quarter of 2013.

Domestic olefins

In the Gulf of Mexico region, we own a 5/6 interest in and are the operator of an NGL light-feed olefins cracker in
Geismar, Louisiana, with a total production capacity of 1.35 billion pounds of ethylene and 90 million pounds of propylene per year. Our feedstocks for the cracker are ethane and propane; as a result, these assets are primarily exposed to
the price spread between ethane and propane, and ethylene and propylene, respectively. Ethane and propane are available for purchase from third parties and from affiliates. We own ethane and propane pipeline systems in Louisiana that provide
feedstock transportation to the Geismar plant and other third-party crackers. Additionally, we own a refinery grade propylene splitter and associated pipeline with a production capacity of approximately 500 million pounds per year of propylene.
At our propylene splitter, we purchase refinery grade propylene and fractionate it into polymer grade propylene and propane; as a result this asset is exposed to the price spread between those commodities. As a merchant producer of ethylene and
propylene, our product sales are to customers for use in making plastics and other downstream petrochemical products destined for both domestic and export markets. Our olefins business also operates an ethylene storage hub at Mont Belvieu using
leased third-party underground storage wells.

We own and operate 63 miles of pipeline in the Houston Ship
Channel area which transport ammonia, tertiary butyl alcohol and other industrial gases for third parties. We also own a tunnel crossing pipeline under the Houston Ship Channel which contains multiple pipelines which are leased to third parties.


We also market olefin and NGL products to a wide range of users in the
energy and petrochemical industries. In order to meet sales contract obligations, we may purchase products for resale.

Domestic olefins expansion project

We
are currently in the detailed engineering and procurement phase of an expansion of our Geismar olefins production facility which will increase the facility’s ethylene production capacity by 600 million pounds per year to a new annual
capacity of 1.95 billion pounds. The additional capacity will be wholly owned by us. We expect to complete the expansion in the latter part of 2013.

Operating statistics

The following table summarizes our
significant operating statistics for Midstream Canada & Olefins:

Additional Business Segment Information

Our ongoing business segments are accounted for as continuing operations in the accompanying financial statements and
notes to financial statements included in Part II.

Operations related to certain assets in
“Discontinued Operations” have been reclassified from their traditional business segment to “Discontinued Operations” in the accompanying financial statements and notes to financial statements included in Part II.

We perform certain management, legal, financial, tax, consultation, information technology, administrative
and other services for our subsidiaries.

Our principal sources of cash are from dividends, distributions and
advances from our subsidiaries, investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered, and, if needed, external financings, sales of master limited partnership units to the public, and net proceeds from asset sales. The amount of dividends
available to us from subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary’s earnings and operating capital requirements. The terms of certain subsidiaries’ borrowing arrangements may limit the transfer of funds to us under certain conditions.

We believe that we have adequate sources and availability of raw materials and commodities for existing and
anticipated business needs. Our interstate pipeline systems are all regulated in various ways resulting in the financial return on the investments made in the systems being limited to standards permitted by the regulatory agencies. Each of the
pipeline systems has ongoing capital requirements for efficiency and mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also necessitating periodic capital outlays.


REGULATORY MATTERS

Williams Partners

Gas Pipeline Business.

Williams Partners gas pipeline’s interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA) and under the
Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, and, as such, its rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, its accounting, and the extension, enlargement or abandonment of its jurisdictional facilities, among other things, are
subject to regulation. Each gas pipeline company holds certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC authorizing ownership and operation of all pipelines, facilities and properties for which certificates are required under the
NGA. Each gas pipeline company is also subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, and the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, and the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Jobs Creation Act of 2011, which regulates
safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas transmission facilities. FERC Standards of Conduct govern how our interstate pipelines communicate and do business with gas marketing employees.
Among other things, the Standards of Conduct require that interstate pipelines not operate their systems to preferentially benefit gas marketing functions.

Each of our interstate natural gas pipeline companies establishes its rates primarily through the FERC’s ratemaking process. Key determinants in the ratemaking process are:

•

Costs of providing service, including depreciation expense;

•

Allowed rate of return, including the equity component of the capital structure and related income taxes;

•

Contract and volume throughput assumptions.

The allowed rate of return is determined in each rate case. Rate design and the allocation of costs between the
reservation and commodity rates also impact profitability. As a result of these proceedings, certain revenues previously collected may be subject to refund.

Pipeline Integrity Regulations

For Williams Partners’
gas pipeline business, Transco and Northwest Pipeline have developed an Integrity Management Plan that we believe meets the United States Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) final rule that was
issued pursuant to the requirements of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. The rule requires gas pipeline operators to develop an integrity management program for transmission pipelines that could affect high consequence areas in the event
of pipeline failure. The Integrity Management Program includes a baseline assessment plan along with periodic reassessments to be completed within required timeframes. In meeting the integrity regulations, Transco and Northwest Pipeline have
identified high consequence areas and developed baseline assessment plans. Transco and Northwest Pipeline are on schedule to complete the required assessments within required timeframes. Currently, Transco and Northwest Pipeline estimate the cost to
complete the required initial assessments through 2012 and associated remediation will be primarily capital in nature and range between $25 million and $40 million for Transco and between $30 million and $35 million for Northwest Pipeline. Ongoing
periodic reassessments and initial assessments of any new high consequence areas will be completed within the timeframes required by the rule. Management considers the costs associated with compliance with the rule to be prudent costs incurred in
the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through Transco’s and Northwest Pipeline’s rates.

Midstream Business.

For Williams Partners’ midstream business, onshore gathering is subject to regulation by states in which we operate and offshore gathering is subject to the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA). Of the states where the midstream business gathers gas, currently only Texas actively regulates gathering activities. Texas regulates gathering primarily through complaint mechanisms under which the state


commission may resolve disputes involving an individual gathering arrangement. Although offshore gathering facilities are not subject to the NGA, offshore transmission pipelines are subject to
the NGA, and in recent years the FERC has taken a broad view of offshore transmission, finding many shallow-water pipelines to be jurisdictional transmission. Most offshore gathering facilities are subject to the OCSLA, which provides in part that
outer continental shelf pipelines “must provide open and nondiscriminatory access to both owner and nonowner shippers.”

The midstream business also owns interests in and operates two offshore transmission pipelines that are regulated by the FERC because they are deemed to transport gas in interstate commerce. Black Marlin
Pipeline Company provides transportation service for offshore Texas production in the High Island area and redelivers that gas to intrastate pipeline interconnects near Texas City. Discovery provides transportation service for offshore Louisiana
production from the South Timbalier, Grand Isle, Ewing Bank and Green Canyon (deepwater) areas to an onshore processing facility and downstream interconnect points with major interstate pipelines. FERC regulation requires all terms and conditions of
service, including the rates charged, to be filed with and approved by the FERC before any changes can go into effect.

The midstream business owns a 50 percent interest in, and is the operator of OPPL, which is an interstate natural gas liquids pipeline regulated by the FERC pursuant to the Interstate Commerce Act. OPPL
provides transportation service pursuant to tariffs filed with the FERC.

Midstream Canada & Olefins

Our Canadian assets are regulated by the Energy Resources Conservation Board (ERCB) and Alberta
Environment. The regulatory system for the Alberta oil and gas industry incorporates a large measure of self-regulation, providing that licensed operators are held responsible for ensuring that their operations are conducted in accordance with all
provincial regulatory requirements. For situations in which noncompliance with the applicable regulations is at issue, the ERCB and Alberta Environment have implemented an enforcement process with escalating consequences.

Our domestic olefins assets are regulated by the Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality (LQEQ), the Texas Railroad
Commission, and various other state and federal entities regarding our liquids pipelines.

See Note 16 of
our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on our regulatory matters.


ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Our operations are subject to federal environmental laws and regulations as well as the state, local and tribal laws and
regulations adopted by the jurisdictions in which we operate. We could incur liability to governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of pollutants into the air, soil, or water, as well as liability for cleanup costs. Materials could be
released into the environment in several ways including, but not limited to:

•

Leakage from gathering systems, underground gas storage caverns, pipelines, processing or treating facilities, transportation facilities and storage
tanks;

•

Damage to facilities resulting from accidents during normal operations;

•

Damages to onshore and offshore equipment and facilities resulting from storm events or natural disasters;

•

Blowouts, cratering and explosions.

In addition, we may be liable for environmental damage caused by former owners or operators of our properties.

We believe compliance with current environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or current competitive position. However, environmental
laws and regulations could affect our business in various ways from time to time, including incurring capital and maintenance expenditures, fines and penalties, and creating the need to seek relief from the FERC for rate increases to recover the
costs of certain capital expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses.

For additional information
regarding the potential impact of federal, state, tribal or local regulatory measures on our business and specific environmental issues, please refer to “Risk Factors –

We are subject to risks associated with climate change

and

– Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures and could exceed current expectations,”

“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Environmental” and “Environmental Matters” in Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


COMPETITION

Williams Partners

For Williams Partners’ gas pipeline business, the natural gas industry has undergone significant change over the past two decades. A highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural gas and
increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity, have developed. More recently large reserves of shale gas have been discovered, in many cases much closer to major market
centers. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used more efficiently and competition among pipeline suppliers to attach growing supply to market has increased.

Local distribution company (LDC) and electric industry restructuring by states have affected pipeline markets.
Pipeline operators are increasingly challenged to accommodate the flexibility demanded by customers and allowed under tariffs, but the changes implemented at the state level have not required renegotiation of LDC contracts. The state plans have in
some cases discouraged LDCs from signing long-term contracts for new capacity.

States have developed new
plans that require utilities to encourage energy saving measures and diversify their energy supplies to include renewable sources. This has lowered the growth of residential gas demand. However, due to relatively low prices of natural gas, demand
for electric power generation has increased.

These factors have increased the risk that customers will reduce
their contractual commitments for pipeline capacity from traditional producing areas. Future utilization of pipeline capacity will depend on these factors and others impacting both U.S. and global demand for natural gas.

In Williams Partners’ midstream business, we face regional competition with varying competitive factors in each
basin. Our gathering and processing business competes with other midstream companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines, producers and independent gatherers and processors. We primarily compete with five to ten companies across all basins in which
we provide services. Numerous factors impact any given customer’s choice of a gathering or processing services provider, including rate, location, term, reliability, timeliness of services to be provided, pressure obligations and contract
structure. We also compete in recruiting and retaining skilled employees.

Midstream Canada & Olefins

Ethylene and propylene markets, and therefore our olefins business, compete in a worldwide marketplace.
Due to our NGL feedstock position at Geismar, we expect to benefit from the lower cost position in North America versus other crude-based feedstocks worldwide. The majority of North American olefins producers have significant downstream
petrochemical manufacturing for plastics and other products. As such, they buy or sell ethylene and propylene as required. We operate as a merchant seller of olefins with no downstream manufacturing, and therefore can be either a supplier or a
competitor at any given time to these other companies depending on their market balances. Generally, we are viewed primarily as a supplier to these companies and not as a direct competitor. We compete on the basis of service, price and availability
of the products we produce.

Our Canadian midstream facilities continue to be the only NGL/olefins fractionator
in western Canada and the only treater/processor of oil sands upgrader off-gas. Our extraction of liquids from the upgrader off-gas stream allows the upgraders to burn cleaner natural gas streams and reduce their overall air emissions. Our Canadian
midstream business competes for the sale of its products with traditional Canadian midstream companies on the basis of operational expertise, price, service offerings and availability of the products we produce.


EMPLOYEES

At February 1, 2012, we had approximately 4,293 full-time employees.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

See Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for amounts of revenues during the last three fiscal
years from external customers attributable to the United States and all foreign countries. Also see Note 18 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information relating to long-lived assets during the last three fiscal years,
located in the United States and all foreign countries.


Item 1A.

Risk Factors

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

FOR PURPOSES OF THE
“SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF

THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995

Certain matters contained in this report include “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management’s plans and objectives
for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995.

All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that
address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as
“anticipates,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “continues,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “intends,”
“might,” “goals,” “objectives,” “targets,” “planned,” “potential,” “projects,” “scheduled,” “will” or other similar expressions. These forward-looking
statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:

•

Amounts and nature of future capital expenditures;

•

Expansion and growth of our business and operations;

•

Financial condition and liquidity;

•

Business strategy;

•

Cash flow from operations or results of operations;

•

Seasonality of certain business components;

•

Natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil prices and demand.

Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or
results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from
results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:

•

Availability of supplies, market demand, volatility of prices, and the availability and cost of capital;

•

Inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange, and general economic conditions (including future disruptions and volatility in the
global credit markets and the impact of these events on our customers and suppliers);

•

The strength and financial resources of our competitors;

•

Ability to acquire new businesses and assets and integrate those operations and assets into our existing businesses, as well as expand our
facilities;

•

Development of alternative energy sources;

•

The impact of operational and development hazards;

•

Costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government regulations (including safety and climate change regulation and changes in natural gas
production from exploration and production areas that we serve), environmental liabilities, litigation, and rate proceedings;


•

Our costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans;

•

Changes in maintenance and construction costs;

•

Changes in the current geopolitical situation;

•

Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties;

•

Risks related to strategy and financing, including restrictions stemming from our debt agreements, future changes in our credit ratings and the
availability and cost of credit;

•

Risks associated with future weather conditions;

•

Acts of terrorism, including cybersecurity threats and related disruptions;

•

Additional risks described in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in
any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the
forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.

In addition to causing our actual
results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our
intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise.

Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in
addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors are described in the following section.


RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information in this report. Each of
these factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities.

Risks Related to the Spin-Off

The separation of our exploration and
production business may not achieve its intended results.

The separation of our exploration and
production business, completed on December 31, 2011, may not achieve its intended results and could have an adverse effect on us due to a number of factors. For example, the separation has significantly reduced the scope and scale of our
business, we may not be able to grow as expected and we may incur proportionately higher costs to operate.

If there is
a determination that the spin-off of WPX stock to our stockholders is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, representations, or undertakings underlying an IRS private letter ruling or a tax opinion are incorrect or for any
other reason, then we and our stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities.

In
connection with our original separation plan that called for an initial public offering (IPO) of stock of WPX and a subsequent spin-off of our remaining shares of WPX to our stockholders, we obtained a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) and an opinion of our outside tax advisor, to the effect that the distribution by us of WPX shares to our stockholders, and any related restructuring transaction undertaken by us, would not result in recognition for U.S. federal income
tax purposes, of income, gain, or loss to us or our stockholders under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code), except for cash payments made to our stockholders in lieu of fractional shares of WPX common
stock. In addition, we received an opinion from our outside tax advisor to the effect that the spin-off pursuant to our revised separation plan which was ultimately consummated on December 31, 2011, which did not involve an IPO of WPX shares,
would not result in the recognition, for federal income tax purposes, of income, gain, or loss to us or our stockholders under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, except for cash payments made to our stockholders in lieu of fractional
shares of WPX. The private letter ruling and opinion have relied on or will rely on certain facts, representations, and undertakings from us and WPX regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other
matters. If any of these facts, representations, or undertakings are, or become, incorrect or are not otherwise satisfied, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of us or WPX after the spin-off, or if the IRS
disagrees with any such facts and representations upon audit, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the private letter ruling or the opinion of our tax advisor and could be subject to significant income tax liabilities.

The spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend
requirements that we did not assume in our agreements with WPX.

The spin-off is subject to review
under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. A court could deem the spin-off or certain internal restructuring transactions undertaken by us in connection with the separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Fraudulent
conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value
when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. A court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon us, which could adversely affect
our financial condition and our results of operations. Whether a transaction is a fraudulent conveyance or transfer will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. Under the separation and distribution agreement between us and
WPX, from and after the spin-off, each of WPX and we are responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which each owns and operates. Although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations
not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the separation and


distribution agreement, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between the parties, and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to WPX,
particularly if WPX were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform the subject allocated obligations.

Risks Related to
our Business

The long-term financial condition of our natural gas pipeline and midstream businesses is dependent on
the continued availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that we access, demand for those supplies in our traditional markets, and the prices of and market demand for natural gas.

The development of the additional natural gas reserves that are essential for our gas pipeline and midstream businesses to
thrive requires significant capital expenditures by others for exploration and development drilling and the installation of production, gathering, storage, transportation and other facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered to
our pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, including environmental regulations, or the lack of available capital for these projects could adversely affect the development and production of additional reserves, as well
as gathering, storage, pipeline transportation and import and export of natural gas supplies, adversely impacting our ability to fill the capacities of our gathering, transportation and processing facilities.

Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to our pipeline and gathering systems will also
naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. Additionally, the competition
for natural gas supplies to serve other markets could reduce the amount of natural gas supply for our customers. Accordingly, to maintain or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of natural gas transported on or gathered through our
pipeline systems and cash flows associated with the gathering and transportation of natural gas, our customers must compete with others to obtain adequate supplies of natural gas. In addition, if natural gas prices in the supply basins connected to
our pipeline systems are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, our ability to compete with other transporters may be negatively impacted on a short-term basis, as well as with respect to our long-term recontracting activities.
If new supplies of natural gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply areas, if natural gas supplies are diverted to serve other markets, if development in new supply basins where we do not have significant
gathering or pipeline systems reduces demand for our services, or if environmental regulators restrict new natural gas drilling, the overall volume of natural gas transported, gathered and stored on our system would decline, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, new LNG import facilities built near our markets could result in less demand for our gathering and transportation facilities.

Significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and demand and cause a termination of our long-term
transportation and storage contracts or a reduction in throughput on the gas pipeline systems.

Higher
natural gas prices over the long term could result in a decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in long-term transportation and storage contracts or throughput on our gas pipeline systems. Also, lower natural gas prices over the long
term could result in a decline in the production of natural gas resulting in reduced contracts or throughput on the gas pipeline systems. As a result, significant prolonged changes in natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on our
gas pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Prices for NGLs, natural gas and
other commodities, including oil, are volatile and this volatility could adversely affect our financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to maintain our existing businesses.

Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the value of certain components of our businesses depend
primarily upon the prices of NGLs, natural gas, oil, or other commodities, and the differences between


prices of these commodities. Price volatility can impact both the amount we receive for our products and services and the volume of products and services we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash
flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Any of the foregoing can also have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

The markets for NGLs, natural gas, oil and other commodities are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in
prices might result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including:

•

Worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas, NGLs, oil, petroleum, and related commodities;

•

Turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions;

•

The activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;

•

Terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets;

•

Weather conditions;

•

The level of consumer demand;

•

The price and availability of other types of fuels;

•

The availability of pipeline capacity;

•

Supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation disruptions;

•

The price and quantity of foreign imports of natural gas and oil;

•

Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;

•

Volatility in the natural gas and oil markets;

•

The overall economic environment;

•

The credit of participants in the markets where products are bought and sold;

•

The adoption of regulations or legislation relating to climate change and changes in natural gas production from exploration and production areas
that we serve.

We might not be able to successfully manage the risks associated with selling and
marketing products in the wholesale energy markets.

Our portfolio of derivative and other energy
contracts may consist of wholesale contracts to buy and sell commodities, including contracts for natural gas, NGLs and other commodities that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash throughout the United States. If the values of these
contracts change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate or cannot manage, it could negatively affect our results of operations. In the past, certain marketing and trading companies have experienced severe financial problems due to price
volatility in the energy commodity markets. In certain instances this volatility has caused companies to be unable to deliver energy commodities that they had guaranteed under contract. If such a delivery failure were to occur in one of our
contracts, we might incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to, or received from, counterparties. In addition, in our businesses, we often extend credit to our counterparties. Despite performing credit analysis prior
to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we might not be able to collect amounts owed to us. If the counterparty to such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral that secures our counterparty’s obligation is inadequate, we
will suffer a loss. Downturns in the economy or disruptions in the global credit markets could cause more of our counterparties to fail to perform than we expect.


Certain of our gas pipeline services are subject to long-term, fixed-price contracts
that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts.

Our gas pipelines provide some services pursuant to long-term, fixed price contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under such contracts will exceed the revenues they collect for their
services. Although most of the services are priced at cost-based rates that are subject to adjustment in rate cases, under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a
“negotiated rate” that may be above or below the FERC regulated cost-based rate for that service. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs that could be produced by inflation
or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services.

We may not be able to maintain
or replace expiring natural gas transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis.

Our primary exposure to market risk for our gas pipelines occurs at the time the terms of their existing transportation and storage contracts expire and are subject to termination. Upon expiration of the
terms, we may not be able to extend contracts with existing customers to obtain replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term basis.

The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including:

•

The level of existing and new competition to deliver natural gas to our markets;

•

The growth in demand for natural gas in our markets;

•

Whether the market will continue to support long-term firm contracts;

•

Whether our business strategy continues to be successful;

•

The level of competition for natural gas supplies in the production basins serving us;

•

The effects of state regulation on customer contracting practices.

Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our risk management and measurement systems
and hedging activities might not be effective and could increase the volatility of our results.

The
systems we use to quantify commodity price risk associated with our businesses might not always be followed or might not always be effective. Further, such systems do not in themselves manage risk, particularly risks outside of our control, and
adverse changes in energy commodity market prices, volatility, adverse correlation of commodity prices, the liquidity of markets, changes in interest rates and other risks discussed in this report might still adversely affect our earnings, cash
flows and balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks have been identified.

In an effort
to manage our financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered and may in the future enter into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have
used and may in the future use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can
adequately address all risks present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or performance risk. Therefore,
unhedged risks will always continue to exist. While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk within guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows and
results of operations could be impacted by counterparty default.


Our use of hedging arrangements through which we attempt to reduce the
economic risk of our participation in commodity markets could result in increased volatility of our reported results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of derivatives that qualify as hedges under generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP), to the extent that such hedges are not fully effective in offsetting changes to the value of the hedged commodity, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify or have not been designated as hedges under GAAP, must
be recorded in our income. This creates the risk of volatility in earnings even if no economic impact to us has occurred during the applicable period.

The impact of changes in market prices for NGLs and natural gas on the average prices paid or received by us may be reduced based on the level of our hedging activities. These hedging arrangements may
limit or enhance our margins if the market prices for NGLs or natural gas were to change substantially from the price established by the hedges. In addition, our hedging arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances,
including instances in which:

•

Volumes are less than expected;

•

The hedging instrument is not perfectly effective in mitigating the risk being hedged;

•

The counterparties to our hedging arrangements fail to honor their financial commitments.

The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse
impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities.

In July 2010, federal legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Act) was enacted. The Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements for
derivative transactions, including oil and gas hedging transactions. Among other things, the Act provides for the creation of position limits for certain derivatives transactions, as well as requiring certain transactions to be cleared on exchanges
for which cash collateral will be required. The final impact of the Act on our hedging activities is uncertain at this time due to the requirement that the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) promulgate rules and
regulations implementing the new legislation within 360 days from the date of enactment. These new rules and regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts or reduce
the availability of derivatives. Although we believe the derivative contracts that we enter into should not be impacted by position limits and should be exempt from the requirement to clear transactions through a central exchange or to post
collateral, the impact upon our businesses will depend on the outcome of the implementing regulations adopted by the CFTC.

Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC or similar rules that may be adopted by other regulatory bodies, we might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for our
commodities hedging transactions under circumstances in which we do not currently post cash collateral. Posting of such additional cash collateral could impact liquidity and reduce our cash available for capital expenditures. A requirement to post
cash collateral could therefore reduce our ability to execute hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect cash flows. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of the Act and regulations, our results of operations may become
more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable.

We depend on certain key customers for a significant portion
of our revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of any contracted volumes could result in a decline in our business.

Our gas pipeline and midstream businesses rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of their revenues. Although some of these customers are subject to long-term contracts, extensions
or replacements of these contracts may not be renegotiated on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all, or even a portion of the revenues from natural gas, NGLs or contracted volumes, as applicable, supplied by these customers, as a result of
competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, unless we are able to
acquire comparable volumes from other sources.


We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and our credit
risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk.

We are subject to the risk of loss
resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, our customers are rated investment grade, are otherwise considered creditworthy or are required to make
prepayments or provide security to satisfy credit concerns. However, our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk. We cannot predict to what extent our business would be impacted by
deteriorating conditions in the economy, including declines in our customers’ and counterparties’ creditworthiness. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties, unanticipated
deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting increase in nonpayment and/or nonperformance by them could cause us to write-down or write-off doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results
in the periods in which they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

Our industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results.

We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses, and additional competitors may enter our markets. Other
companies with which we compete may be able to respond more quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or refurbishment of their facilities than we can. In addition,
current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or have greater financial resources than we do, which could affect our ability to make investments or acquisitions. Similarly, a highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural
gas and increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity, have developed. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used more efficiently, and peaking and storage services are
increasingly effective substitutes for annual pipeline capacity. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
results of operations, and cash flows.

Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions
for which they may not be adequately insured.

There are operational risks associated with gathering,
transporting, storage, processing and treating of natural gas and the fractionation and storage of NGLs, including:

•

Hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions, and other natural disasters;

•

Aging infrastructure and mechanical problems;

•

Damages to pipelines and pipeline blockages or other pipeline interruptions;

•

Uncontrolled releases of natural gas (including sour gas), NGLs, brine or industrial chemicals;

•

Collapse or failure of storage caverns;

•

Operator error;

•

Damage caused by third-party activity, such as operation of construction equipment;

•

Pollution and other environmental risks;

•

Fires, explosions, craterings and blowouts;

•

Risks related to truck and rail loading and unloading;

•

Risks related to operating in a marine environment;

•

Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of other energy companies.


Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries,
significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses, and only
at levels we believe to be appropriate. The location of certain segments of our facilities in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from
these risks. In spite of our precautions, an event such as those described above could cause considerable harm to people or property, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the
event is not fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss of service available to our customers.

Our costs of testing, maintaining or repairing our facilities may exceed our expectations and the FERC or competition in our markets may not allow us to recover such costs in the rates we charge for
our services.

We have experienced unexpected leaks or ruptures on one of our gas pipeline systems,
including a rupture near Appomattox, Virginia in 2008 and a rupture near Sweet Water, Alabama in 2011. We could experience additional unexpected leaks or ruptures on our gas pipeline systems, or be required by regulatory authorities to test or
undertake modifications to our systems that could result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations if the costs of testing, maintaining or repairing our facilities exceed current expectations and the
FERC or competition in our markets do not allow us to recover such costs in the rates we charge for our service. For example, in response to a recent third-party pipeline rupture, PHMSA issued an Advisory Bulletin which, among other things,
advises pipeline operators that if they are relying on design, construction, inspection, testing, or other data to determine the pressures at which their pipelines should operate, the records of that data must be traceable, verifiable and
complete. More recently, the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 became law and under this statute PHMSA may issue additional regulations addressing such records. Locating such records and, in the absence of any
such records, verifying maximum pressures through physical testing or modifying or replacing facilities to meet the demands of such pressures, could significantly increase our costs. Additionally, failure to locate such records or verify maximum
pressures could result in reductions of allowable operating pressures, which would reduce available capacity on our pipelines.

We do not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of our
insurers to satisfy our claims.

We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our business,
including environmental accidents. We do not maintain insurance in the type and amount to cover all possible risks of loss.

We currently maintain excess liability insurance with limits of $610 million per occurrence and in the annual aggregate with $2 million per occurrence deductible. This insurance covers us, our
subsidiaries, and certain of our affiliates for legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury or property damage, including resulting loss of use to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for sudden
and accidental pollution liability for full limits, with the first $135 million of insurance also providing gradual pollution liability coverage for natural gas and NGL operations.

Although we maintain property insurance on certain physical assets that we own, lease or are responsible to insure, the
policy may not cover the full replacement cost of all damaged assets or the entire amount of business interruption loss we may experience. In addition, certain perils may be excluded from coverage or sub-limited. We may not be able to maintain or
obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. We may elect to self insure a portion of our risks. We do not insure our onshore underground pipelines for physical damage, except at certain locations such as river crossings
and compressor stations. Offshore assets are covered for property damage when loss is due to a named windstorm event and coverage for loss caused by a named windstorm is significantly sub-limited and subject to a large deductible. All of our
insurance is subject to deductibles. If a significant accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured it could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.


In addition, to the insurance coverage described above, we are a member of
Oil Insurance Limited (OIL), an energy industry mutual insurance company, which provides coverage for damage to our property. As an insured of OIL, we share in the losses among other OIL members even if our property is not damaged.

Furthermore, any insurance company that provides coverage to us may experience negative developments that could impair
their ability to pay any of our claims. As a result, we could be exposed to greater losses than anticipated and may have to obtain replacement insurance, if available, at a greater cost.

The occurrence of any risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to repay our debt.

Execution of our capital
projects subjects us to construction risks, increases in labor costs and materials, and other risks that may adversely affect financial results.

The growth in our gas pipeline and midstream businesses may be dependent upon the construction of new natural gas gathering, transportation, compression, processing or treating pipelines and facilities or
natural gas liquids fractionation or storage facilities, as well as the expansion of existing facilities. Construction or expansion of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, including:

•

The ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;

•

The availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects;

•

Potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding
or increase the anticipated cost of the project;

•

Impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;

•

The ability to construct projects within estimated costs, including the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of
equipment, materials, labor, or other factors beyond our control, that may be material;

•

The ability to access capital markets to fund construction projects.

Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a
result, new facilities may not achieve expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Our costs and funding obligations for our defined benefit pension plans and costs for our other postretirement benefit plans are affected by factors beyond our control.

We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S. employees and other post-retirement
benefit plans covering certain eligible participants. The timing and amount of our funding requirements under the defined benefit pension plans depend upon a number of factors we control, including changes to pension plan benefits, as well as
factors outside of our control, such as asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase our funding requirements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded limited
partnership, Williams Partners L.P. As such, this subsidiary’s operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations.

One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of WPZ, a publicly traded limited partnership. This subsidiary may be
deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations with respect to WPZ as the general partner and to the limited partners of WPZ. Activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to other persons or entities typically involve a higher standard of
conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may


involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interests is found to exist. Our control of the general partner of WPZ may increase the possibility of claims of breach of
fiduciary duties, including claims brought due to conflicts of interest (including conflicts of interest that may arise between WPZ, on the one hand, and its general partner and that general partner’s affiliates, including us, on the other
hand). Any liability resulting from such claims could be material.

Potential changes in accounting standards might
cause us to revise our financial results and disclosures in the future, which might change the way analysts measure our business or financial performance.

Regulators and legislators continue to take a renewed look at accounting practices, financial disclosures, and
companies’ relationships with their independent public accounting firms. It remains unclear what new laws or regulations will be adopted, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact that any such new laws or regulations could have. In addition,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC or FERC could enact new accounting standards or FERC could issue rules that might impact how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Any significant change in
accounting standards or disclosure requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.

Our investments and projects located outside of the United States expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates,
political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our international projects.

We currently own and might acquire and/or dispose of material energy-related investments and projects outside the United States. The economic, political and legal conditions and regulatory environment in
the countries in which we have interests or in which we might pursue acquisition or investment opportunities present risks that are different from or greater than those in the United States. These risks include delays in construction and
interruption of business, as well as risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, including with respect to the prices we realize for the
commodities we produce and sell. The uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign countries in which we develop or acquire projects or make investments could make it more difficult to obtain nonrecourse project financing or other
financing on suitable terms, could adversely affect the ability of certain customers to honor their obligations with respect to such projects or investments and could impair our ability to enforce our rights under agreements relating to such
projects or investments.

Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present currency exchange
rate and convertibility, inflation and repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert to
U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in another.
In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service obligations. We may or may not put contracts in place designed to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks. We have some exposures
that are not hedged and which could result in losses or volatility in our results of operations.

Our operating results
for certain components of our business might fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.

Revenues
from certain components of our business can have seasonal characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future might fluctuate
substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our expectations depending on the nature and location of our facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of our natural gas transportation
arrangements relative to demand created by unusual weather patterns.


We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which
could disrupt our operations.

We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have
been constructed. As such, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. In those instances in which we do not own the land on which our facilities are located, we obtain the rights to construct and operate our
pipelines and gathering systems on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. In addition, some of our facilities cross Native American lands pursuant to rights-of-way of limited term. We may not have the
right of eminent domain over land owned by Native American tribes. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and
financial condition and cash flows.

Risks Related to Strategy and Financing

Our debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may limit our access to credit and adversely affect our ability to operate our
business.

Certain of our debt agreements contain various covenants that restrict or limit, among other
things, our ability and our material subsidiaries ability to grant certain liens to support indebtedness, our ability to merge or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets, enter into certain affiliate transactions, make certain
distributions during the continuation of an event of default, and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt. In addition, our debt agreements contain, and those we enter into in the future may contain, financial covenants and other
limitations with which we will need to comply. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in, expand or pursue our business activities and prevent us from engaging in certain
transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic
conditions deteriorate, our current assumptions about future economic conditions turn out to be incorrect or unexpected events occur, our ability to comply with these covenants may be significantly impaired.

Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements could result in events of default. Upon the occurrence of
such an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under a particular facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments, if any, to extend further credit. Certain payment defaults or an
acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt agreement. Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or
acceleration of a single debt instrument. If an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default, and the lenders under the affected debt agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding to us, we may not
have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding under such debt agreements. For more information regarding our debt agreements, please read “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity.”

Our
ability to repay, extend or refinance our existing debt obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on our operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business
and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain future credit will also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit generally. If we
are unable to meet our debt service obligations or obtain future credit on favorable terms, if at all, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain
financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all.


Our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of WPZ

Our partnership interest in WPZ is one of our largest cash-generating assets. Therefore, our cash flow
is heavily dependent upon the ability of WPZ to make distributions to its partners. A significant decline in WPZ’s earnings and/or distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us.

Difficult conditions in the global capital markets, the credit markets and the economy in general could negatively affect our
business and results of operations.

Our businesses may be negatively impacted by adverse economic
conditions or future disruptions in global financial markets. Included among these potential negative impacts are reduced energy demand and lower prices for our products and services, increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us by our
customers and a reduction in our credit ratings (either due to tighter rating standards or the negative impacts described above), which could reduce our access to credit markets, raise the cost of such access or require us to provide additional
collateral to our counterparties. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive
pressures.

A downgrade of our credit ratings could impact our liquidity, access to capital and our costs of doing
business, and independent third parties outside our control determine our credit ratings.

A downgrade
of our credit ratings might increase our cost of borrowing and could require us to post collateral with third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. Our ability to access capital markets could also be limited by a downgrade of our
credit ratings and other disruptions. Such disruptions could include:

•

Economic downturns;

•

Deteriorating capital market conditions;

•

Declining market prices for natural gas, NGLs, oil and other commodities;

•

Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or those of other energy companies;

•

The overall health of the energy industry, including the bankruptcy or insolvency of other companies.

Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. The analysis includes a number of
criteria including, but not limited to, business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes
to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold investments in the rated entity. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies, and no assurance can be given that
we will maintain our current credit ratings or that our senior unsecured debt rating will be raised to investment grade by all of the credit rating agencies.

Our acquisition attempts may not be successful or may result in completed acquisitions that do not perform as anticipated.

We have made and may continue to make acquisitions of businesses and properties. However, suitable acquisition candidates
may not continue to be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. The following are some of the risks associated with acquisitions, including any completed or future acquisitions:

•

Some of the acquired businesses or properties may not produce revenues, earnings or cash flow at anticipated levels or could have environmental,
permitting or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate;

•

We may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us or that exceed our estimates;

•

We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully and realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits in a timely manner,
which could result in substantial costs and delays or other operationally, technical or financial problems;

•

Acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert resources and make it difficult to maintain our current business
standards, controls and procedures.


Risks Related to Regulations that Affect Our Industry

Our gas pipelines could be subject to penalties and fines if they fail to comply with laws governing our businesses.

Our gas pipeline’s transportation and storage operations are regulated by numerous governmental
agencies including the FERC, the EPA and PHMSA. Should our gas pipelines fail to comply with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations and orders, they could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC
has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation and under the recently enacted Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011, PHMSA has civil
penalty authority up to $200,000 per day (from the prior $100,000), with a maximum of $2 million for any related series of violations (from the prior $1 million). Any material penalties or fines under these or other statutes, rules, regulations or
orders could have a material adverse impact on our gas pipeline business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

The natural gas sales, transportation and storage operations of our gas pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC, which could have an adverse impact on their ability to establish
transportation and storage rates that would allow them to recover the full cost of operating their respective pipelines, including a reasonable rate of return.

The natural gas sales, transmission and storage operations of the gas pipelines are subject to federal, state and local
regulatory authorities. Specifically, their interstate pipeline transportation and storage service is subject to regulation by the FERC. The federal regulation extends to such matters as:

•

Transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce;

•

Rates, operating terms, and conditions of service, including initiation and discontinuation of service;

•

The types of services the gas pipelines may offer their customers;

•

Certification and construction of new interstate pipelines and storage facilities;

•

Acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of existing interstate pipelines and storage facilities;

•

Accounts and records;

•

Depreciation and amortization policies;

•

Relationships with affiliated companies who are involved in marketing functions of the natural gas business;

•

Market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of natural gas.

Under the NGA, FERC has authority to regulate providers of natural gas pipeline transportation and storage services in
interstate commerce, and such providers may only charge rates that have been determined to be just and reasonable by FERC. In addition, FERC prohibits providers from unduly preferring or unreasonably discriminating against any person with respect to
pipeline rates or terms and conditions of service.

Regulatory actions in these areas can affect our business
in many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues, decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and otherwise altering the profitability of our pipeline business.

Unlike other interstate pipelines that own facilities in the offshore Gulf of Mexico, Transco charges its transportation
customers a separate fee to access its offshore facilities. The separate charge is referred to as an “IT feeder” charge. The “IT feeder” rate is charged only when gas is actually transported on the facilities and typically it is
paid by producers or marketers. Because the “IT feeder” rate is typically paid by producers and marketers, it generally results in netback prices to producers that are slightly lower than the netbacks realized by producers transporting on
other interstate pipelines. This rate design disparity can result in producers bypassing Transco’s offshore facilities in favor of alternative transportation facilities.


The rates, terms and conditions for interstate gas pipeline services are set
forth in FERC-approved tariffs. Any successful complaint or protest against the rates of the gas pipelines could have an adverse impact on their revenues associated with providing transportation services. In addition, there is a risk that rates set
by FERC in future rate cases filed by the gas pipelines will be inadequate to recover increases in operating costs or to sustain an adequate return on capital investments. There is also the risk that higher rates would cause their customers to look
for alternative ways to transport natural gas.

We are subject to risks associated with climate change.

There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) may be linked to climate change.
Climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing our products and services, the
demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which we operate, all of which can create financial risks.

In addition, legislative and regulatory responses related to GHGs and climate change create the potential for financial
risk. The U.S. Congress and certain states have for some time been considering various forms of legislation related to GHG emissions. There have also been international efforts seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of GHGs. In
addition, increased public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate GHG emissions.

Numerous states and other jurisdictions have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce GHGs. In 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a final determination that six
GHGs are a threat to public safety and welfare. In 2011, the EPA implemented permitting for new and/or modified large sources of GHG emissions through the existing Prevention of Signification Deterioration permitting program. Additional direct
regulation of GHG emissions in our industry may be implemented under other Clean Air Act programs, including the New Source Performance Standards program.

The recent actions of the EPA and the passage of any federal or state climate change laws or regulations could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install
new emission controls on our facilities, and (iii) administer and manage any GHG emissions program. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory
requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our
cost of and access to capital. Legislation or regulations that may be adopted to address climate change could also affect the markets for our products by making our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy.

Our operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose us
to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures and could exceed current expectations.

Substantial
costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues related to environmental laws and regulations are inherent in the gathering, transportation, storage, processing and treating of natural gas and fractionation of NGLs, and as a result, we may
be required to make substantial expenditures that could exceed current expectations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, Native American, and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, the discharge of
materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. These laws include:

•

Clean Air Act (CAA), and analogous state laws, which impose obligations related to air emissions;

•

Clean Water Act (CWA), and analogous state laws, which regulate discharge of wastewaters and storm water from our facilities to state and federal
waters, including wetlands;


•

Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), and analogous state laws, which regulate the cleanup of hazardous
substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal;

•

Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and analogous state laws, which impose requirements for the handling and discharge of solid and
hazardous waste from our facilities.

•

Endangered Species Act (ESA), and analogous state laws, which seek to ensure that activities do not jeopardize endangered or threatened animals,
fish and plant species, nor destroy or modify the critical habitat of such species;

•

Oil Pollution Act (OPA) of 1990, which requires oil storage facilities and vessels to submit plans to the federal government detailing how they will
respond to large discharges, regulates petroleum storage tanks and related equipment, and imposes liability for spills by responsible parties.

Various governmental authorities, including the EPA, the U.S. Department of the Interior, the Bureau of Indian Affairs
and analogous state agencies and tribal governments, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws,
regulations, and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, and the issuance of injunctions
limiting or preventing some or all of our operations, delays in granting permits and cancellation of leases.

There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business, some of which may be
material, due to our handling of the products as they are gathered, transported, processed, fractionated and stored, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations, and waste and waste disposal practices, and the prior use
of flow meters containing mercury. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws, for the remediation of contaminated
areas and in connection with spills or releases of materials associated with natural gas, oil and wastes on, under, or from our properties and facilities. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline and gathering
systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for
personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing or oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk
that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. Our
insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is made against us.

In March 2010, the EPA announced its National Enforcement Initiatives for 2011 to 2013, which includes the addition of “Energy Extraction Activities” to its enforcement priorities list. To
address its concerns regarding the pollution risks raised by new techniques for oil and gas extraction and coal mining, the EPA is developing an initiative to ensure that energy extraction activities are complying with federal environmental
requirements. We cannot predict what the results of this initiative would be, or whether federal, state, or local laws or regulations will be enacted in this area. If regulations were imposed related to oil and gas extraction, the volumes of natural
gas that we transport could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected.

Our business
may be adversely affected by changed regulations and increased costs due to stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting from noncompliance with required operating or other regulatory permits. Also, we might not be able to obtain
or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for our operations. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or


if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation or construction of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse
consequences to our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

We are generally
responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain
acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required
to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses.

Hydraulic fracturing is exempt from federal regulation pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (except when the
fracturing fluids or propping agents contain diesel fuels). However, public concerns have been raised related to its potential environmental impact. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations to more closely regulate hydraulic
fracturing have been considered or implemented. Legislation to further regulate hydraulic fracturing has been proposed in Congress. The U.S. Department of Interior has announced plans to formalize obligations for disclosure of chemicals associated
with hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. The results of a pending EPA investigation by a committee of the House of Representatives and two recent reports by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Shale Gas Subcommittee could lead to further
restrictions on hydraulic fracturing. The EPA has proposed regulations under the CAA regarding certain emissions from the hydraulic fracturing of oil and natural gas wells and announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the CWA
regarding wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other gas production. In addition, some state and local authorities have considered or imposed new laws and rules related to hydraulic fracturing, including additional permit
requirements, operational restrictions, disclosure obligations and temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing in certain jurisdictions or in environmentally sensitive areas. We cannot predict whether any additional federal, state or local
laws or regulations will be enacted in this area and if so, what their provisions would be. If additional levels of reporting, regulation or permitting moratoria were required or imposed related to hydraulic fracturing, the volumes of natural gas
and other products that we transport, gather, process and treat could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected.

We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to environmental conditions based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and
regulations. If the interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our assumptions and expectations may also change, and any new capital costs incurred to comply with such changes may not be recoverable under
our regulatory rate structure or our customer contracts. In addition, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely affect our products and activities, including fractionation, storage and transportation, as well as waste management and air
emissions. For instance, federal and state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, any of which could affect our profitability.

If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs or to treat natural gas, our revenues could be
adversely affected.

We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery
options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our customers. Because we do not own these third-party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If these pipelines or other facilities were to
become temporarily or permanently unavailable for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage to the pipelines or facilities, reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity, increased credit requirements or rates
charged by such pipelines or facilities or other causes, we and our customers would have reduced capacity to transport, store or deliver natural gas or NGL products to end use markets or to receive deliveries of mixed NGLs, thereby reducing our
revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key


pipeline interconnect or in operations on third-party pipelines or facilities that would cause a material reduction in volumes transported on our pipelines or our gathering systems or processed,
fractionated, treated or stored at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.

Legal and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the energy industry have adversely affected our business and may continue to do so. The operations of our businesses might also be
adversely affected by changes in government regulations or in their interpretations or implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or customers.

Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in increased regulations being either proposed or
implemented. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition,
we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation or increased permitting
requirements. Current legal proceedings or other matters against us, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals, challenges to our permits by citizen groups and similar matters, might result in adverse decisions against us. The
result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance. Such scrutiny has also resulted in various inquiries, investigations and court proceedings in which we
are a named defendant. Both the shippers on our pipelines and regulators have rights to challenge the rates we charge under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge could materially affect our results of operations.

In addition, existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws, regulations and permitting requirements
might be adopted or become applicable to us, our facilities our customers, our vendors or our service providers, and future changes in laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows. For example, various legislative and regulatory reforms associated with pipeline safety and integrity have been proposed recently, including the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 enacted on
January 3, 2012. This law will result in the promulgation of new regulations to be administered by the PHMSA affecting the operations of our gas pipelines including, but not limited to, requirements relating to pipeline inspection, installation
of additional valves and other equipment and records verification. These reforms and any future changes in related laws and regulations could significantly increase our costs.

The 2010 drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico and potentially more stringent regulations and permitting requirements on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could adversely affect our operating
results, financial condition and cash flows.

The drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico (in force
from May to October 2010) impacted our production handling, gathering and transportation operations through production delays which reduced volumes of natural gas and oil delivered to our platform, pipeline and gathering facilities in 2010. In
addition, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement continues to develop more stringent drilling and permitting requirements for producers in the Gulf of Mexico which could cause delays in production or new drilling. A
significant decline or delay in production volumes in the Gulf of Mexico could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows through reduced production handling activities, gathering and transportation volumes,
processing activities or other midstream services.


Risks Related to Employees, Outsourcing of Noncore Support Activities, and Technology

Institutional knowledge residing with current employees nearing retirement eligibility or with employees going to
WPX as part of the separation of our exploration and production business might not be adequately preserved.

In certain areas of our business, institutional knowledge resides with employees who have many years of service. As these employees reach retirement age, or with the loss of employees as part of the
separation of our exploration and production business, we may not be able to replace them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In addition, we may not be able to retain or recruit other qualified individuals, and our efforts at
knowledge transfer could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become unavailable to us.

Failure of our service providers or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our ability to conduct our
business.

Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing relationships. A deterioration in
the timeliness or quality of the services performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be able to conduct our
business. The expiration of such agreements or the transition of services between providers could lead to similar losses of institutional knowledge or disruptions.

Certain of our accounting and information technology services are currently provided by an outsourcing provider from
service centers outside of the United States. The economic and political conditions in certain countries from which our outsourcing providers may provide services to us present similar risks of business operations located outside of the United
States, including risks of interruption of business, war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are greater than in the United States.

Risks Related to Weather, other Natural Phenomena and Business Disruption

Our assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena.

Our assets and operations, including those located offshore, can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes,
landslides, tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme temperatures, making it more difficult for us to realize the historic rates of return associated with these assets and operations. Insurance may be
inadequate, and in some instances, we have been unable to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms, or insurance has not been available at all. A significant disruption in operations or a significant liability for which we were not fully
insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.

Our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions. To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate
change or demand is impacted by regulations associated with climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading either to increased investment or decreased revenues.

Acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows.

Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be targets of terrorist activities
that could disrupt our business or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport or distribute natural gas, NGLs or other commodities. Acts of terrorism as well as events
occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs.


Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity
threats, and related disruptions.

We rely on our information technology infrastructure to process,
transmit and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our assets. While we believe that we maintain appropriate information security policies and protocols, we face cybersecurity and other security threats to our
information technology infrastructure, which could include threats to our operational and safety systems that operate our pipeline, plants and assets. We could face unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure,
including coordinated attacks from hackers, whether state-sponsored groups, “hacktivists,” or private individuals. The age, operating systems or condition of our current information technology infrastructure and software assets and our
ability to maintain and upgrade such assets could affect our ability to resist cybersecurity threats. We could also face attempts to gain access to information related to our assets through attempts to obtain unauthorized access by targeting acts of
deception against individuals with legitimate access, physical location or information otherwise known as “social engineering.”

Our information technology infrastructure is critical to the efficient operation of our business and essential to our ability to perform day-to-day operations. Breaches in our information technology
infrastructure or physical facilities, or other disruptions, could result in damage to our assets, safety incidents, damage to the environment, potential liability or the loss of contracts, and have a material adverse effect on our operations,
financial position and results of operations.

Item 1B.

Unresolved Staff Comments

Not applicable.

Item 2.

Properties

Please read “Business” for a description of the location and general character of our principal physical
properties. We generally own facilities, although a substantial portion of our pipeline and gathering facilities is constructed and maintained pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses or consents on and across properties owned by
others.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

Environmental

Certain reportable legal proceedings
involving governmental authorities under federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment are described below. While it is not possible for us to predict the final outcome of the proceedings which are still
pending, we do not anticipate a material effect on our consolidated financial position if we receive an unfavorable outcome in any one or more of such proceedings.

In September 2007, the EPA requested, and Transco later provided, information regarding natural gas compressor stations
in the states of Mississippi and Alabama as part of the EPA’s investigation of Transco’s compliance with the Clean Air Act. On March 28, 2008, the EPA issued notices of violation alleging violations of Clean Air Act requirements at
these compressor stations. Transco met with the EPA in May 2008 and submitted a response denying the allegations in June 2008. In May 2011, Transco provided additional information to the EPA pertaining to these compressor stations in response to a
request they had made in February 2011. In August 2010, the EPA requested, and Transco provided, similar information for a compressor station in Maryland.

In February 2012, the New Mexico Environmental Department and Williams Four Corner LLC settled alleged violations of the New Mexico Air Quality Act at five separate facilities that we own or operate for
$164,000.


In September 2011, the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment
proposed a penalty of $301,000 for alleged violations of the Colorado Clean Water Act related to excavation work being done for our Crawford Trail Pipeline. Under a settlement reached with the agency in November 2011, we agreed to pay $44,300 and
undertake certain supplemental environmental projects valued at $230,700.

Other

The additional information called for by this item is provided in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included under Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements of this report, which information is incorporated by reference into this item.

Item 4.

Mine Safety Disclosures

Not applicable.


Executive Officers of the Registrant

The name, age, period of service, and title of each of our executive officers as of February 24, 2012, are listed
below.

Alan S. Armstrong

Director, Chief Executive Officer, and President

Age: 49

Position held since January 2011.

From February 2002 until January 2011 he was Senior Vice President-Midstream and acted as President of our midstream
business. From 1999 to February 2002, Mr. Armstrong was Vice President, Gathering and Processing for our midstream business. From 1998 to 1999 he was Vice President, Commercial Development for Midstream. Mr. Armstrong serves as Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Williams Partners GP LLC, the general partner of WPZ, where he was Senior Vice President-Midstream from February 2010, and Chief Operating Officer and a director from February 2005.

Randall L. Barnard

Senior Vice President, Gas Pipeline

Age: 53

Position held since February 2011.

Mr. Barnard acts as President of our gas pipeline business. Mr. Barnard served as Vice President of Natural Gas
Market Development from July 2010 to February 2011. From April 2002 to July 2010, Mr. Barnard was Senior Vice President of Operations and Technical Service for our gas pipeline business. From September 2000 to April 2002, he served as
President of Williams International, Vice President and General Manager, and a director and from 2001 to 2002 Chief Executive Officer of Apco Oil and Gas International Inc., formerly Apco Argentina. From June 1997 to September 2000, Mr. Barnard was
General Manager of Williams International in Venezuela. Mr. Barnard is a director and Senior Vice President, Gas Pipeline, of Williams Partners GP LLC, the general partner of WPZ, a Director of the Board of the Gas Technology Institute and Vice
Chair of the Common Ground Alliance.

Donald R. Chappel

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Age: 60

Position held since April 2003.

Prior to joining us, Mr. Chappel held various financial, administrative and operational leadership positions.
Mr. Chappel also serves as Chief Financial Officer and a director of Williams Partners GP LLC, the general partner of WPZ. He was Chief Financial Officer from August 2007 and a director from January 2008 of Williams Pipeline GP LLC, the general
partner of Williams Pipeline Partners L.P., until its merger with WPZ in August 2010. Mr. Chappel is a director of SUPERVALU, Inc. (a grocery and pharmacy company) and is chairman of its finance committee.


Robyn L. Ewing

Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer

Age: 56

Position held since April 2008.

From May 2004 to April 2008 Ms. Ewing was Vice President of Human Resources. Prior to joining Williams,
Ms. Ewing worked at MAPCO, which merged with Williams in April 1998. She began her career with Cities Service Company in 1976.

Rory L. Miller

Senior Vice President, Midstream

Age: 51

Position held since January 2011.

Mr. Miller acts as President of our midstream businesses. He was a Vice President of our midstream businesses from
May 2004 to December 2011. Mr. Miller also serves as a director and Senior Vice President, Midstream of Williams Partners GP LLC, the general partner of WPZ.

Craig L. Rainey

Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Age: 59

Position held since January 2012.

From February 2001 to December 2011, Mr. Rainey served as an Assistant General Counsel of Williams, primarily supporting
our midstream business and former exploration and production business. He joined Williams in 1999 as a senior counsel.

Ted T. Timmermans

Vice President, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer

Age: 55

Position held since July 2005.

Mr. Timmermans served as Assistant Controller of Williams from April 1998 to July 2005. Mr. Timmermans is also Vice
President, Controller & Chief Accounting Officer of Williams Partners GP LLC, the general partner of WPZ and served as Chief Accounting Officer of Williams Pipeline Partners GP LLC, the general partner of WMZ from January 2008 until its merger
with WPZ in August 2010.

Phillip D. Wright

Senior Vice President, Corporate Development

Age: 56

Position held since February 2011.

Mr. Wright served as Senior Vice President, Gas Pipeline and acted as President of our gas pipeline business from January
2005 to February 2011. From October 2002 to January 2005, he served as Chief Restructuring Officer. From September 2001 to October 2002, Mr. Wright served as President and Chief Executive Officer of our subsidiary, Williams Energy Services,
LLC. From 1996 until September 2001, he was Senior Vice President, Enterprise Development and Planning for our energy services group. Mr. Wright served as a director and Chief Operating Officer of Williams Pipeline GP LLC, the general partner
of WMZ until its merger with WPZ in August 2010 and was a director and Senior Vice President, Gas


Pipeline, of Williams Partners GP LLC, the general partner of WPZ from January 2010 to February 2011. Mr. Wright was appointed to the board of directors of Aegion Corporation (a provider of
technologies and services for the rehabilitation of pipeline systems) in November 2011.


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“WMB.” At the close of business on February 22, 2012, we had approximately 9,351 holders of record of our common stock. The high and low sales price ranges (New York Stock Exchange composite transactions) and dividends declared by
quarter for each of the past two years are as follows:

Some of our subsidiaries’ borrowing arrangements may limit the transfer of funds to
us. These terms have not impeded, nor are they expected to impede, our ability to pay dividends.

Performance Graph

Set forth below is a line graph comparing our cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock
(assuming reinvestment of dividends) with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Stock Index and the Bloomberg U.S. Pipeline Index for the period of five fiscal years commencing January 1, 2007. The Bloomberg U.S. Pipeline
Index is composed of El Paso, Enbridge, Kinder Morgan, Spectra Energy, TransCanada Corp., and Williams. The graph below assumes an investment of $100 at the beginning of the period.







The Williams Companies, Inc.

100.0

138.7

57.1

85.5

102.6

140.7

S&P 500 Index

100.0

105.5

66.5

84.1

96.7

98.8

Bloomberg U.S. Pipelines Index

100.0

118.5

72.4

102.6

126.2

174.1

The information presented in this Item has not been recast to reflect the WPX spin-off completed on December 31, 2011.


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following financial data at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2011, should be read in conjunction with the other financial information included in Part II, Item 7,

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

and Part II, Item 8,

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

of this Form 10-K. All other financial data has been prepared from our accounting records. Certain amounts have been recast as a result of the December 31, 2011 spin-off of WPX. (See Note 1 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

(1)

Income from continuing operations for 2011 includes $271 million of pre-tax early debt retirement costs and 2010 includes $648 million of pre-tax
costs associated with our strategic restructuring transaction in the first quarter of 2010. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of asset sales, impairments, and other accruals in 2011, 2010, and 2009.

(2)

Total assets and stockholders’ equity for 2011 decreased due to the special dividend to spin off our former exploration and production
business. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the spin-off and the dividend.

Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General

We are primarily an energy infrastructure company focused on connecting North America’s significant hydrocarbon resource plays to growing markets for natural gas, natural gas liquids, and olefins.
Our operations are located principally in the United States, but span from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian oil sands, and are organized into the Williams Partners and Midstream Canada & Olefins reporting segments. All remaining
business activities are included in Other. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these segments.) The Williams Partners segment consists of our consolidated master limited partnership, Williams
Partners L.P. (WPZ), of which we currently own approximately 72 percent, including the general partner interest.

Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of critical accounting estimates, results of operations, and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing
operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this document.

Spin-off of WPX

On December 1, 2011, we announced
that our Board of Directors approved a tax-free spinoff of 100 percent of our exploration and production business, WPX Energy, Inc. (WPX), to our shareholders. On December 31, 2011, we distributed one share of WPX common stock for every
three shares of Williams common stock. As a


result, with the exception of the December 31, 2011 balance sheet which no longer includes WPX, the consolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations and financial position
of WPX as discontinued operations.

Dividend Growth

We doubled our quarterly dividends from $0.125 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010 to $0.25 per share in the fourth
quarter of 2011. Also, consistent with expected growing cash distributions from our interest in WPZ, we expect continued dividend increases on a quarterly basis. Our Board of Directors has approved a dividend of $0.25875 per share for the first
quarter of 2012 and we expect total 2012 dividends to be $1.09 per share, which is approximately 41 percent higher than 2011.

Overview

Crude oil and NGL prices increased in 2011, while natural gas prices have remained relatively low. We have benefited from this environment as our 2011 income (loss) from continuing operations attributable
to The Williams Companies, Inc. increased by $699 million compared to 2010. This increase is primarily reflective of a $460 million improvement in operating profit and $335 million of lower charges associated with early debt retirements in 2011 as
compared to 2010. See additional discussion in Results of Operations.

Abundant and low-cost natural gas
reserves in the United States continue to drive strong demand for midstream and pipeline infrastructure. We believe we have successfully positioned our energy infrastructure businesses for significant future growth, as highlighted by the following
accomplishments during 2011 through the present:

•

In March 2011, Midstream Canada & Olefins announced a long-term agreement under which it will produce up to 17,000 barrels per day of
ethane/ethylene mix for a chemical company in Alberta, Canada. We plan to expand two primary facilities located in Alberta to support the new agreement. (See Results of Operations – Segments, Midstream Canada & Olefins.)

•

In October 2011, Williams Partners executed an agreement with two significant producers to provide certain production handling services in the
eastern deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We will design, construct and install a floating production system (Gulfstar FPS

™

) that will have the capacity to handle 60 thousand barrels per day (Mbbls/d) of oil, up to 200 million cubic
feet per day (MMcf/d) of natural gas, and the capability to provide seawater injection services. We expect Gulfstar FPS

™

to be placed into service in 2014 and to be capable of serving as a central host facility for other deepwater
prospects in the area. (See Results of Operations – Segments, Williams Partners.)

•

During 2011, Williams Partners placed into service expansions of a natural gas transmission system, compression facilities, and line facilities that
provide an aggregate additional 599 Mdth/d of incremental firm capacity. We also filed an application with the FERC to increase capacity by 250 Mdth/d by expanding our natural gas transmission system from the Marcellus Shale production region on the
Leidy Line to various delivery points in New York and New Jersey. (See Results of Operations – Segments, Williams Partners.)

•

In January 2012, Williams Partners placed into service our Springville pipeline that will allow us to initially deliver approximately 300 MMcf/d
into the Transco pipeline and full use of approximately 650 MMcf/d of capacity from various compression and dehydration expansion projects to our gathering business in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale. (See Results of Operations – Segments,
Williams Partners.)

•

Discovery, an equity method investee in which we own 60 percent and operate, announced in January 2012 that it signed long-term agreements with
anchor customers for natural gas gathering and processing services for production from the central deepwater Gulf of Mexico. To provide these services Discovery plans to construct a new deepwater pipeline which will have the capacity to flow
approximately 400 MMcf/d and will accommodate the tie-in of other deepwater prospects. (See Results of Operations – Segments, Williams Partners.)


•

In February 2012, Williams Partners completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interests in certain entities from Delphi Midstream
Partners, LLC. These entities primarily own the Laser Gathering System, which is comprised of 33 miles of 16-inch natural gas pipeline and associated gathering facilities in the Marcellus Shale in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, as well as 10
miles of gathering lines in southern New York. This acquisition represents a strategic platform to enhance Williams Partners’ expansion in the Marcellus Shale by providing our customers with both operational flow assurance and marketing
flexibility. (See Results of Operations - Segments, Williams Partners.)

•

In February 2012, we announced a new interstate gas pipeline joint venture with Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation. The new 120-mile Constitution
Pipeline will connect Williams Partners’ gathering system in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, to the Iroquois Gas Transmission and Tennessee Gas Pipeline systems. We will own 75 percent of Constitution Pipeline. This project, along with the
newly acquired Laser Gathering System and our Springville pipeline are key steps in Williams Partners’ strategy to create the Susquehanna Supply Hub, a major natural gas supply hub in northeastern Pennsylvania.

Outlook for 2012

We believe we are well positioned to execute on our 2012 business plan and to further realize our growth opportunities. Economic and commodity price indicators for 2012 and beyond reflect continued
improvement in the economic environment. However, these measures can be volatile and it is reasonably possible that the economy could worsen and/or commodity prices could decline, negatively impacting our future operating results.

Our business plan for 2012 includes planned capital and investment expenditures of at least $3.4 billion, of which we
expect to fund primarily through cash on hand, cash flow from operations, and debt and equity issuances by WPZ. Our structure is designed to drive lower capital costs, enhance reliable access to capital markets, and create a greater ability to
pursue development projects and acquisitions. We expect to realize our growth opportunities through these continued investments in our businesses in a way that meets customer needs and enhances our competitive position by:

•

Continuing to invest in and grow our gathering, processing, and interstate natural gas pipeline systems;

•

Retaining the flexibility to adjust somewhat our planned levels of capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions
or business opportunities.

Potential risks and/or obstacles that could impact the execution
of our plan include:

•

Availability of capital;

•

General economic, financial markets, or industry downturn;

•

Lower than anticipated energy commodity margins;

•

Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations;

•

Counterparty credit and performance risk;

•

Decreased volumes from third parties served by our midstream businesses;

•

Changes in the political and regulatory environments;

•

Physical damages to facilities, especially damage to offshore facilities by named windstorms.

We continue to address these risks through disciplined investment strategies, commodity hedging strategies, and
maintaining at least $1 billion in consolidated liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities.

Accounting Pronouncements Issued But Not Yet Adopted

Accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet adopted may have an effect on our Consolidated Financial
Statements in the future.

See

Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted

in Note 1 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on recently issued accounting standards.


Critical Accounting Estimate

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions. We have reviewed the selection, application, and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with our Audit Committee. We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the
subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations.

Pension and Postretirement Obligations

We have
employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Net periodic benefit expense and obligations for these plans are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected
long-term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and
adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following table presents the estimated increase (decrease) in net periodic benefit expense and obligations resulting
from a one-percentage-point change in the specific assumption.

Our expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, as determined at the beginning of
each fiscal year, are based on the average rate of return expected on the funds invested in the plans. We determine our long-term expected rates of return on plan assets using our expectations of capital market results, which includes an analysis of
historical results as well as forward-looking projections. These capital market expectations are based on a long-term period of at least ten years and consider our investment strategy and mix of assets, which is weighted toward domestic and
international equity securities. We develop our expectations using input from several external sources, including consultation with our third-party independent investment consultant. The forward-looking capital market projections are developed using
a consensus of economists’ expectations for inflation, GDP growth, and dividend yield along with expected changes in risk premiums. The capital market return projections for specific asset classes in the investment portfolio are then applied to
the relative weightings of the asset classes in the investment portfolio. The resulting rates are an estimate of future results and, thus, likely to be different than actual results.

In 2011, the fixed income exposure in the investment portfolios benefited while equities, particularly U.S. small
capitalization stocks and international stocks, negatively impacted portfolio returns. While the 2011 investment performance did not meet our expected rates of return, the expected rates of return on plan assets are long-term in nature and are not
significantly impacted by short-term market performance. Changes to our asset


allocation would also impact these expected rates of return. The 2011 actual return on plan assets for our pension plans was breakeven for the year. The ten-year average rate of return on pension
plan assets through December 2011 was approximately 4.1 percent.

The discount rates are used to measure the
benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The objective of the discount rates is to determine the amount, if invested at the December 31 measurement date in a portfolio of high-quality debt securities, that will
provide the necessary cash flows when benefit payments are due. Increases in the discount rates decrease the obligation and, generally, decrease the related expense. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are
determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general
economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long-term, high-quality debt securities as well as by the duration of our plans’ liabilities.

The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long-term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes the pension obligation and expense to increase.

The assumed health care cost trend rates are based on national trend rates adjusted for our actual historical cost rates
and plan design. An increase in this rate causes the other postretirement benefit obligation and expense to increase.


Results of Operations

Consolidated Overview

The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2011. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further
detail following this consolidated overview discussion.

*

+ = Favorable change; - = Unfavorable change; NM = A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to a change in signs, a zero-value denominator, or
a percentage change greater than 200.

2011 vs. 2010

The increase in

revenues

is primarily due to higher marketing and NGL production revenues at Williams Partners as a
result of higher average energy commodity prices, partially offset by a decrease in equity NGL production volumes. Additionally, fee revenues increased at Williams Partners primarily due to higher gathering, processing, and transportation fees.
Midstream Canada & Olefins ethylene and Canadian NGL production revenues increased primarily resulting from higher average energy commodity prices and higher volumes.


The increase in

costs and operating expenses

is primarily due to
increased costs associated with marketing purchases and operating costs at Williams Partners, partially offset by a decrease in NGL production costs. The higher marketing purchases are due to higher average energy commodity prices. Additionally,
ethylene and NGL feedstock costs increased at Midstream Canada & Olefins reflecting higher average per-unit feedstock costs and higher volumes.

The unfavorable change in

other (income) expense – net

within

operating income

primarily reflects:

•

$15 million of lower involuntary conversion gains in 2011 as compared to 2010 at Williams Partners due to insurance recoveries that are in excess of
the carrying value of the assets;

•

The absence of a $12 million gain in 2010 on the sale of certain assets at Williams Partners;

•

The absence of a $6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010 at Midstream Canada & Olefins;

•

$4 million lower sales of base gas from Hester Storage field in 2011 compared to 2010 at Williams Partners.

These unfavorable changes are partially offset by:

•

$19 million of income related to the Gulf Liquids litigation contingency accrual reduction in 2011 at Midstream Canada & Olefins (see Note 16 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements);

•

$10 million related to the reversal of project feasibility costs from expense to capital in 2011 at Williams Partners (see Note 4 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

The decrease in

general corporate expenses

is
primarily due to the absence of $45 million of transaction costs incurred in 2010 associated with our strategic restructuring transaction.

The favorable change in

operating income (loss)

generally reflects an improved energy commodity price environment in 2011 compared to 2010, increased fee revenues, and the absence of costs
associated with the strategic restructuring in 2010, partially offset by higher operating costs and an unfavorable change in

other (income) expense – net

as previously discussed.

The unfavorable change in

investing income – net

is primarily due to $32 million of decreased gains
recognized in 2011 related to the 2010 sale of our interest in Accroven SRL. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) This decrease is partially offset by an increase of $12 million in equity earnings, primarily at Williams
Partners related to an increased ownership interest in Overland Pass Pipeline Company LLC.

Early debt
retirement costs

in 2011 reflect costs related to corporate debt retirements in December 2011, including $254 million in related premiums. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Early debt retirement costs

in 2010
reflect costs related to corporate debt retirements associated with our first quarter 2010 strategic restructuring transaction, including premiums of $574 million.

Other (income) expense – net

below

operating income (loss)

changed favorably primarily due to a $11
million decrease in environmental accruals in 2011 as compared to 2010.

Provision (benefit) for income
taxes

changed unfavorably primarily due to higher pre-tax income, partially offset by federal settlements in 2011 and an adjustment to reverse taxes on undistributed earnings of certain foreign operations that are now considered permanently
reinvested. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rates compared to the federal statutory rate for both years.

Income (loss) from discontinued operations

reflects the results of operations of our former exploration and
production business as discontinued operations. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The
unfavorable change in

net income attributable to noncontrolling interests

reflects higher operating results at WPZ and increased noncontrolling interest ownership of WPZ as a result of WPZ equity issuances in 2010. These changes are partially
offset by our greater ownership interest related to WPZ’s merger with Williams Pipeline Partners L.P., which was completed in 2010.


2010 vs. 2009

The increase in

revenues

is primarily due to higher marketing and NGL production revenues
resulting from higher average energy commodity prices at Williams Partners. NGL and olefin production revenues at Midstream Canada & Olefins also increased due to higher average per-unit prices.

The increase in

costs and operating expenses

is primarily due to increased marketing
purchases and NGL production costs at Williams Partners, reflecting higher average energy commodity prices. Additionally, NGL and olefin production costs at Midstream Canada & Olefins increased due to higher average per-unit feedstock
costs.

Other (income) expense – net

within

operating income (loss)

in 2009 includes
a $40 million gain on the sale of our Cameron Meadows NGL processing plant at Williams Partners.

General
corporate expenses

in 2010 includes $45 million of transaction costs associated with our strategic restructuring transaction as discussed above.

The favorable change in

operating income (loss)

is primarily due to an improved energy commodity price environment in 2010 compared to 2009. The favorable change is partially offset by $45 million
of transaction costs in 2010 associated with our strategic restructuring transaction and an unfavorable change in

other (income) expense – net

.

The increase in

investing income – net

is primarily due to the absence of a $75 million impairment charge in
2009 and a $43 million gain in 2010 on the sale of our 50 percent interest in Accroven at Other, and a $28 million increase in equity earnings at Williams Partners.

Early debt retirement costs

in 2010 reflect costs related to corporate debt retirements associated with our first
quarter strategic restructuring transaction, including premiums of $574 million.

Other (income) expense
– net

below

operating income (loss)

in 2010 includes an $8 million environmental expense accrual associated with former refinery operations.

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

changed favorably primarily due to lower pre-tax income. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax
rates compared to the federal statutory rate for both years.

See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for a discussion of the items in

income (loss) from discontinued operations

.

Net income
attributable to noncontrolling interests

increased reflecting higher results at WPZ due to an improved energy commodity price environment in 2010 compared to 2009, as well as the impact of the first-quarter 2009 impairments and related charges
associated with our discontinued Venezuela operations.

Results of Operations

—

Segments

Williams Partners

Our Williams Partners segment includes WPZ, our consolidated master limited partnership, which includes two interstate natural gas pipelines, as well as investments in natural gas pipeline-related
companies, which serve regions from the San Juan basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado to Oregon and Washington and from the Gulf of Mexico to the northeastern United States. WPZ also includes natural gas gathering, processing,
and treating facilities and oil gathering and transportation facilities located primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. As of December 31, 2011, we own approximately 75 percent of the interests in WPZ,
including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us, and incentive distribution rights.


Williams Partners’ ongoing strategy is to safely and reliably operate
large-scale, interstate natural gas transmission and midstream infrastructures where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per-unit costs. We focus on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our
customers and utilizing our low cost-of-capital to invest in growing markets, including the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Marcellus Shale, the western United States, and areas of increasing natural gas demand.

Williams Partners’ interstate transmission and related storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and
as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are
established through the FERC’s ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little near-term impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in
transportation rates.

Overview of 2011

Significant events during 2011 include the following:

Laser Northeast Gathering System Acquisition

In February 2012, we acquired the Laser Northeast Gathering System and other midstream businesses from Delphi Midstream
Partners, LLC for $325 million in cash, net of cash acquired in the transaction and subject to certain closing adjustments, and approximately 7.5 million of WPZ’s common units. The Laser Gathering System is comprised of 33 miles of 16-inch
natural gas pipeline and associated gathering facilities in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, as well as 10 miles of gathering pipeline in southern New York. The acquisition is supported by existing long-term gathering agreements that provide
acreage dedications and volume commitments. As production in the Marcellus increases, the Laser system is expected to reach a capacity of 1.3 Bcf/d.

Marcellus Shale Gathering Asset Transition and Expansion

Our Springville pipeline was placed into service in January 2012, allowing us to deliver approximately 300 MMcf/d into the
Transco pipeline. This new take-away capacity allows full use of approximately 650 MMcf/d of capacity from various compression and dehydration expansion projects to our gathering business in northeastern Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale which we
acquired at the end of 2010. In conjunction with a long-term agreement with a significant producer, we are operating the 33-mile, 24-inch diameter natural gas gathering pipeline, connecting a portion of our gathering assets into the Transco
pipeline. Expansions to the Springville compression facilities in 2012 are expected to increase the capacity to approximately 625 MMcf/d.

Construction of a new noncontiguous gathering system is complete and was placed into service in October 2011. This system currently has the capacity to deliver approximately 50 MMcf/d into a third-party
interstate pipeline via the newly acquired Laser gathering system.

In early 2011, we assumed the operational
activities for these gathering systems in northeastern Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale which we acquired at the end of 2010. The acquired business included 75 miles of gathering pipelines and two compressor stations. We expect to expand this
gathering system to a planned capacity of 1.7 Bcf/d by 2015.

Keathley Canyon Connector™

Our equity investee, Discovery, plans to construct, own, and operate a new 215-mile 20-inch deepwater
lateral pipeline for production from the Keathley Canyon Connector™, Walker Ridge, and Green Canyon areas in the central deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Discovery has signed long-term agreements with anchor customers for natural gas gathering and
processing services for production from those fields. The Keathley Canyon Connector™ lateral will originate from a third-party floating production facility in the southeast portion of the Keathley Canyon Connector™ area and will connect to
Discovery’s existing 30-inch offshore gas transmission


system. The lateral pipeline is estimated to have the capacity to flow more than 400 MMcf/d and will accommodate the tie-in of other deepwater prospects. Construction is expected to begin in
2013, with a mid-2014 in-service date.

Gulfstar FPS™ Deepwater Project

In October 2011, we executed agreements with two significant producers to provide production handling services for the
Tubular Bells discovery located in the eastern deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The operator of the Tubular Bells field will utilize our proprietary floating-production system, Gulfstar FPS™. We expect Gulfstar FPS

™

to be capable of
serving as a central host facility for other deepwater prospects in the area. We will design, construct, and install our Gulfstar FPS

™

with a capacity of 60 Mbbls/d of oil, up to 200 MMcf/d of natural gas, and the capability to provide
seawater injection services. The facility is a spar-based floating production system that utilizes a standard design approach that will allow customers to reduce their cycle time from discovery to first production. Construction is underway and the
project is expected to be in service in 2014.

Eagle Ford Shale

We have completed construction on a pipeline segment and related modifications necessary to reverse the flow of an
existing Transco pipeline segment in southwest Texas, which began to gather south Texas gas to our Markham gas processing facility in the second quarter of 2011. In addition, we connected a third-party pipeline to our Markham plant during the third
quarter that is delivering Eagle Ford Shale gas to the plant. We have executed both fee-based and keep whole processing agreements which we expect will increase utilization of our Markham facility to the full gas processing capacity. Markham is
subject to limited NGL take-away capacity until third-party pipeline connections are completed in early 2013.

Perdido Norte

During the fourth quarter of 2010, both oil and gas production began to flow on a sustained basis through our Perdido Norte expansion, located in the western deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico. The project
included a 200 MMcf/d expansion of our Markham gas processing facility and a total of 179 miles of deepwater oil and gas lines that expand the scale of our existing infrastructure. While 2011 production volumes were significantly lower than
originally expected, they have increased each quarter of 2011 as producers have resolved several technical issues. With these improvements and with the addition of a new well, we anticipate volumes in 2012 to be higher than in 2011.

Gulfstream

In May 2011, an entity reported within Other contributed a 24.5 percent interest in Gulfstream to WPZ in exchange for aggregate consideration of $297 million of cash, 632,584 limited partner units, and an
increase in the capital account of WPZ’s general partner to maintain the 2 percent general partner interest. Williams Partners now holds a 49 percent interest in Gulfstream. Prior period segment disclosures have not been adjusted for this
transaction as the impact, which was less than 2.5 percent of Williams Partners’ segment profit for all periods affected, was not material.

Overland Pass Pipeline

We became the operator of OPPL
effective April 1, 2011. We own a 50 percent interest in OPPL which includes a 760-mile NGL pipeline from Opal, Wyoming, to the Mid-Continent NGL market center in Conway, Kansas, along with 150- and 125-mile extensions into the Piceance
and Denver-Julesburg basins in Colorado, respectively. Our equity NGL volumes from our two Wyoming plants and our Willow Creek plant in Colorado are dedicated for transport on OPPL under a long-term shipping agreement. We plan to participate in the
construction of a pipeline connection and capacity expansions, expected to be complete in early 2013, to increase the pipeline’s capacity to the maximum of 255 Mbbls/d, to accommodate new volumes coming from the Bakken Shale in the Williston
basin.


Laurel Mountain

The initial phases of the Shamrock compressor station are in service, providing 60 MMcf/d of additional capacity, with
further expansions planned in 2012. This compressor station is expandable to 350 MMcf/d and will likely be the largest central delivery point out of the Laurel Mountain system. Our equity investee continues to progress on further additions to the
gathering infrastructure.

Volatile commodity prices

Average per-unit NGL margins in 2011 were significantly higher than in 2010, benefiting from a strong demand for NGLs
resulting in higher NGL prices and slightly lower natural gas prices driven by abundant natural gas supplies.

NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less any applicable BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, and third-party
transportation and fractionation. Per-unit NGL margins are calculated based on sales of our own equity volumes at the processing plants. Our equity volumes include NGLs where we own the rights to the value from NGLs recovered at our plants under
both “keep-whole” processing agreements, where we have the obligation to replace the lost heating value with natural gas, and “percent-of-liquids” agreements whereby we receive a portion of the extracted liquids with no
obligation to replace the lost heating value.

85 North project

In September 2009, we received approval from the FERC to construct an expansion of our existing natural gas transmission
system from Alabama to various delivery points as far north as North Carolina. Phase I was placed into service in July 2010 and it provides 90 thousand dekatherms per day (Mdth/d) of incremental firm capacity. Phase II was placed into service
in May 2011 and it provides 219 Mdth/d of incremental firm capacity.


Mobile Bay South II project

In July 2010, we received approval from the FERC to construct additional compression facilities and modifications to
existing Mobile Bay line facilities in Alabama allowing transportation service to various southbound delivery points. The project was placed into service in May 2011 and provides incremental firm capacity of 380 Mdth/d.

Outlook for 2012

The following factors could impact our business in 2012.

Commodity price changes

•

We expect our average per-unit NGL margins in 2012 to be comparable to 2011 and higher than our rolling five-year average per-unit NGL margins. NGL
price changes have historically tracked somewhat with changes in the price of crude oil, although NGL, crude and natural gas prices are highly volatile, difficult to predict, and are often not highly correlated. NGL margins are highly dependent upon
continued demand within the global economy. However, NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production, which has been shifting away from the more expensive crude-based feedstocks. Bolstered by abundant
long-term domestic natural gas supplies, we expect to benefit from these dynamics in the broader global petrochemical markets.

•

As part of our efforts to manage commodity price risks on an enterprise basis, we continue to evaluate our commodity hedging strategies. To reduce
the exposure to changes in market prices in 2012, we have entered into NGL swap agreements to fix the prices of approximately 5 percent of our anticipated NGL sales volumes and an approximate corresponding portion of anticipated shrink gas
requirements for 2012. The combined impact of these energy commodity derivatives will provide a margin on the hedged volumes of $106 million. The following table presents our energy commodity hedging instruments as of February 15, 2012.

Gathering, processing, and NGL sales volumes

•

The growth of natural gas supplies supporting our gathering and processing volumes are impacted by producer drilling activities, which are
influenced by natural gas prices.

•

In Williams Partners’ onshore midstream businesses, we anticipate significant growth in our gas gathering volumes as our infrastructure grows
to support drilling activities in northeast Pennsylvania. We anticipate slight increases in gas gathering volumes in the Piceance basin and no change or slight declines in basins in the Rocky Mountain and Four Corners areas due to reduced drilling
activity. We anticipate equity NGL volumes in 2012 to be comparable to 2011, as we expect little change in the volume of gas processed in the western onshore businesses. Sustained low gas prices could discourage producer drilling activities in our
onshore areas and unfavorably impact the supply of natural gas available to gather and process in the long term.


•

In Williams Partners’ gulf coast businesses, we expect higher gas gathering, processing, and crude transportation volumes as production flowing
through our Perdido Norte pipelines becomes consistent and other in-process drilling is completed. Increases in permitting, subsequent to the 2010 drilling moratorium, give us reason to expect gradual increased drilling activities in the Gulf of
Mexico. In the Gulf Coast, our customers’ drilling activities are primarily focused on crude oil economics, rather than natural gas. We have not experienced, and do not anticipate an overall significant decline in volumes due to reduced
drilling activities.

•

The operator of the third-party fractionator serving our NGL production transported on Overland Pass Pipeline has notified us of an expected 20- to
25-day outage in the second quarter of 2012 to accommodate their expansion efforts. The outage could result in a reduction to our equity volumes of up to approximately 20 million to 25 million gallons, along with price impacts; however we are
evaluating methods to mitigate the impact.

•

We anticipate higher general and administrative, operating, and depreciation expense supporting our growing operations in northeast Pennsylvania,
Piceance basin, and western Gulf of Mexico.

Expansion Projects

We have planned growth capital and investment expenditures of $2,305 million to $2,535 million in 2012. We plan to pursue
expansion and growth opportunities in the Marcellus Shale region, Gulf of Mexico, and Piceance basin. Our ongoing major expansion projects include:

Marcellus Shale & Gulf of Mexico

As previously discussed, our ongoing major expansions to our gathering infrastructure in the Marcellus
Shale region in northeastern Pennsylvania, including the acquisition of the Laser gathering system and related planned additions, expansions within our Laurel Mountain equity investment, also in the Marcellus Shale region, as well as our Gulfstar
FPS

™

floating production system and Discovery’s Keathley Canyon Connector™ pipeline, both located in the Gulf of Mexico.

Parachute

In conjunction with a new
basin-wide agreement for all gathering and processing services provided by us to a customer in the Piceance basin, we plan to construct a 350 MMcf/d cryogenic gas processing plant. The Parachute TXP I plant is expected to be in service in 2014.

Mid-South

In August 2011, we received approval from the FERC to upgrade compressor facilities and expand our
existing natural gas transmission system from Alabama to markets as far north as North Carolina. The cost of the project is estimated to be $217 million. The project is expected to be phased into service in September 2012 and June 2013, with an
expected increase in capacity of 225 Mdth/d.

Mid-Atlantic Connector

In July 2011, we received approval from the FERC to expand our existing natural gas transmission system
from North Carolina to markets as far downstream as Maryland. The cost of the project is estimated to be $55 million and is expected to increase capacity by 142 Mdth/d. We plan to place the project into service in November 2012.

Northeast Supply Link

In December 2011, we filed an application with the FERC to expand our existing natural gas transmission
system from the Marcellus Shale production region on the Leidy Line to various delivery


points in New York and New Jersey. The cost of the project is estimated to be $341 million and is expected to increase capacity by 250 Mdth/d. We plan to place the project into service in
November 2013.

Eminence Storage Field Leak

On December 28, 2010, we detected a leak in one of the seven underground natural gas storage caverns at our Eminence
Storage Field in Mississippi. Due to the leak and related damage to the well at an adjacent cavern, both caverns are out of service. In addition, two other caverns at the field, which were constructed at or about the same time as those caverns, have
experienced operating problems, and we have determined that they should also be retired. The event has not affected the performance of our obligations under our service agreements with our customers.

In September 2011, we filed an application with the FERC seeking authorization to abandon these four caverns. We estimate
the total abandonment costs, which will be capital in nature, will be approximately $76 million which is expected to be spent through the first half of 2013. Through December 31, 2011, we have incurred approximately $38 million in abandonment
costs. This estimate is subject to change as work progresses and additional information becomes known. Management considers these costs to be prudent costs incurred in the abandonment of these caverns and expects to recover these costs, net of
insurance proceeds, in future rate filings. To the extent available, the abandonment costs will be funded from the ARO Trust. (See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

For the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred approximately $15 million of expense related primarily to
assessment and monitoring costs to ensure the safety of the surrounding area.

Filing of rate cases

During 2012, we expect to file rate cases for both Transco and Northwest Pipeline, which are expected to result in new
transportation and storage rates beginning in 2013.

Year-Over-Year Operating Results

2011 vs. 2010

The increase in

segment revenues

includes:

•

A $589 million increase in marketing revenues primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are substantially offset by
similar changes in marketing purchases.

•

A $244 million increase in revenues from our equity NGLs reflecting an increase of $272 million associated with a 25 percent increase in
average NGL per-unit sales prices, partially offset by a decrease of $28 million associated with a 3 percent decrease in equity NGL volumes.

•

A $103 million increase in fee revenues primarily due to higher gathering and processing fee revenues. We have fees from new volumes on our
gathering assets in the Marcellus Shale in northeastern Pennsylvania, which we acquired at the end of 2010, and on our Perdido Norte gas and oil pipelines in the western deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which went into service in late 2010. In addition,
higher fees in the Piceance basin are primarily a result of an agreement executed in November 2010. These increases


are partially offset by a decline in gathering and transportation fees in the eastern deepwater Gulf of Mexico primarily due to natural field declines.

•

A $68 million increase in transportation revenues associated with natural gas pipeline expansion projects placed in service during 2010 and 2011.

The increase in s

egment costs and expenses

of $725 million includes:

•

A $574 million increase in marketing purchases primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are offset by similar
changes in marketing revenues.

•

A $136 million increase in operating costs reflecting $84 million higher maintenance expenses, including maintenance expenses for our gathering
assets in northeastern Pennsylvania acquired at the end of 2010, more maintenance performed on our assets in the western onshore businesses, additional maintenance related to the Eminence storage leak, and higher property insurance expense. In
addition, depreciation expense is $43 million higher primarily due to our new Perdido Norte pipelines and our Echo Springs expansion, both of which went into service in late 2010, along with accelerated depreciation of our Lybrook plant which was
idled in January 2012 when the gas was redirected to our Ignacio plant.

•

The absence of $30 million in gains recognized in 2010 associated with sale of certain assets in Colorado’s Piceance basin and involuntary
conversion gains due to insurance recoveries in excess of the carrying value.

•

A $42 million decrease in costs associated with our equity NGLs reflecting a decrease of $21 million associated with a 5 percent decrease in
average natural gas prices and a $21 million decrease reflecting lower equity NGL volumes.

The increase in William Partners’

segment profit

includes:

•

$286 million of higher NGL production margins reflecting favorable commodity price changes.

•

A $103 million increase in fee revenues as previously discussed.

•

A $68 million increase in transportation revenues associated with natural gas pipeline expansion projects placed in service during 2010 and 2011.

•

A $15 million increase in margins related to the marketing of NGLs and crude.

•

A $33 million increase in equity earnings primarily due to the acquisition of additional interest in Gulfstream and an increased ownership interest
in OPPL.

•

A $136 million increase in operating costs as previously discussed.

•

A $30 million unfavorable change related to gains recognized in 2010 as previously discussed.

2010 vs. 2009

The increase in

segment revenues

includes:

•

A $699 million increase in marketing revenues primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are more than offset by
similar changes in marketing purchases.

•

A $330 million increase in revenues associated with the production of NGLs reflecting an increase of $335 million associated with a 41 percent
increase in average NGL per-unit sales prices.

•

A $56 million increase in fee revenues primarily due to higher gathering revenue in the Piceance basin as a result of permitted increases in the
cost-of-service gathering rate in 2010.

The increase in s

egment costs and expenses

of $884 million includes:

•

A $721 million increase in marketing purchases primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are substantially offset by
similar changes in marketing revenues.


•

A $107 million increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs reflecting an increase of $101 million associated with a 30 percent
increase in average natural gas prices.

•

A $19 million increase in operating costs including $12 million higher depreciation primarily due to the new Perdido Norte pipelines and a full
year of depreciation on our Willow Creek facility which was placed into service in the latter part of 2009.

•

The absence of a $40 million gain on the sale of our Cameron Meadows processing plant in 2009, partially offset by smaller gains in 2010. Gains
recognized in 2010 include involuntary conversion gains due to insurance recoveries in excess of the carrying value of our gulf assets which were damaged by Hurricane Ike in 2008 and our Ignacio plant, which was damaged by a fire in 2007, as well as
gains associated with sales of certain assets in Colorado’s Piceance basin.

The
increase in William Partners’

segment profit

includes:

•

$223 million of higher NGL production margins reflecting higher NGL prices, partially offset by increased production costs associated with higher
natural gas prices. NGL equity volumes were slightly higher due primarily to new production at Willow Creek, partially offset by the absence of favorable customer contractual changes and decreasing inventory levels in 2009.

•

$28 million increase in equity earnings, including a $10 million increase from Discovery primarily due to higher processing margins and new volumes
from the Tahiti pipeline lateral expansion completed in 2009. In addition, equity earnings from Aux Sable are $10 million higher primarily due to higher processing margins, and equity earnings from our increased investment in OPPL were $5 million.

•

A $56 million increase in fee revenues as previously discussed.

•

A $22 million decrease in margins related to the marketing of NGLs and crude primarily due to lower favorable changes in pricing while product was
in transit in 2010 as compared to 2009.

•

A $19 million increase in operating costs as previously discussed.

•

A $14 million unfavorable change related to the disposal of assets as previously discussed.

Midstream Canada & Olefins

Our Midstream Canada & Olefins segment includes our oil sands off-gas processing plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, our NGL/olefin fractionation facility and butylene/butane (B/B) splitter
facility at Redwater, Alberta, our NGL light-feed olefins cracker in Geismar, Louisiana along with associated ethane and propane pipelines, and our refinery grade propylene splitter in Louisiana. The products we produce are: NGLs, ethylene,
propylene, and other co-products. Our NGL products include: propane, normal butane, isobutane/butylene (butylene), and condensate. Prior to the operation of the B/B splitter, we also produced and sold B/B mix product which is now separated and sold
as butylene and normal butane.

Significant events for 2011

We signed a long-term agreement to initially produce 10,000 barrels per day (bbls/d) of ethane/ethylene mix for a
third-party customer. We expect that we will ultimately increase our production of ethane/ethylene mix to 17,000 bbls/d and we expect to complete our expansions necessary to produce the initial barrels in the first quarter of 2013.

Outlook for 2012

The following factors could impact our business in 2012.

Commodity margin changes

While per-unit margins are volatile and highly dependent upon continued demand within the global economy, we believe that our gross commodity margins will be comparable or increase slightly over 2011
levels. NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production which has been


shifting away from the more expensive crude-based feedstocks. Bolstered by abundant long-term domestic natural gas supplies, we expect to benefit from these dynamics in the broader global
petrochemical markets because of our NGL-based olefins production.

Allocation of capital to projects

We expect to spend $600 million to $700 million in 2012 on capital projects. The major expansion
projects include:

•

The Boreal Pipeline project, which is a 12-inch diameter pipeline in Canada that will transport recovered NGLs and olefins from our
extraction plant in Fort McMurray to our Redwater fractionation facility. The pipeline will have sufficient capacity to transport additional recovered liquids in excess of those from our current agreements. Construction is well underway and we
anticipate an in-service date in the second quarter of 2012.

•

An expansion of our Geismar olefins production facility which is expected to increase the facility’s ethylene production capacity by
600 million pounds per year to a new annual capacity of 1.95 billion pounds. We are currently in the detailed engineering and procurement phase and expect to complete the expansion in the latter part of 2013.

•

The ethane recovery project, which is an expansion of our Canadian facilities that will allow us to recover ethane/ethylene mix from our
operations that process off-gas from the Alberta oil sands. We plan to modify our oil sands off-gas extraction plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, and construct a de-ethanizer at our Redwater fractionation facility. Our de-ethanizer is expected to
initially process approximately 10,000 bbls/d of ethane/ethylene mix. As previously mentioned, we have signed a long-term contract to provide the ethane/ethylene mix to a third-party customer. Construction began in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we
expect to complete the expansions and begin producing ethane/ethylene mix in the first quarter of 2013.

Year-Over-Year Operating Results

2011 vs. 2010

Segment revenues

increased primarily due to:

•

$126 million higher ethylene production sales revenues due to 28 percent higher average per-unit sales prices on 6 percent higher
volumes primarily resulting from the absence of a four-week plant maintenance outage in 2010.

•

$79 million higher NGL production revenues primarily resulting from:

•

Higher average per-unit sales prices driven by a change in our Canadian product mix. Through mid-2010, we sold B/B mix product, but in August
2010, we began producing and selling both butylene and normal butane that was produced by our new B/B splitter. The separated products receive higher values in the marketplace than the B/B mix sold previously.

•

Higher NGL sales prices resulting from higher market prices.

•

29 percent increased sales volumes on our Canadian butylene and normal butane products primarily due to lower volume impact of operational
and maintenance issues in 2011 as compared to 2010.


•

$37 million higher propylene production revenues due to $68 million higher revenues from 26 percent higher average per-unit sales
prices, partially offset by $31 million lower revenues resulting from 10 percent lower overall propylene production sales volumes. The lower sales volumes were primarily due to the net impact of the following:

•

18 percent lower volumes at our Louisiana refinery grade propylene splitter primarily due to marketing and supply and third-party storage
constraints, and customer outages. The impact of the lower propylene splitter sales was substantially offset by similar changes in related costs.

•

10 percent higher propylene sales volumes at our Canadian facility primarily due to lower volume impact of operational and maintenance issues
in 2011 as compared to 2010.

•

$30 million higher butadiene and debutanized aromatic concentrate (DAC) production sales revenues primarily due to higher average per-unit
sales prices.

Segment costs and expenses

increased $155 million primarily as a
result of:

•

$93 million higher ethylene feedstock costs resulting from higher average per-unit feedstock costs and 6 percent higher volumes.

•

$17 million higher operating and maintenance expenses primarily resulting from higher repairs and maintenance at our Canadian facilities and
Geismar plant.

•

$14 million higher NGL feedstock costs primarily due to higher average per-unit feedstock costs on certain products and increased volumes on
our Canadian butylene and normal butane products primarily due to reduced maintenance and operational issues.

•

$14 million higher propylene feedstock costs resulting from $36 million higher costs from 19 percent higher average per-unit feedstock costs,
partially offset by $22 million lower costs related to reduced propylene feedstock volumes primarily from the lower volumes at our Louisiana refinery grade splitter described above.

•

$11 million higher butadiene and DAC feedstock costs primarily due to higher per-unit feedstock costs.

•

$6 million higher general and administrative costs.

•

The absence of a $6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010.

These increases were partially offset by $19 million of 2011 income related to the reduction of our accrual for the Gulf
Liquids litigation. (See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Segment profit

increased primarily due to:

•

$42 million higher Canadian NGL production margins on the butylene and normal butane products primarily resulting from higher average
per-unit margins primarily driven by a change in product mix, higher NGL sales prices, and higher volumes.

•

$33 million higher Geismar ethylene production margins due to 27 percent higher per-unit margins on 6 percent higher volumes.

•

$24 million higher Canadian propylene production margins resulting from 37 percent higher per-unit margins and 10 percent higher volumes.

•

$23 million higher Canadian propane production margins due to 37 percent higher per-unit margins and 5 percent higher volumes.

•

$19 million higher Geismar butadiene and DAC production margins primarily resulting from higher average per-unit margins.

•

$19 million of 2011 income related to the reduction of our accrual for the Gulf Liquids litigation. (See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.)


These increases were partially offset by $17 million higher operating and
maintenance expenses, $6 million higher general and administrative costs and the absence of a $6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010.

2010 vs. 2009

Segment revenues

increased primarily
due to:

•

$307 million higher NGL and olefins production revenues resulting from higher average per-unit prices. The new B/B splitter began
producing and selling both butylene and normal butane in August 2010 and resulted in $22 million additional sales revenues over the 2009 B/B mix product sold. The separated products receive higher values in the marketplace than the B/B mix sold
previously.

•

$27 million higher marketing revenues due to general increases in energy commodity prices on slightly higher volumes. The higher
marketing revenues were more than offset by similar changes in marketing purchases described below.

Partially offsetting the increased revenue was a $57 million decrease from lower sales volumes primarily due to:

•

11 percent lower Geismar ethylene sales volumes, including the impact of a four-week plant maintenance outage at our Geismar plant
during the fourth quarter of 2010.

•

12 percent lower propylene volumes sold primarily due to the absence of certain large 2009 propylene inventory sales and lower volumes
available for processing at our Louisiana refinery grade propylene splitter.

Segment
costs and expenses

increased $145 million primarily as a result of:

•

$156 million higher NGL and olefins production product costs resulting from higher average per-unit feedstock costs.

•

$29 million increased marketing purchases due to general increases in energy commodity prices on slightly higher volumes. The increased
marketing purchases more than offset similar changes in marketing revenues.

•

$9 million higher operating and general and administrative costs.

Partially offsetting the increased costs are decreases due to:

•

$45 million of reduced product costs resulting from the lower sales volumes described above.

•

$6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010.

Segment profit

increased primarily due to $139 million higher NGL and olefins production
margins resulting from significantly higher average per-unit margins on lower volumes.

Other

Other includes business activities that are not operating segments as well as corporate operations.

Year-Over-Year Operating Results


2011 vs. 2010

The unfavorable change in s

egment profit

is primarily due to $32 million of decreased gains recognized in 2011
related to the 2010 sale of our interest in Accroven SRL. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We are pursuing collection of these past due amounts from Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), as well as claims
related to the 2009 expropriation of certain of our Venezuelan operations, which are reported as discontinued operations.

2010 vs. 2009

The favorable change in s

egment
profit

is primarily due to the net impact of recognizing $43 million in gains on the Accroven investment in 2010 while recording a $75 million impairment charge on that investment in 2009.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity

Overview

In 2011, we continued to focus upon growth through disciplined investments in our businesses. Examples of this growth included:

•

Continued investment in Williams Partners’ gathering and processing capacity and infrastructure in the Marcellus Shale area, western United
States, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Included is a project to design, construct and install a floating production system (Gulfstar FPS™) in the eastern deepwater Gulf of Mexico;

•

Expansion of Williams Partners’ interstate natural gas pipeline system to meet the demand of growth markets;

•

Expansion of Midstream Canada & Olefins’ facilities to increase production of an ethane/ethylene mix.

These investments were funded through cash flow from operations, debt offerings at WPZ and cash on hand.

Our former exploration and production business, WPX, continued to invest in development drilling programs during 2011
that were largely self-funded through cash flow from operations. In November 2011, WPX completed the issuance of $1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes. WPX distributed $981 million of the net proceeds to us and retained approximately $500 million
to fund future investments. Primarily utilizing the distribution we received related to the WPX debt issuance, we retired $746 million of debt in December 2011. We completed the tax-free spin-off of 100 percent of WPX to our shareholders on
December 31, 2011.

During 2011, the economy has shown mixed signs of recovery; however, financial
markets continue to be volatile as fears of global recession persist. In consideration of our liquidity in this environment, we note that, as of December 31, 2011, we have $889 million of cash and cash equivalents and $2.9 billion of
available credit capacity under our credit facilities. Our $900 million and WPZ’s $2 billion credit facilities do not expire until June 2016. (See additional discussion in the following Available Liquidity section.)

Outlook

Our plan for 2012 includes continued strong operating cash flows from our businesses. Lower-than-expected energy commodity prices would be somewhat mitigated by certain of our cash flow streams that are
substantially insulated from short-term changes in commodity prices as follows:

•

Firm demand and capacity reservation transportation revenues under long-term contracts from our gas pipelines;

•

Fee-based revenues from certain gathering and processing services in our midstream businesses.

We believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet our requirements for
capital and investment expenditures, dividends and distributions, working capital, and tax and


debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity. In particular, we note the following assumptions for 2012:

•

We expect capital and investment expenditures to total between $3.4 billion and $3.8 billion in 2012. Of this total, maintenance capital
expenditures, which are generally considered nondiscretionary and include expenditures to meet legal and regulatory requirements, to maintain and/or extend the operating capacity and useful lives of our assets, and to complete certain well
connections, are expected to total between $520 million and $600 million. Expansion capital expenditures, which are generally more discretionary to fund projects in order to grow our business are expected to total between $2.88 billion and $3.2
billion. See Results of Operations – Segments, Williams Partners and Midstream Canada & Olefins for discussions describing the general nature of these expenditures;

•

We expect to pay total cash dividends of approximately $1.09 per common share, an increase of 41 percent over 2011 levels. We expect to increase our
dividend quarterly through paying out substantially all of the cash distributions, net of applicable taxes, interest and costs, we receive from WPZ;

•

We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, and working capital requirements primarily through cash flow from
operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, utilization of our revolving credit facilities, and proceeds from debt issuances and sales of equity securities as needed. Based on a range of market assumptions, we currently estimate our cash flow
from operations will be between $1.85 billion and $2.325 billion in 2012;

•

We expect to maintain consolidated liquidity (which includes liquidity at WPZ) of at least $1 billion from

cash and cash equivalents

and
unused revolving credit facilities;

•

We expect WPZ to fund its $325 million of current debt maturities with a new debt issuance;

•

In January 2012, WPZ completed an equity issuance of 7 million common units representing limited partner interests in it at a price of $62.81
per unit. In February 2012, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 1.05 million common units for $62.81 per unit, with expected settlement on February 28, 2012;

•

On February 17, 2012, Williams Partners completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interests in certain entities from Delphi
Midstream Partners, LLC in exchange for $325 million in cash, net of cash acquired in the transaction and subject to certain closing adjustments, and approximately 7.5 million WPZ common units.

Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures
discussed above include:

•

Sustained reductions in energy commodity prices from the range of current expectations;

•

Lower than expected distributions, including incentive distribution rights, from WPZ. WPZ’s liquidity could also be impacted by a lack of
adequate access to capital markets to fund its growth;

•

Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations from Midstream Canada & Olefins.

Liquidity

Based on our forecasted levels of cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to manage our businesses in 2012. Our internal and external sources of
consolidated liquidity include cash generated from our operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and our credit facilities. Additional sources of liquidity, if needed, include bank financings, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and
equity securities, and proceeds from asset sales. These sources are available to us at the parent level and are expected to be available to certain of our subsidiaries, particularly equity and debt issuances from WPZ. WPZ is expected to be
self-funding through its cash flows from operations, use of its credit facility, and its access to capital markets. WPZ makes cash distributions to us in accordance with the partnership agreement, which considers our level of ownership and incentive
distribution rights. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions.


(1)

Includes $467 million of

cash and cash equivalents

that is being held by certain subsidiary and international operations and is not
considered available for general corporate purposes. The remainder of our

cash and cash equivalents

is primarily held in government-backed instruments.

(2)

In June 2011, we replaced our existing $900 million unsecured revolving credit facility agreement that was scheduled to expire in May 2012 with a
new $900 million five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreement. At December 31, 2011, we are in compliance with the financial covenants associated with this new credit facility agreement (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements).

(3)

In June 2011, WPZ replaced its existing $1.75 billion unsecured revolving credit facility agreement that was scheduled to expire in February 2013
with a new $2 billion five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreement. At December 31, 2011, WPZ is in compliance with the financial covenants associated with this new credit facility agreement. This credit facility is only
available to WPZ, Transco and Northwest Pipeline as co-borrowers (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

In addition to the credit facilities listed above, we have issued letters of credit totaling $21 million as of December 31, 2011, under certain bilateral bank agreements.

WPZ filed a shelf registration statement as a well-known, seasoned issuer in February 2012 that allows it to issue an
unlimited amount of registered debt and limited partnership unit securities.

At the parent-company level, we
filed a shelf registration statement as a well-known, seasoned issuer in May 2009 that allows us to issue an unlimited amount of registered debt and equity securities.

As described in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have determined that we have net assets that
are technically considered restricted in accordance with Rule 4-08(e) of Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission in excess of 25 percent of our consolidated net assets. We do not expect this determination will impact our ability to
pay dividends or meet future obligations as the terms of WPZ’s partnership agreement require it to make quarterly distributions of all available cash, as defined, to its unitholders.

Credit Ratings

Our ability to borrow money is impacted by our credit ratings and the credit ratings of WPZ. The current ratings are as follows:


(1)

A rating of “BBB” or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below “BBB” indicates that the security has
significant speculative characteristics. A “BB” rating indicates that Standard & Poor’s believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but adverse business conditions could lead to
insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Standard & Poor’s may modify its ratings with a “+” or a “-” sign to show the obligor’s relative standing within a major rating category.

(2)

A rating of “Baa” or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below “Baa” is considered to have speculative
elements. The “1,” “2,” and “3” modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A “1” indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, “2” indicates a
mid-range ranking, and “3” indicates the lower end of the category.

On February
27, 2012, Moody’s Investors Service revised WMB’s rating outlook to stable from negative.

On
February 27, 2012, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded WPZ’s senior unsecured debt rating to Baa2 from Baa3. The rating outlook was also revised to stable from under review for possible upgrade.

(3)

A rating of “BBB” or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below “BBB” is considered speculative grade. Fitch may
add a “+” or a “-” sign to show the obligor’s relative standing within a major rating category.

On February 9, 2012, Fitch Ratings revised WMB’s outlook to stable from rating watch negative. WPZ’s outlook was also revised to positive from stable.

Credit rating agencies perform independent analyses when assigning credit ratings. No assurance can be given that the
credit rating agencies will continue to assign us investment grade ratings even if we meet or exceed their current criteria for investment grade ratios. A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our future cost of borrowing and would require
us to post additional collateral with third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, we estimate that a downgrade to a rating below investment grade for us or WPZ could require us to post up to $165
million or $134 million, respectively, in additional collateral with third parties.

Sources (Uses) of Cash

Operating activities

Our

net cash provided by operating activities

in 2011 increased from 2010 primarily due to higher operating income
from our continuing businesses.

Our

net cash provided by operating activities

in 2010 increased
slightly from 2009 primarily due to the improvement in the energy commodity price environment during the year.

Financing activities

Significant transactions include:


•

$526 million of cash retained by WPX upon spin-off on December 31, 2011;

•

$746 million of notes and debentures retired in December 2011 and $254 million paid in associated premiums;


•

$1.5 billion received from WPX’s issuance of senior unsecured notes in November 2011;

•

$500 million received from WPZ’s public offering of senior unsecured notes in November 2011 primarily used to repay borrowings on its
credit facility mentioned below;

•

$375 million received by Transco from the issuance of senior unsecured notes in August 2011;

•

$300 million paid to retire Transco’s senior unsecured notes that matured in August 2011;

•

$300 million received in revolver borrowings from WPZ’s $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility used for WPZ’s acquisition of a
24.5 percent interest in Gulfstream from us in May 2011. This obligation was transferred to WPZ’s new $2 billion unsecured credit facility at its inception in June 2011;

•

$150 million paid to retire WPZ’s senior unsecured notes that matured in June 2011;

•

We paid $457 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2011;

•

$425 million in net borrowings and payments related to WPZ’s revolving credit facility in 2011.


•

$369 million received from WPZ’s December 2010 equity offering used primarily to reduce revolver borrowings mentioned below and to fund a
portion of WPZ’s acquisition of a midstream business in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale in December 2010;

•

$200 million received in revolver borrowings from WPZ’s $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility primarily used for WPZ’s general
partnership purposes and to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid for WPZ’s acquisition of certain gathering and processing assets in Colorado’s Piceance basin in November 2010;

•

$600 million received from WPZ’s public offering of 4.125 percent senior unsecured notes in November 2010 primarily used to fund a portion of
the cash consideration paid to our former exploration and production business for WPZ’s acquisition of certain gathering and processing assets in Colorado’s Piceance basin;

•

$430 million received in revolver borrowings from WPZ’s $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility primarily used to fund our increased ownership
in OPPL, a transaction that closed in September 2010;

•

$437 million received from a WPZ equity offering used to reduce WPZ’s revolver borrowings mentioned above;

•

$3.491 billion received by WPZ in February 2010 from the issuance of $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes related to our previously discussed
restructuring;

•

$3 billion of senior unsecured notes retired in February 2010 and $574 million paid in associated premiums utilizing proceeds from the $3.5 billion
debt issuance;

•

$250 million received from revolver borrowings on WPZ’s $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility in February 2010 to repay a term loan;

•

We paid $284 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2010.


•

We received $595 million net cash from the issuance of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75 percent senior unsecured notes due 2020 to
fund general corporate expenses and capital expenditures;

•

We paid $256 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2009.


Investing activities

Significant transactions include:


•

Capital expenditures totaled $2.8 billion in 2011;

•

We contributed $137 million to our Laurel Mountain equity investment.


•

Capital expenditures totaled $2.8 billion in 2010. Included is approximately $599 million, including closing adjustments, related to our former
exploration and production business’ acquisition in the Marcellus Shale in July 2010;

•

We paid approximately $949 million, including closing adjustments, for our former exploration and production business’ December 2010 business
purchase, consisting primarily of oil and gas properties in the Bakken Shale;

•

We contributed $488 million to our investments, including a $424 million cash payment for WPZ’s September 2010 acquisition of an increased
interest in OPPL;

•

We paid $150 million for WPZ’s December 2010 business purchase, consisting primarily of certain midstream assets in the Marcellus Shale.


•

Capital expenditures totaled $2.4 billion, more than half of which related to our former exploration and production businesses. Included was a $253
million payment by our former exploration and production business for the purchase of additional properties in the Piceance basin;

•

We received $148 million as a distribution from Gulfstream following its debt offering;

•

We contributed $142 million to our investments, including $106 million related to our Laurel Mountain equity investment and $20 million related to
our Gulfstream equity investment.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Guarantees of Debt or Other
Commitments

We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Notes 9, 11, 15
and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs.

Contractual Obligations

The table below summarizes
the maturity dates of our contractual obligations at December 31, 2011:


(1)

Includes a right-of-way agreement with the Jicarilla Apache Nation, which is considered an operating lease. We are required to make a fixed annual
payment of $7.5 million and an additional annual payment, which varies depending on per-unit NGL margins and the volume of gas gathered by our gathering facilities subject to the right-of-way agreement. The table above for years 2013 and thereafter
does not include such variable amounts related to this agreement as the variable amount is not yet determinable.

(2)

Includes an estimated $2.2 billion long-term ethane purchase obligation with index-based pricing terms that is reflected in this table at December
31, 2011 prices. This obligation is part of an overall exchange agreement whereby volumes we transport on OPPL are sold at a third-party fractionator in Conway, Kansas, and we are subsequently obligated to purchase ethane volumes at Mont
Belvieu. The purchased ethane volumes may be utilized or resold at comparable prices in the Mont Belvieu market.

(3)

Does not include estimated contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We made contributions to our pension and other
postretirement benefit plans of $83 million in 2011 and $76 million in 2010. In 2012, we expect to contribute approximately $94 million to these plans (see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Tax-qualified pension
plans are required to meet minimum contribution requirements. In the past, we have contributed amounts to our tax-qualified pension plans in excess of the minimum required contribution. These excess amounts can be used to offset future minimum
contribution requirements. During 2011, we contributed $60 million to our tax-qualified pension plans. In addition to these contributions, a portion of the excess contributions was used to meet the minimum contribution requirements. During 2012, we
expect to contribute approximately $70 million to our tax-qualified pension plans and use excess amounts to satisfy minimum contribution requirements. Additionally, estimated future minimum funding requirements may vary significantly from historical
requirements if actual results differ significantly from estimated results for assumptions such as returns on plan assets, interest rates, retirement rates, mortality, and other significant assumptions or by changes to current legislation and
regulations.

(4)

We have not included income tax liabilities in the table above. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of income
taxes, including our contingent tax liability reserves.

Effects of Inflation

Our operations have historically not been materially affected by inflation. Approximately 58 percent of our gross
property, plant, and equipment is comprised of our interstate gas pipelines. These assets are subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC
practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost-based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such
increased costs. For the remainder of our business, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by both competition for specialized services and specific price changes in crude oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in
general inflation. Crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices are particularly sensitive to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) production levels and/or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near
future, as well as general economic conditions. However, our exposure to certain of these price changes is reduced through the use of hedging instruments and the fee-based nature of certain of our services.

Environmental

We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and/or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not
own (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We
are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $47 million, all of which are included
in

accrued liabilities

and

regulatory liabilities, deferred income and other

on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011. We will seek recovery of approximately $10 million of these accrued costs through future natural
gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded


from operations. During 2011, we paid approximately $8 million for cleanup and/or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $10 million in 2012 for these activities.
Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2011, certain assessment studies were
still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type, and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the
final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors.

We are also
subject to the Federal Clean Air Act (Act) and to the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (1990 Amendments), which added significantly to the existing requirements established by the Act. Pursuant to requirements of the 1990 Amendments and EPA
rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground-level ozone, we have installed air pollution controls on existing sources at certain facilities in order to reduce ozone emissions.

In March 2008, the EPA promulgated a new, lower National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for ground-level ozone.
Within two years, the EPA was expected to designate new eight-hour ozone nonattainment areas. However, in September 2009, the EPA announced it would reconsider the 2008 NAAQS for ground level ozone to ensure that the standards were clearly grounded
in science and were protective of both public health and the environment. As a result, the EPA delayed designation of new eight-hour ozone nonattainment areas under the 2008 standards until the reconsideration is complete. In January 2010, the EPA
proposed to further reduce the ground-level ozone NAAQS from the March 2008 levels

.

In September 2011, the EPA announced it would not move forward with the proposed 2010 ozone NAAQS. Instead, the EPA will implement the 2008 ozone NAAQS that
was stayed during the reconsideration process. The EPA is expected to designate ozone nonattainment areas under the 2008 NAAQS in second quarter 2012 and we are unable at this time to estimate the cost of additions that may be required to meet this
new regulation. However, designation of new eight-hour ozone nonattainment areas are expected to result in additional federal and state regulatory actions that will likely impact our operations and increase the cost of additions to

property,
plant and equipment — net

on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Additionally, in August 2010, the EPA
promulgated National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) regulations that will impact our operations. The emission control additions required to comply with the NESHAP regulations are estimated to include capital costs in the
range of $24 million to $32 million through 2013, the compliance date.

In June 2010, the
EPA promulgated a final rule establishing a new one-hour sulfur dioxide (SO


) NAAQS. The effective date of the new SO


standard was August 23, 2010. This new standard is subject to challenge in federal court. EPA has not adopted final modeling guidance. We are unable at this time to estimate the cost of additions
that may be required to meet this new regulation.

In February 2010, the EPA promulgated a
final rule establishing a new one-hour nitrogen dioxide (NO


)
NAAQS. The effective date of the new NO


standard was
April 12, 2010. This new standard is subject to numerous challenges in the federal court. We are unable at this time to estimate the cost of additions that may be required to meet this new regulation.

Our interstate natural gas pipelines consider prudently incurred environmental assessment and remediation costs and the
costs associated with compliance with environmental standards to be recoverable through rates.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Interest Rate Risk

Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio. Our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt, which mitigates the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. Any
borrowings under


our credit facilities could be at a variable interest rate and could expose us to the risk of increasing interest rates. The maturity of our long-term debt portfolio is partially influenced by
the expected lives of our operating assets. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

The
tables below provide information by maturity date about our interest rate risk-sensitive instruments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Long-term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted-average
interest rates by expected maturity dates. The fair value of our publicly traded long-term debt is valued using indicative year-end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on market rates and the prices of similar securities with
similar terms and credit ratings.

(1)

Includes unamortized discount and premium.

(2)

Excludes capital leases.

Commodity Price Risk

We are exposed to the impact of
fluctuations in the market price of natural gas and NGLs, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and energy commodity price correlations. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy-related assets, our
long-term energy-related contracts, and limited proprietary trading activities. Our management of the risks associated with these market fluctuations includes maintaining a conservative capital structure and significant liquidity, as well as using
various derivatives and nonderivative energy-related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to many factors, including changes in energy commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the
contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

We measure the risk in our portfolio using a value-at-risk methodology to estimate the potential one-day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolio. Value-at-risk requires a number of
key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolio. Our value-at-risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes
that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one-day loss in fair value of the portfolio will not exceed the value at risk. The simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices
and volatilities. In applying the value-at-risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolio in response
to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one-day holding period to execute. While a one-day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the
true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints.


We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts,
as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value-at-risk separately for these two categories. Contracts designated as normal purchases or sales and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk.

Trading

Our limited trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price-risk exposure. The fair value of our trading derivatives was a
net asset of less than $0.1 million at December 31, 2011. The value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was less than $0.1 million at December 31, 2011 and zero at December 31, 2010.

Nontrading

Our nontrading portfolio consists of derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities:

The fair value of our nontrading derivatives was a net asset of $1 million at December 31, 2011.

The value-at-risk for derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes was zero at December 31, 2011,
and 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $1 million to a low of zero.

Certain of the derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes in 2011 were accounted for as cash flow hedges but realized during the year. Of the total fair value on nontrading derivatives, cash flow
hedges had a net asset value of zero as of December 31, 2011. Though these contracts would be included in our value-at-risk calculation, any changes in the fair value of the effective portion of these hedge contracts would generally not be
reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings.

Trading Policy

We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities. These policies cover authority and
delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities, and term and exposure limitations.

Foreign
Currency Risk

Net assets of our consolidated foreign operations, whose functional currency is the local
currency, are located primarily in Canada were approximately $690 million and $580 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in
currencies other than their functional currency. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of translating the local functional currency
into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar would have changed

stockholders’ equity

by approximately $138 million at December 31, 2011.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

MANAGEMENT’S ANNUAL REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER

FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a – 15(f) and 15d – 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Our internal controls over financial reporting are designed
to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with
authorization of our management and board of directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our
financial statements.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations
including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and
presentation.

Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO) in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework.

Based on our assessment, we concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.

Ernst & Young LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, has audited our internal control over
financial reporting, as stated in their report which is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

The Williams Companies, Inc.

We have audited The Williams Companies, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011,
based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Williams Companies, Inc.’s management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material
weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, The Williams Companies, Inc. maintained, in all material
respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of The Williams Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, of The Williams Companies, Inc. and our report dated February 27, 2012, expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Tulsa, Oklahoma

February 27, 2012


Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

The Williams Companies, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet of The Williams Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedules based on our audits. We did not audit the financial statements of Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream) (a limited liability corporation in which the Company has a 50 percent interest). The
Company’s investment in Gulfstream constituted two percent of the Company’s assets as of both December 31, 2011 and 2010 and the Company’s equity earnings in the net income of Gulfstream constituted five and seventeen percent of the
Company’s income from continuing operations before income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, Gulfstream’s financial statements were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished to us, and our
opinion on the 2011 and 2010 consolidated financial statements, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Gulfstream, is based solely on the report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits and
the report of other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report
of other auditors, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of The Williams Companies, Inc. at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), The Williams Companies, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 27, 2012, expressed an
unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Tulsa, Oklahoma

February 27, 2012


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Members of Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C.

We have audited the balance sheet of Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C., (the “Company”), as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related statements of operations, cash flows, and members’ equity and comprehensive income for the years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.

We conducted
our audit in accordance with the auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a
basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such
opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the results
of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

Houston, Texas

February 23, 2012


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

See accompanying notes.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

See accompanying notes.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY – (Continued)

See accompanying notes.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

(1)    Increases to property, plant, and equipment

$

(2,953

)

$

(2,755

)

$

(2,314

)

Changes in related accounts payable and accrued liabilities


(33

)

(73

)

Capital expenditures

$

(2,796

)

$

(2,788

)

$

(2,387

)

(2)

Except for cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2011, includes cash from our former exploration and production business (See Note 2).

See accompanying notes.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1. Description of Business, Basis of Presentation, and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Description of Business

Our operations are located principally in the United States and are organized into the following reporting segments:
Williams Partners and Midstream Canada & Olefins. All remaining business activities are included in Other.

Williams Partners consists of our consolidated master limited partnership, Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ) and includes gas pipeline and domestic midstream businesses. The gas pipeline businesses include 100
percent of Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Company, LLC (Transco), 100 percent of Northwest Pipeline GP (Northwest Pipeline), and 49 percent of Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream). WPZ’s midstream operations are composed of
significant, large-scale operations in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions, operations in Pennsylvania’s Marcellus Shale region, and various equity investments in domestic natural gas gathering and processing assets and natural gas liquid
(NGL) fractionation and transportation assets. WPZ’s midstream assets also include substantial operations and investments in the Four Corners region, as well as an NGL fractionator and storage facilities near Conway, Kansas.

Our Midstream Canada & Olefins segment includes our oil sands off-gas processing plant near Fort McMurray,
Alberta, our NGL/olefin fractionation facility and butylene/butane splitter facility at Redwater, Alberta, our NGL light-feed olefins cracker in Geismar, Louisiana, along with associated ethane and propane pipelines, and our refinery grade splitter
in Louisiana.

Other includes other business activities that are not operating segments, as well as corporate
operations.

Basis of Presentation

In May 2011, we contributed a 24.5 percent interest in Gulfstream to WPZ in exchange for aggregate consideration of $297
million of cash, 632,584 limited partner units, and an increase in the capital account of its general partner to allow us to maintain our 2 percent general partner interest. Williams Partners now holds a 49 percent interest in Gulfstream. We also
own an additional 1 percent interest in Gulfstream reported in Other. Prior period segment disclosures have not been adjusted for this transaction as the impact, which was less than 2.5 percent of Williams Partners’ segment profit for all
periods affected, was not material. Equity earnings related to this interest in Gulfstream that have not been recast for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 are $12 million, $32 million, and $30 million, respectively.

Master limited partnership

At December 31, 2011, we own approximately 75 percent of the interests in WPZ, including the interests of the general
partner, which are wholly owned by us, and incentive distribution rights.

WPZ is self funding and maintains
separate lines of bank credit and cash management accounts. Cash distributions from WPZ to us, including any associated with our incentive distribution rights, occur through the normal partnership distributions from WPZ to all partners.

Discontinued operations

WPX separation

On December 31, 2011, we completed the
tax-free spin-off of our 100 percent interest in WPX Energy, Inc. (WPX), to our shareholders. WPX was formed in April 2011 to hold our former exploration and production business. The spin-off was completed by means of a special stock dividend, which
consisted of a distribution of one share of WPX common stock for every three shares of our common stock.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

On December 30, 2011, we entered into a Separation and Distribution
Agreement with WPX which at the time was a wholly owned subsidiary, pursuant to which WPX would be legally and structurally separated from us. In addition to, and concurrently with, this agreement, we entered into certain ancillary agreements with
WPX, including, (i) an Employee Matters Agreement that sets forth agreements as to certain employment, compensation, and benefits matters, (ii) a Tax Sharing Agreement that governs rights and obligations after the spin-off with respect to
matters regarding U.S. Federal, state, local, and foreign income taxes and other taxes, including tax liabilities and benefits, attributes, returns, and contests, and (iii) a Transition Services Agreement under which we or certain of our
subsidiaries will provide WPX with certain services for a limited time to help ensure an orderly transition following the Distribution Date.

For periods prior to the spin-off, the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes reflect the results of operations and financial position of our former exploration and production business
as discontinued operations. At December 31, 2011, all net assets of our former exploration and production business have been removed from our consolidated balance sheet as the spin-off was complete. (See Note 2.)

Unless indicated otherwise, the information in the Notes to the consolidated Financial Statements relates to our
continuing operations.

Accounting standards issued but not yet adopted

In June 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-5, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220)
Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (ASU 2011-5). ASU 2011-5 requires presentation of net income and other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement or in two separate, but consecutive, statements. ASU 2011-5 requires
separate presentation in both net income and other comprehensive income of reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income. The new guidance does not change the items reported in other
comprehensive income, nor affect how earnings per share is calculated and presented. We currently report net income in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and report other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
In December 2011, The FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-12, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassifications of Items Out of Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-05” (ASU 2011-12). ASU 2011-12 defers the effective date for only the presentation requirements related to reclassifications in ASU 2011-5. During this deferral period, ASU
2011-12 states that we should continue to report reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income consistent with the presentation requirements in effect before ASU 2011-05. All other requirements in ASU 2011-05 are not affected by
ASU 2011-12, including the requirement to report comprehensive income either in a single continuous financial statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements. Both standards are effective beginning the first quarter of 2012, with
retrospective application to prior periods. We will apply the new guidance for both standards beginning in 2012.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of our corporate parent and our majority-owned or controlled
subsidiaries and investments. We apply the equity method of accounting for investments in unconsolidated companies in which we and our subsidiaries own 20 to 50 percent of the voting interest, otherwise exercise significant influence over operating
and financial policies of the company, or where majority ownership does not provide us with control due to significant participatory rights of other owners.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Use of estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Significant estimates and assumptions include:

•

Impairment assessments of investments and long-lived assets;

•

Litigation-related contingencies;

•

Environmental remediation obligations;

•

Realization of deferred income tax assets;

•

Asset retirement obligations;

•

Pension and postretirement valuation variables.

These estimates are discussed further throughout these notes.

Regulatory accounting

Transco and Northwest Pipeline are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Their rates established by the FERC are designed to recover the costs of providing the regulated services,
and their competitive environment makes it probable that such rates can be charged and collected. Therefore, our management has determined that it is appropriate to account for and report regulatory assets and liabilities related to these operations
consistent with the economic effect of the way in which their rates are established. Accounting for these businesses that are regulated can differ from the accounting requirements for nonregulated businesses. The components of our regulatory assets
and liabilities relate to the effects of deferred taxes on equity funds used during construction, asset retirement obligations, fuel cost differentials, levelized incremental depreciation, negative salvage, and postretirement benefits.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents

includes amounts primarily invested in funds with high-quality, short-term securities and instruments that are issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government. These have
maturity dates of three months or less when acquired.

Accounts receivable

Accounts receivable are carried on a gross basis, with no discounting, less the allowance for doubtful accounts. We
estimate the allowance for doubtful accounts based on existing economic conditions, the financial conditions of our customers, and the amount and age of past due accounts. We consider receivables past due if full payment is not received by the
contractual due date. Interest income related to past due accounts receivable is generally recognized at the time full payment is received or collectability is assured. Past due accounts are generally written off against the allowance for doubtful
accounts only after all collection attempts have been exhausted.

Inventory valuation

All

inventories

are stated at the lower of cost or market. The cost of inventories is primarily determined using
the average-cost method. We determine the cost of certain natural gas inventories held by Transco using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method. There was no LIFO inventory at December 31, 2011. LIFO inventory at December 31, 2010 was $9
million.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Property, plant, and equipment

Property, plant, and equipment is recorded at cost. We base the carrying value of these assets on estimates, assumptions,
and judgments relative to capitalized costs, useful lives, and salvage values.

As regulated entities,
Northwest Pipeline and Transco provide for depreciation using the straight-line method at FERC-prescribed rates. Depreciation for nonregulated entities is provided primarily on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives, except for certain
offshore facilities that apply a declining balance method. (See Note 9.)

Gains or losses from the ordinary
sale or retirement of property, plant, and equipment for regulated pipelines are credited or charged to accumulated depreciation; other gains or losses are recorded in

other (income) expense — net

included in

operating income
(loss)

or

other (income) expense — net

below

operating income (loss)

.

Ordinary
maintenance and repair costs are generally expensed as incurred. Costs of major renewals and replacements are capitalized as property, plant, and equipment.

We record an asset and a liability equal to the present value of each expected future asset retirement obligation (ARO) at the time the liability is initially incurred, typically when the asset is
acquired or constructed. The ARO asset is depreciated in a manner consistent with the depreciation of the underlying physical asset. As regulated entities, Northwest Pipeline and Transco record the ARO asset depreciation offset to a regulatory
asset. We measure changes in the liability due to passage of time by applying an interest method of allocation. This amount is recognized as an increase in the carrying amount of the liability and as a corresponding accretion expense included in

costs and operating expenses

, except for regulated entities, for which the liability is offset by a regulatory asset as management expects to recover amounts in future rates. The regulatory asset is amortized commensurate with our collection
of those costs in rates.

Measurements of AROs include, as a component of future expected costs, an estimate
of the price that a third party would demand, and could expect to receive, for bearing the uncertainties inherent in the obligations, sometimes referred to as a market-risk premium.

Contingent liabilities

We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies, including environmental matters, when we assess that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These liabilities
are calculated based upon our assumptions and estimates with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss and upon advice of legal counsel, engineers, or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matters. These calculations are made
without consideration of any potential recovery from third-parties. We recognize insurance recoveries or reimbursements from others when realizable. Revisions to these liabilities are generally reflected in income when new or different facts or
information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions or estimates.

Cash
flows from revolving credit facilities

Proceeds and payments related to borrowings under our credit
facilities are reflected in the financing activities of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on a gross basis.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Treasury stock

Treasury stock purchases are accounted for under the cost method whereby the entire cost of the acquired stock is recorded
as treasury stock. Gains and losses on the subsequent reissuance of shares are credited or charged to

capital

in excess of par value

using the average-cost method.

Derivative instruments and hedging activities

We may utilize derivatives to manage a portion of our commodity price risk. These instruments consist primarily of swap
agreements and forward contracts involving short- and long-term purchases and sales of physical energy commodities. We report the fair value of derivatives, except for those for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected,
in

other current assets and deferred charges; regulatory assets, deferred charges, and other; accrued liabilities;

or

regulatory liabilities, deferred income, and other

. We determine the current and noncurrent classification based on
the timing of expected future cash flows of individual trades. We report these amounts on a gross basis. Additionally, we report cash collateral receivables and payables with our counterparties on a gross basis.

The accounting for the changes in fair value of a commodity derivative can be summarized as follows:

We may elect the normal purchases and normal sales exception for certain short- and
long-term purchases and sales of physical energy commodities. Under accrual accounting, any change in the fair value of these derivatives is not reflected on the balance sheet after the initial election of the exception.

We have also designated a hedging relationship for certain commodity derivatives. For a derivative to qualify for
designation in a hedging relationship, it must meet specific criteria and we must maintain appropriate documentation. We establish hedging relationships pursuant to our risk management policies. We evaluate the hedging relationships at the inception
of the hedge and on an ongoing basis to determine whether the hedging relationship is, and is expected to remain, highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows attributable to the underlying risk being hedged. We also
regularly assess whether the hedged forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. If a derivative ceases to be or is no longer expected to be highly effective, or if we believe the likelihood of occurrence of the hedged forecasted transaction is
no longer probable, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively, and future changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized currently in

revenues

or

costs and operating expenses

.

For commodity derivatives designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the change in fair value of the
derivative is reported in

accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(AOCI) and reclassified into earnings in the period in which the hedged item affects earnings. Any ineffective portion of the derivative’s change in fair value is
recognized currently in

revenues

or

costs and operating expenses

. Gains or losses deferred in AOCI associated with terminated derivatives, derivatives that cease to be highly effective hedges, derivatives for which the forecasted
transaction is reasonably possible but no longer probable of occurring, and cash flow hedges that have been otherwise discontinued remain in AOCI until the hedged item affects earnings. If it becomes probable that the forecasted transaction
designated as the hedged item in a cash flow hedge will not occur, any gain or loss deferred in AOCI is recognized in

revenues

or

costs and operating expenses

at that time. The change in likelihood of a forecasted transaction is a
judgmental decision that includes qualitative assessments made by management.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

For commodity derivatives that are not designated in a hedging
relationship, and for which we have not elected the normal purchases and normal sales exception, we report changes in fair value currently in

revenues

or

costs and operating expenses.

Certain gains and losses on derivative instruments included in the Consolidated Statement of Operations are netted
together to a single net gain or loss, while other gains and losses are reported on a gross basis. Gains and losses recorded on a net basis include:

•

Unrealized gains and losses on all derivatives that are not designated as hedges and for which we have not elected the normal purchases and normal
sales exception;

•

The ineffective portion of unrealized gains and losses on derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges;

•

Realized gains and losses on all derivatives that settle financially other than natural gas derivatives for NGL processing activities;

•

Realized gains and losses on derivatives entered into as a pre-contemplated buy/sell arrangement.

Realized gains and losses on derivatives that require physical delivery, as well as natural gas derivatives for NGL
processing activities and which are not held for trading purposes nor were entered into as a pre-contemplated buy/sell arrangement, are recorded on a gross basis. In reaching our conclusions on this presentation, we considered whether we act as
principal in the transaction; whether we have the risks and rewards of ownership, including credit risk; and whether we have latitude in establishing prices.

Revenues

Revenues from Williams Partners’ gas
pipeline businesses are primarily from services pursuant to long-term firm transportation and storage agreements. These agreements provide for a reservation charge based on the volume of contracted capacity and a commodity charge based on the volume
of gas delivered, both at rates specified in our FERC tariffs. We recognize revenues for reservation charges ratably over the contract period regardless of the volume of natural gas that is transported or stored. Revenues for commodity charges, from
both firm and interruptible transportation services, and storage injection and withdrawal services, are recognized when natural gas is delivered at the agreed upon delivery point or when natural gas is injected or withdrawn from the storage
facility.

In the course of providing transportation services to customers, we may receive different
quantities of gas from shippers than the quantities delivered on behalf of those shippers. The resulting imbalances are primarily settled through the purchase and sale of gas with our customers under terms provided for in our FERC tariffs. Revenue
is recognized from the sale of gas upon settlement of the transportation and exchange imbalances.

As a result
of the ratemaking process, certain revenues collected by us may be subject to refunds upon the issuance of final orders by the FERC in pending rate proceedings. We record estimates of rate refund liabilities considering our and other third-party
regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel, and other risks.

Revenues from Williams Partners’ midstream
operations include those derived from natural gas gathering and processing services and are performed under volumetric-based fee contracts, keep-whole, agreements and percent-of-liquids arrangements. Revenues under volumetric-based fee contracts are
recorded when services have been performed. Under keep-whole and percent-of-liquids processing contracts, we retain the rights to all or a portion of the NGLs extracted from the producers’ natural gas stream and recognize revenues when the
extracted NGLs are sold and delivered.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Oil gathering and transportation revenues and offshore production
handling fees of Williams Partners’ midstream operations are recognized when the services have been performed. Certain offshore production handling contracts contain fixed payment terms that result in the deferral of revenues until such
services have been performed.

Within Williams Partners, we market NGLs that we purchase from our producer
customers as part of the overall service provided to producers. Revenues from marketing NGLs are recognized when the products have been sold and delivered.

Storage revenues under prepaid contracted storage capacity contracts primarily within Williams Partners are recognized evenly over the life of the contract as services are provided.

Our midstream Canada business has processing and fractionation operations where we retain certain NGLs and olefins from
an upgrader’s off-gas stream and we recognize revenues when the fractionated products are sold and delivered. Our domestic olefins business produces olefins from purchased feed-stock, and we recognize revenues when the olefins are sold and
delivered.

Impairment of long-lived assets and investments

We evaluate our long-lived assets of identifiable business activities for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate, in our management’s judgment, that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. When an indicator of impairment has occurred, we compare our management’s estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
attributable to the assets to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether an impairment has occurred and we apply a probability-weighted approach to consider the likelihood of different cash flow assumptions and possible outcomes including
selling in the near term or holding for the remaining estimated useful life. If an impairment of the carrying value has occurred, we determine the amount of the impairment recognized in the financial statements by estimating the fair value of the
assets and recording a loss for the amount that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value.

For
assets identified to be disposed of in the future and considered held for sale, we compare the carrying value to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell to determine if recognition of an impairment is required. Until the assets are disposed
of, the estimated fair value, which includes estimated cash flows from operations until the assumed date of sale, is recalculated when related events or circumstances change.

We evaluate our investments for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in our management’s
judgment, that the carrying value of such investments may have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in value. When evidence of loss in value has occurred, we compare our estimate of fair value of the investment to the carrying value of the
investment to determine whether an impairment has occurred. If the estimated fair value is less than the carrying value and we consider the decline in value to be other-than-temporary, the excess of the carrying value over the fair value is
recognized in the consolidated financial statements as an impairment charge.

Judgments and assumptions are
inherent in our management’s estimate of undiscounted future cash flows and an asset’s or investment’s fair value. Additionally, judgment is used to determine the probability of sale with respect to assets considered for disposal.

Interest capitalized

We capitalize interest during construction on major projects with construction periods of at least three months and a
total project cost in excess of $1 million. Interest is capitalized on borrowed funds and where


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

regulation by the FERC exists, on internally generated funds. The latter is included in

other income (expense) — net

below

operating income (loss)

. The rates used by regulated
companies are calculated in accordance with FERC rules. Rates used by nonregulated companies are based on the average interest rate on debt.

Employee stock-based awards

Stock options are valued at
the date of award, which does not precede the approval date, and compensation cost is recognized on a straight-line basis, net of estimated forfeitures, over the requisite service period. The purchase price per share for stock options may not be
less than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. Stock options generally become exercisable over a three-year period from the date of grant and can be subject to accelerated vesting if certain future stock prices or specific
financial performance targets are achieved. Stock options generally expire ten years after the grant.

Restricted stock units are generally valued at market value on the grant date and generally vest over three years.
Restricted stock unit compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, is generally recognized over the vesting period on a straight-line basis.

Income taxes

We include the operations of our subsidiaries
in our consolidated tax return. Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method and are provided on all temporary differences between the financial basis and the tax basis of our assets and liabilities. Our management’s judgment
and income tax assumptions are used to determine the levels, if any, of valuation allowances associated with deferred tax assets.

Effective with the spin-off of WPX on December 31, 2011, certain state and federal tax attributes (primarily alternative minimum tax credits) will be allocated between us and WPX pursuant to the
consolidated return regulations. Although the final allocation of these tax attributes cannot be determined until the consolidated tax returns for tax year 2011 are complete, an estimate of the allocated tax attributes has been recorded in 2011.

Earnings (loss) per common share

Basic earnings (loss) per common share

is based on the sum of the weighted-average number of common shares
outstanding and vested restricted stock units.

Diluted earnings (loss) per common share

includes any dilutive effect of stock options, nonvested restricted stock units and, for applicable periods presented, convertible debt, unless otherwise
noted.

Foreign currency translation

Certain of our foreign subsidiaries use the Canadian dollar as their functional currency. Assets and liabilities of such
foreign subsidiaries are translated at the spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the combined statements of operations are translated into the U.S. dollar at the average exchange rates in effect during the applicable period.
The resulting cumulative translation adjustment is recorded as a separate component of

accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

.

Transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at the time such transactions arise. Subsequent changes in exchange rates result in
transaction gains and losses which are reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Discontinued Operations

In addition to the accounting policies previously discussed, the following policies were considered significant to our
former exploration and production business.

•

Significant estimates and assumptions included the valuation of oil and natural gas reserves, valuation of derivatives and hedge accounting
correlations and probability;

•

Property, plant and equipment related to oil and gas exploration and production activities were accounted for under the successful efforts method.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization was provided under the units-of-production method on a field basis;

•

Goodwill was evaluated at least annually for impairment by first comparing our management’s estimate of the fair value of a reporting unit with
its carrying value, including goodwill. As a result of significant declines in forward natural gas prices during the third quarter of 2010, we performed an impairment assessment of our goodwill which resulted in a $1 billion impairment (See Note 2);

•

Revenues for sales of natural gas were recognized when the product was sold and delivered;

•

Impairments of proved properties, including developed and undeveloped, were assessed using estimated future undiscounted cash flows on a field
basis. Unproved properties included lease acquisition costs and costs of acquired unproved reserves. These costs were assessed for impairment as conditions warranted.

Note 2. Discontinued Operations

On December 31, 2011, we completed the tax-free spin-off of our interest in WPX to our
shareholders. The spin-off was completed by means of a special stock dividend. (See Note 1.) The dividend to our shareholders on December 31, 2011, represented approximately $10.3 billion of assets, $4.8 billion of liabilities and $5.5 billion
of net equity, which includes approximately $219 million of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI). The carrying value of AOCI is primarily related to net unrealized gains from WPX’s cash flow hedges associated with energy commodity
derivatives.

The following summarized results of discontinued operations reflect the results of operations of
our former exploration and production business as discontinued operations. Each period presented includes the results of intercompany transactions with our continuing business, such as sales of commodities and charges for gathering, processing and
transportation services. Although we expect certain of these types of transactions to continue in the future, the expected continuing cash flows are not considered significant; thus, the operations and cash flows of our former exploration and
production business are considered to be eliminated from our ongoing operations. The summarized results of discontinued operations also include certain of our former Venezuela operations, whose facilities were expropriated by the Venezuelan
government in May 2009, and settlement of various items pertaining to operations discontinued prior to periods covered by this report.

The December 31, 2010 summarized assets and liabilities of discontinued operations reflects our former exploration and production business. At December 31, 2011, the net assets of this former
business have been eliminated from our consolidated balance sheet as the spin-off was complete.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Summarized Results of Discontinued Operations

Income (loss) from discontinued operations before impairments, gain on deconsolidation
and income taxes

for 2011 and 2010 primarily reflect the results of operations of our discontinued exploration and production business (see Note 1), including $42 million of transaction costs related to the spin-off recognized in 2011.

Income (loss) from discontinued operations before impairments, gain on deconsolidation and income taxes

for 2009 primarily reflects $420 million of income from our discontinued exploration and production business. Also reflected are $104 million of losses from our discontinued Venezuela operations and a $15 million gain related to our former
coal operations.

Impairments

in 2011 reflect $367 million and $180 million of impairments of
capitalized costs of certain natural gas producing properties of our discontinued exploration and production business in the Powder River basin and the Barnett Shale, respectively, $29 million of write-downs to estimates of fair value less costs to
sell the assets of our discontinued exploration and production business in the Arkoma basin, and a noncash impairment of $179 million in connection with the spin-off of WPX to reflect the difference between the carrying value of our investment in
WPX and the estimated fair value of WPX at the time of spin-off. See further discussion below regarding the determination of the fair value of WPX. These nonrecurring fair value measurements fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

Impairments

in 2010 include a $1,003 million impairment of domestic goodwill (to an implied fair value
of zero at the assessment date) and $678 million of impairments of capitalized costs of certain natural gas producing properties in the Barnett Shale and acquired unproved reserves in the Piceance basin of our discontinued exploration and production
business (to their estimated fair value of $320 million at the assessment date). These nonrecurring fair value measurements fell within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

For the goodwill evaluation, we used an income approach (discounted cash flow) for valuing reserves. The significant
inputs into the valuation of proved and unproved reserves included estimated reserve quantities, forward natural gas prices, anticipated drilling and operating costs, anticipated production curves, income taxes, and appropriate discount rates.

For our assessment of the carrying value of our natural gas producing properties and costs of acquired
unproved reserves, we utilized estimates of future cash flows, in certain cases including purchase offers received. Significant judgments and assumptions in these assessments are similar to those used in the goodwill evaluation


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

and include estimates of natural gas reserve quantities, estimates of future natural gas prices using a forward NYMEX curve adjusted for locational basis differentials, drilling plans, expected
capital costs, and an applicable discount rate commensurate with risk of the underlying cash flow estimates.

Impairments

for 2009 primarily reflect a $211 million impairment of our Venezuela property, plant, and equipment
that was expropriated by the Venezuelan government in 2009. We are pursuing collection of claims related to that expropriation. Also included is an impairment charge of $20 million related to natural gas producing properties and acquired
unproved reserves of our discontinued exploration and production business and an $11 million impairment of a cost-based investment related to our interest in a Venezuelan corporation that owns and operates oil and gas activities.

Gain on deconsolidation

reflects the gain recognized when we deconsolidated the entities that owned and operated
our Venezuela gas compression facilities prior to their expropriation by the Venezuelan government in 2009.

(Provision) benefit for income taxes

for 2011 includes a $26 million net tax benefit associated with the
write-down of certain indebtedness related to our former power operations.

(Provision) benefit for income
taxes

for 2009 includes a $76 million benefit from the reversal of deferred tax balances related to our discontinued Venezuela operations.

Impairment of our investment in WPX

In conjunction with
accounting for the spin-off of WPX, we evaluated whether there was an indicator of impairment of the carrying value of the investment at the date of the spin-off. Because the market capitalization of WPX as determined by its closing stock price on
December 30, 2011 pursuant to the “when issued” trading market was less than our investment in WPX, we determined that an indicator of impairment was present and conducted an evaluation of the fair value of our investment in WPX at
the date of the spin-off.

To determine the fair value at the time of spin-off, we considered several
valuation approaches to derive a range of fair value estimates. These included consideration of the “when issued” stock price at December 30, 2011, an income approach, and a market approach. While the “when issued” stock
price approach utilizes the most observable inputs of the three approaches, we note that the short trading duration, low trading volumes and lack of liquidity in the “when issued” market, among other factors, serve to limit this input in
being solely determinative of the fair value of WPX. As such, we also considered the other valuation approaches in estimating the overall fair value of WPX, though giving preferential weighting to the “when issued” stock price approach.

Key variables and assumptions included the application of a control premium of up to 30 percent to the
December 30, 2011 “when issued” trading value based on transactions involving energy companies. For the income approach, we estimated the fair value of WPX using a discounted cash flow analysis of their oil and natural gas reserves,
primarily adjusted for long-term debt. Implicit in this approach was the use of forward market prices and discount rates that considered the risk of the respective reserves. After tax discount rates assumed to be used by market participants were an
average of 11.25 percent for proved reserves, 13.25 percent to 15.25 percent for probable reserves and 15.25 percent to 18.25 percent for possible reserves. For the market approach, we considered multiples of cash flows derived from the value of
comparable companies utilizing their respective traded stock prices, adjusted for a control premium consistent with levels noted above. Using these methodologies, we computed a range of estimated fair values from $4.5 billion to $6.7 billion. After
giving preferential weighting to the “when issued” valuation, we computed an estimated fair value of approximately $5.5 billion.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

As a result of this evaluation, we have recorded an impairment charge
which is nondeductible for tax purposes. This amount served to reduce the investment basis of the net assets accounted for as a dividend upon the spin-off at December 31, 2011.

Summarized Assets and Liabilities of Discontinued Operations

Energy Commodity Derivatives Associated with Discontinued Operations

Our former exploration and production business produced, bought, and/or sold natural gas and crude oil at different
locations throughout the United States. It also entered into forward contracts to buy and sell natural gas to maximize the economic value of transportation agreements and storage capacity agreements. To reduce exposure to a decrease in revenues or
margins from fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil market prices, it entered into natural gas and crude oil futures contracts, swap agreements, and financial option contracts to mitigate the price risk on forecasted sales of natural gas and
crude oil. It also entered into basis swap agreements to reduce the locational price risk associated with its producing basins.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Gains and Losses

The following table presents pre-tax gains and losses for our former exploration and production business’ energy
commodity derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. The amounts previously recognized within

revenues

or

costs and operating expenses

are now presented within discontinued operations.

The following table presents pre-tax gains and losses for energy commodity derivatives
not designated as hedging instruments. The amounts previously recognized within

revenues

or

costs and operating expenses

are now presented within discontinued operations.

Recurring Fair Value Measurement Disclosures Related to Assets and Liabilities of Discontinued
Operations

The following table presents, by level within the fair value hierarchy, our assets and
liabilities related to discontinued operations that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis.

Energy derivatives included commodity based exchange-traded contracts and
over-the-counter (OTC) contracts. Exchange-traded contracts included futures, swaps, and options. OTC contracts included forwards, swaps and options.

The instruments included in these Level 1 measurements consisted of energy derivatives that were exchange-traded. Exchange-traded contracts included New York Mercantile Exchange and Intercontinental
Exchange contracts and were valued based on quoted prices in these active markets.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

The instruments included in these Level 2 measurements consisted
primarily of OTC instruments. Forward, swap, and option contracts included in Level 2 were valued using an income approach including present value techniques and option pricing models. Option contracts, which hedged future sales of production from
our discontinued exploration and production business, were structured as costless collars and were financially settled. They were valued using an industry standard Black-Scholes option pricing model. Significant inputs into these Level 2 valuations
included commodity prices, implied volatility by location, and interest rates, and considered executed transactions or broker quotes corroborated by other market data. These broker quotes were based on observable market prices at which transactions
could currently be executed. In certain instances where these inputs were not observable for all periods, relationships of observable market data and historical observations were used as a means to estimate fair value. Where observable inputs were
available for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, the instrument was categorized in Level 2.

The instruments in these Level 3 measurements primarily consisted of natural gas index transactions that were used by our
discontinued exploration and production business to manage physical requirements. These instruments were valued with a present value technique using inputs that may not have been readily observable or corroborated by other market data. These
instruments were classified within Level 3 because these inputs had a significant impact on the measurement of fair value. As the fair value of natural gas index transactions was primarily driven by the typically nominal differential transacted and
the market price, these transactions did not have a material impact on results of operations or liquidity.

The energy derivatives portfolio of our discontinued exploration and production business was largely comprised of
exchange-traded products or like products. Due to the nature of the products and tenure, market pricing was consistently obtainable. All pricing was reviewed on a daily basis and was formally validated with broker quotes and documented on a monthly
basis.

Reclassifications of fair value between Level 1, Level 2, and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, if
applicable, were made at the end of each quarter. No significant transfers between Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 occurred during the years ended December 31, 2011 or 2010. Additionally, activity associated with the derivatives classified as
Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy was not significant for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.

Indemnifications of WPX Matters

According to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement (See Note 1), we have indemnified WPX for certain contingent matters (See Note 16).

Guarantees on behalf of WPX

Following the spin-off of WPX, certain guarantees that were issued on behalf of WPX while it was a consolidated subsidiary remain with us. These primarily include guarantees of WPX performance under
a long-term transportation capacity agreement and a natural gas purchase contract, extending through 2017 and 2023, respectively. We estimate the maximum undiscounted potential future payment obligation as of December 31, 2011, under these
remaining guarantees is approximately $266 million. Our recorded liability for these guarantees, which considers our estimate of the fair value of the guarantees, is insignificant. Our fair value estimate is a Level 3 measurement within
the fair value hierarchy and considers probability weighted scenarios of potential performance and the likelihood of default by WPX.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Note 3. Investing Activities

Investing Income

(1)

Items also included in segment profit (loss). (See Note 18.)

In June 2010, we sold our 50 percent interest in Accroven SRL (Accroven) to the state-owned oil company, Petróleos
de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA) for $107 million.

Income (loss) from investments

in 2011 and 2010 includes gains of $11 million and $43 million, respectively, from the sale. The $11 million received in the first quarter of 2011 represents the first
of six quarterly payments, which was originally due from the buyer in October 2010. We will recognize the remaining payments as income upon future receipt.

Income (loss) from investments

in 2009 reflects a $75 million impairment charge related to an other-than-temporary loss in value associated with our Venezuelan investment in Accroven. Accroven owns
and operates gas processing facilities and an NGL fractionation plant for the exclusive benefit of PDVSA. The deteriorating circumstances in the first quarter of 2009 for our Venezuelan operations caused us to review our investment in Accroven. We
utilized a probability-weighted discounted cash flow analysis, which included an after-tax discount rate of 20 percent to reflect the risk associated with operating in Venezuela. Accroven was not part of the operations that were expropriated by the
Venezuelan government in May 2009.

Investments

(1)

As of December 31, 2011, 49 percent interest is held within Williams Partners, with the remaining 1 percent held within Other.

(2)

We account for these investments under the equity method due to the significant participatory rights of our partners such that we do not control the
investments.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Marketable equity securities are classified as available-for-sale. The
carrying value is reported at fair value with net unrealized appreciation reported as a component of other comprehensive income.

The difference between the carrying value of our equity investments and the underlying equity in the net assets of the investees is $62 million at December 31, 2011, primarily related to impairments
we previously recognized. These differences are amortized over the expected remaining life of the investees’ underlying assets.

We have recognized revenue of $23 million, $41 million, and $27 million from our equity method investees for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively, primarily related to OPPL and Discovery. We have recognized
costs and operating expenses of $234 million, $220 million, and $158 million with our equity method investees for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. We have $1 million and $2 million accounts receivable and $23 million and $20 million accounts
payable with our equity method investees at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.

WPZ has operating agreements with certain equity method investees. These operating agreements typically provide for
reimbursement or payment to WPZ for certain direct operational payroll and employee benefit costs, materials, supplies, and other charges and also for management services. We supplied a portion of these services, primarily those related to employees
since WPZ does not have any employees, to certain equity method investees. The total gross charges to equity method investees for these fees are $57 million, $38 million and $23 million for the years ended December 31,
2011, December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009, respectively.

In September 2010, we purchased
an additional 49 percent ownership interest in OPPL for $424 million. In June 2009, we purchased a 51 percent interest in Laurel Mountain for $133 million and invested $137 million and $43 million in Laurel Mountain in 2011 and 2010, respectively.
We also invested $30 million in Aux Sable Liquid Products LP (Aux Sable) in 2011.

Dividends and
distributions, including those presented below, received from companies accounted for by the equity method were $193 million, $175 million, and $282 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. These transactions reduced the carrying value of our
investments. These dividends and distributions primarily included:

The 2009 amount presented above includes a $148 million distribution from Gulfstream
following its debt offering.

Summarized Financial Position and Results of Operations of Equity Method Investments
(Unaudited)


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Note 4. Asset Sales, Impairments and Other Accruals

The following table presents significant gains or losses reflected in

other (income) expense

–

net

within

segment costs and expenses

:

The reversal of project feasibility costs from expense to capital in 2011 at Williams
Partners is associated with a natural gas pipeline expansion project. This reversal was made upon determining that the related project was probable of development. These costs will be included in the capital costs of the project, which we believe
are probable of recovery through the project rates.

In 2009, we sold our Cameron Meadows plant, which had a
carrying value of $16 million and recognized a $40 million gain at Williams Partners.

Additional Items

In conjunction with the completion of a tender offer for a portion of our debt in the fourth quarter
of 2011 (see Note 11), we incurred $271 million of early debt retirement costs consisting primarily of cash premiums.

We completed a strategic restructuring transaction in the first quarter of 2010 that involved significant debt issuances, retirements and amendments. During 2010, we incurred significant costs related to
these transactions, as follows:

•

$606 million of early debt retirement costs consisting primarily of cash premiums;

•

$45 million of other transaction costs reflected in

general corporate expenses,

of which $7 million is attributable to noncontrolling
interests;

•

$4 million of accelerated amortization of debt costs related to the amendments of credit facilities, reflected in

other income (expense) –
net

below

operating income (loss)

.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

We detected a leak in an underground cavern at our Eminence Storage
Field in Mississippi on December 28, 2010. We recorded $15 million and $5 million of charges to

costs and operating expenses

at Williams Partners during 2011 and 2010, respectively, primarily related to assessment and monitoring
costs incurred to ensure the safety of the surrounding area.

In conjunction with the Gulf Liquids litigation
contingency accrual reduction noted in the table above, Midstream Canada & Olefins also reduced an accrual for the associated interest of $14 million in 2011, which is reflected in

interest accrued

. (See Note 16.)

Note 5. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes

The

provision (benefit) for income taxes

from continuing operations includes:

Reconciliations from the

provision (benefit) for income taxes

from continuing
operations at the federal statutory rate to the recorded

provision (benefit) for income taxes

are as follows:


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

State income taxes (net of federal benefit) were reduced by
$43 million in 2010 due to a reduction in our estimate of the effective deferred state rate, including state income tax carryovers, reflective of a change in the mix of jurisdictional attribution of taxable income.

Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes

includes $173 million and $144 million of
foreign income and $48 million of foreign loss in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

During the course
of audits of our business by domestic and foreign tax authorities, we frequently face challenges regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among
various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the liability associated with our various filing positions, we apply the two step process of recognition and measurement. In association with this liability, we record an estimate of related interest and tax
exposure as a component of our tax provision. The impact of this accrual is included within

other – net

in our reconciliation of the tax provision to the federal statutory rate.

Significant components of

deferred tax liabilities

and

deferred tax assets

are as follows:

*

In conjunction with the spin-off of WPX, alternative minimum tax credits were allocated between us and WPX. A $98 million deferred tax asset for the
estimated alternative minimum tax credit allocable to WPX was contributed to WPX prior to the spin-off. The final allocation of tax attributes cannot be determined until the consolidated tax returns for the tax year 2011 are complete. Any subsequent
adjustments will be recorded in the tax provision for the period in which the change occurs.

The valuation allowance at December 31, 2011 and 2010 serves to reduce the recognized tax assets associated with
state loss and credit carryovers to an amount that will more likely than not, be realized. These amounts are presented in the table above before any federal benefit. The decrease from prior year for both the

state loss and credit carryovers

and the

valuation allowance

is primarily due to state income tax adjustments related to reporting of the federal settlements, as discussed below.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

In the fourth-quarter 2010, we provided $66 million of deferred taxes on
the undistributed earnings of certain foreign operations that we no longer could assert were permanently reinvested due to alternatives being considered related to an existing structure impacted by the potential timing of our plan approved by our
Board of Directors to pursue the separation of our exploration and production business through an IPO and subsequent tax-free spin-off. During the third quarter of 2011, associated with a ruling received from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS)
related to this separation plan, and following a certain internal reorganization, we recognized a deferred tax benefit of $66 million as we now consider the undistributed earnings of these certain foreign operations to be permanently
reinvested. As of December 31, 2011, we consider $388 million of undistributed earnings from foreign subsidiaries to be permanently reinvested and have not provided deferred income taxes on that amount.

Cash payments for income taxes (net of refunds and including discontinued operations) were $296 million,
$40 million, and $14 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

As of December 31, 2011,
we had approximately $38 million of unrecognized tax benefits. If recognized, approximately $41 million, net of federal tax expense, would be recorded as a reduction of income tax expense. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending
amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

We recognize related interest and penalties as a component of income tax expense
(benefit). Total interest and penalties recognized as part of income tax benefit were $56 million for 2011 and as part of income tax expense were $11 million and $17 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively. Approximately $15 million
and $104 million of interest and penalties primarily relating to uncertain tax positions have been accrued as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

During the next 12 months, we do not expect ultimate resolution of any unrecognized tax benefit associated with domestic
or international matters to have a material impact on our unrecognized tax benefit position.

During the first
quarter of 2011, we finalized settlements for 1997 through 2008 on certain contested matters with the IRS that resulted in a 2011 year-to-date tax benefit of approximately $109 million. In July and August 2011, we made cash payments to the IRS of
$82 million and $77 million, respectively, related to these settlements. During the first and fourth quarters of 2011, we received revised assessments on an international matter that resulted in a 2011 tax benefit of approximately $38 million.

As of December 31, 2011, the IRS examination of our consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns for
2009 and 2010 tax years is in process. The statute of limitations for most states expires one year after expiration of the IRS statute. Generally, tax returns for our Venezuelan and Canadian entities are open to audit from 2005 through 2011. Certain
Canadian entities are currently under examination.

With the spin-off of WPX on December 31, 2011, WPX
will be included in our consolidated federal income tax returns and will be included with us and/or certain of our subsidiaries in applicable combined or unitary state, local and foreign income tax returns. In conjunction with the spin-off, WPX
entered into a tax sharing agreement


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

with us under which we generally will be liable for all U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes attributable to WPX with respect to taxable periods ending on or before the
distribution date. We will prepare pro forma tax returns for each tax period in which WPX or any of its subsidiaries are combined or consolidated with us for purposes of any tax return. WPX will reimburse us for any additional taxes shown
on the pro forma tax returns, and we will reimburse WPX for any additional current losses or credits WPX recognizes based on the pro forma tax returns, excluding alternative minimum tax credits. We are also principally responsible for managing
any income tax audits by the various tax jurisdictions for pre-spin-off periods. In the case of any tax audit adjustments, all pro forma returns and associated tax reimbursement obligations will be recomputed to give effect to such adjustments.

Note 6. Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share from Continuing Operations

(1)

2011 includes $.7 million of interest expense, net of tax, associated with our convertible debentures. (See Note 12.) This amount has been added
back to

income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. available to common stockholders

to calculate diluted earnings per common share.

For 2010, 2.2 million weighted-average shares related to the assumed conversion of our convertible debentures, as
well as the related interest, net of tax, have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share. Inclusion of these shares would have an antidilutive effect on the diluted earnings per common share. We estimate that if 2010

income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. available to common stockholders

was $222 million of income, then these shares would become dilutive.

For 2009, 3.4 million weighted-average shares related to the assumed conversion of our convertible debentures, as
well as the related interest, net of tax, have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common share. Inclusion of these shares would have an antidilutive effect on the diluted earnings per common share. We estimate that if 2009

income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. available to common stockholders

was $212 million of income, then these shares would become dilutive.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

The table below includes information related to stock options for each
period that were excluded from the computation of weighted-average stock options due to the option exercise price exceeding the fourth quarter weighted-average market price of our common shares.

*

Information related to the excluded options for 2011 has been adjusted to reflect the impact of the spin-off of WPX on December 31, 2011 (see
Note 13).

Note 7. Employee Benefit Plans

We have noncontributory defined benefit pension plans in which all eligible employees participate. Currently, eligible
employees earn benefits primarily based on a cash balance formula. Various other formulas, as defined in the plan documents, are utilized to calculate the retirement benefits for plan participants not covered by the cash balance formula. At the time
of retirement, participants may elect, to the extent they are eligible for the various options, to receive annuity payments, a lump sum payment, or a combination of a lump sum and annuity payments. In addition to our pension plans, we currently
provide subsidized retiree medical and life insurance benefits (other postretirement benefits) to certain eligible participants. Generally, employees hired after December 31, 1991, are not eligible for the subsidized retiree medical benefits,
except for participants that were employees or retirees of Transco Energy Company on December 31, 1995, and other miscellaneous defined participant groups. Certain of these other postretirement benefit plans, particularly the subsidized retiree
medical benefit plans, provide for retiree contributions and contain other cost-sharing features such as deductibles, co-payments, and co-insurance. The accounting for these plans anticipates future cost-sharing that is consistent with our expressed
intent to increase the retiree contribution level generally in line with health care cost increases.

Benefit
Obligations

The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets for
pension benefits and other postretirement benefits for the years indicated. The spin-off of WPX did not have a significant impact on our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. (See Note 2). Generally, our pension and other postretirement
benefit plans have retained the benefit obligations associated with vested benefits earned by eligible employees that transferred to WPX due to the spin-off. No plan assets transferred to WPX.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

The underfunded status of our pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans
presented in the previous table are recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheet within the following accounts:

The plan assets within our other postretirement benefit plans are intended to be used for
the payment of benefits for certain groups of participants. The

current liabilities

for the other postretirement benefit plans represent the current portion of benefits expected to be payable in the subsequent year for the groups of
participants whose benefits are not expected to be paid from plan assets.

The pension plans’ benefit
obligation

actuarial losses

of $143 million in 2011 and $108 million in 2010 are primarily due to the impact of decreases in the discount rates utilized to calculate the benefit obligation. The 2011 benefit obligation

actuarial loss

of
$48 million for our other postretirement benefit plans is primarily due to the impact of decreases in the discount rate utilized to calculate the benefit obligation. The 2010 benefit


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

obligation

actuarial loss

of $30 million for our other postretirement benefit plans is also primarily due to the impact of decreases in the discount rate utilized to calculate the benefit
obligation as well as changes to medical claims experience. In 2011, the

actuarial loss

includes a curtailment gain of $4 million for our pension plans and $1 million for our other postretirement benefit plans due to the spin-off of WPX.

At December 31, 2011 and 2010, all of our pension plans had a projected benefit obligation and
accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets.

The determination of

net periodic benefit expense

allows for the delayed recognition of gains and losses caused by differences between actual and assumed outcomes for items such as estimated return on plan assets, or caused by changes in assumptions for items such as discount rates or estimated
future compensation levels. The

net actuarial loss

presented in the following table and recorded in

accumulated other comprehensive loss

and

net regulatory assets

represents the cumulative net deferred loss from these types of
differences or changes which have not yet been recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. A portion of the

net actuarial loss

is amortized over the participants’ average remaining future years of service, which is
approximately 13 years for our pension plans and approximately 10 years for our other postretirement benefit plans.

Pre-tax amounts not yet recognized in

net periodic benefit expense

at December 31 are as follows:

In addition to the net regulatory assets included in the previous table, differences in
the amount of actuarially determined

net periodic benefit expense

for our other postretirement benefit plans and the other postretirement benefit costs recovered in rates for our FERC-regulated gas pipelines are deferred as a regulatory asset
or liability. We have

net regulatory liabilities

of $34 million at December 31, 2011 and $23 million at December 31, 2010 related to these deferrals. These amounts will be reflected in future rates based on the gas
pipelines’ rate structures.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Net Periodic Benefit Expense and Items Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income
(Loss)

Net periodic benefit expense

and other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations
recognized in

other comprehensive income (loss)

before taxes for the years ended December 31 consist of the following:

Included in

net periodic benefit expense

in the previous table is expense
associated with active and former employees that supported WPX’s operations. This expense was directly charged to WPX and is included in

income (loss) from discontinued operations

. These amounts totaled $8 million in 2011, and $7 million
in both 2010 and 2009 for our pension plans and totaled less than $1 million for each period for our other postretirement benefit plans. The spin-off of WPX is not expected to have a significant impact on

net periodic benefit expense

in
future periods.

Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations for our other postretirement benefit
plans associated with our FERC-regulated gas pipelines are recognized in

net regulatory assets

at December 31, 2011, and include a

net actuarial loss

of $39 million,

prior service credit

of $1 million,

amortization
of prior service credit

of $7 million, and

amortization of net actuarial loss

of $2 million. At December 31, 2010, amounts recognized in

net regulatory assets

included a

net actuarial loss

of $10 million,

prior
service credit

of $1 million,

amortization of prior service credit

of $9 million, and

amortization of net actuarial loss

of $2 million. At December 31, 2009, amounts recognized in

net regulatory assets

included a

net
actuarial gain

of $14 million,

prior service credit

of $11 million,

amortization of prior service credit

of $7 million, and

amortization of net actuarial loss

of $3 million.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Pre-tax amounts expected to be amortized in

net periodic benefit
expense

in 2012 are as follows:

Key Assumptions

The weighted-average assumptions utilized to determine benefit obligations as of December 31 are as follows:

The weighted-average assumptions utilized to determine

net periodic benefit expense

for the years ended December 31 are as follows:

The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans were determined
separately based on an approach specific to our plans. The year-end discount rates were determined considering a yield curve comprised of high-quality corporate bonds published by a large securities firm and the timing of the expected benefit cash
flows of each plan. The decrease in discount rates from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 is primarily due to the general market decline in yields on long-term, high-quality corporate debt securities.

The expected long-term rates of return on plan assets were determined by combining a review of the historical returns
realized within the portfolio, the investment strategy included in the plans’ Investment Policy Statement, and capital market projections for the asset classes in which the portfolio is invested and the target weightings of each asset class.

The expected return on plan assets component of

net periodic benefit expense

is calculated using the
market-related value of plan assets. For assets held in our pension plans, the market-related value of plan assets is equal to the fair value of plan assets adjusted to reflect amortization of gains or losses associated with the difference between
the expected return on plan assets and the actual return on plan assets over a five-year period. Additionally, the market-related value of plan assets may be no more than 110 percent or less than 90 percent of


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

the fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year. The market-related value of plan assets for our other postretirement benefit plans is equal to the unadjusted fair value of plan assets
at the beginning of the year.

The mortality assumptions used to determine the obligations for our pension and
other postretirement benefit plans are the best estimate of expected mortality rates for the participants in these plans. The selected mortality tables are among the most recent tables available and include projected mortality improvements.

The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2012 is 8.2 percent, increases slightly in 2013, and then
decreases to 5.0 percent by 2021. The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant effect on the amounts reported. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:

Plan Assets

The investment policy for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans provides for an investment strategy in
accordance with ERISA, which governs the investment of the assets in a diversified portfolio. The plans follow a policy of diversifying the investments across various asset classes and investment managers. Additionally, the investment returns on
approximately 40 percent of the other postretirement benefit plan assets are subject to income tax; therefore, certain investments are managed in a tax efficient manner.

The pension plans’ target asset allocation range at December 31, 2011 was 54 percent to 66 percent equity
securities, which includes the commingled investment funds invested in equity securities, and 36 percent to 44 percent fixed income securities, including the fixed income commingled investment fund, and cash management funds. Within equity
securities, the target range for U.S. equity securities is 37 percent to 45 percent and international equity securities is 17 percent to 21 percent. The asset allocation continues to be weighted toward equity securities since the obligations of the
pension and other postretirement benefit plans are long-term in nature and historically equity securities have outperformed other asset classes over long periods of time.

Equity security investments are restricted to high-quality, readily marketable securities that are actively traded on the
major U.S. and foreign national exchanges. Investment in Williams’ securities or an entity in which Williams has a majority ownership is prohibited in the pension plans except where these securities may be owned in a commingled investment fund
in which the plans’ trusts invest. No more than 5 percent of the total stock portfolio valued at market may be invested in the common stock of any one corporation.

The following securities and transactions are not authorized: unregistered securities, commodities or commodity
contracts, short sales or margin transactions, or other leveraging strategies. Investment strategies using the direct holding of options or futures require approval and, historically, have not been used; however, these instruments may be used in
commingled investment funds. Additionally, real estate equity and natural resource property investments are generally restricted.

Fixed income securities are restricted to high-quality, marketable securities that may include, but are not necessarily limited to, U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. government guaranteed and nonguaranteed
mortgage-backed securities, government and municipal bonds, and investment grade corporate securities. The overall rating of the fixed income security assets is generally required to be at least “A,” according to the Moody’s or
Standard & Poor’s rating systems. No more than 5 percent of the total portfolio may be invested in the fixed income securities of any one issuer with the exception of bond index funds and U.S. government guaranteed and agency
securities.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

During 2011, nine active investment managers and one passive investment
manager managed substantially all of the pension plans’ funds and five active investment managers managed the other postretirement benefit plans’ funds. Each of the managers had responsibility for managing a specific portion of these
assets and each investment manager was responsible for 1 percent to 16 percent of the assets.

The pension and
other postretirement benefit plans’ assets are held primarily in equity securities, including commingled investment funds invested in equity securities, and fixed income securities, including a commingled fund invested in fixed income
securities. Within the plans’ investment securities, there are no significant concentrations of risk because of the diversity of the types of investments, diversity of the various industries, and the diversity of the fund managers and
investment strategies. Generally, the investments held in the plans are publicly traded, therefore, minimizing liquidity risk in the portfolio.

The pension and other postretirement benefit plans participated in securities lending programs and during 2011, the plans completed their planned exit from these programs. Under the securities lending
programs, securities were loaned to selected securities brokerage firms. The title of the securities was transferred to the borrower, but the plans were entitled to all distributions made by the issuer of the securities during the term of the loan
and retained the right to redeem the securities on short notice. All loans required collateralization by U.S. government securities, cash, or letters of credit that equaled at least 102 percent of the fair value of the loaned securities plus accrued
interest. There were limitations on the aggregate fair value of securities that could be loaned to any one broker and to all brokers as a group. The collateral was invested in repurchase agreements, asset-backed securities, bank notes, corporate
floating rate notes, and certificates of deposit. At December 31, 2010, the fair values of the loaned securities were $116 million for the pension plans and $17 million for the other postretirement benefit plans and are included in the
following tables. At December 31, 2010, the fair values of securities held as collateral, and the obligation to return the collateral, were $120 million for the pension plans and $17 million for the other postretirement benefit plans and are
not included in the following tables. No significant losses were realized during 2011 as a result of the exit from the securities lending programs.

The fair values of our pension plan assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, by asset class are as follows:


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

The fair values of our other postretirement benefits plan assets at December 31,
2011 and 2010, by asset class are as follows:


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

(1)

These funds invest in high credit-quality, short-term corporate, and government money market debt securities that have remaining maturities of
approximately one year or less, and are deemed to have minimal credit risk.

(2)

This fund invests primarily in equity securities comprising the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The investment objective of the fund is
to approximate the performance of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. The fund manager retains the right to restrict withdrawals from the fund as not to disadvantage other investors in the fund.

(3)

This fund invests in equity securities of international emerging markets for the purpose of capital appreciation. The fund invests primarily in
common stocks in the financial, telecommunications, information technology, consumer goods, energy, industrial, and materials sectors. The plans’ trustee is required to notify the fund manager ten days prior to a withdrawal from the fund. The
fund manager retains the right to restrict withdrawals from the fund as not to disadvantage other investors in the fund.

(4)

This fund invests in a diversified portfolio of international equity securities for the purpose of capital appreciation. The fund invests primarily
in common stocks in the consumer goods, materials, financial, energy, information technology, industrial, and health care sectors, as well as forward foreign currency exchange contracts. The plans’ trustee is required to notify the fund manager
ten days prior to a withdrawal from the fund. The fund manager retains the right to restrict withdrawals from the fund as not to disadvantage other investors in the fund.

(5)

This fund invests in U.S. Corporate bonds and U.S. Treasury securities. The fund is managed to closely match the characteristics of a long-term
corporate bond index fund and seeks to maintain an average credit quality target of A- or above and a maximum 10 percent allocation to BBB rated securities. The fund’s target duration is approximately 20 years. The trustee of the fund reserves
the right to delay the processing of deposits or withdrawals in order to ensure that securities transactions will be carried out in an orderly manner.

(6)

The weighted-average credit quality rating of the pension assets’ fixed income security portfolio is investment grade with a weighted-average
duration of 5.6 years for 2011 and 2010.

(7)

The weighted-average credit quality rating of the other postretirement benefit assets’ fixed income security portfolio is investment grade with
a weighted-average duration of 4.8 years for 2011 and 2010.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

The asset’s fair value measurement level within the fair value
hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement.

Shares
of the cash management funds are valued at fair value based on published market prices as of the close of business on the last business day of the year, which represents the net asset values of the shares held.

The fair values of equity securities traded on U.S. exchanges are derived from quoted market prices as of the close of
business on the last business day of the year. The fair values of equity securities traded on foreign exchanges are also derived from quoted market prices as of the close of business on an active foreign exchange on the last business day of the
year. However, the valuation requires translation of the foreign currency to U.S. dollars and this translation is considered an observable input to the valuation.

The fair value of all commingled investment funds are estimated based on the net asset values per unit of each of the
funds. The net asset values per unit represent the aggregate value of the fund’s assets at fair value less liabilities, divided by the number of units outstanding.

The fair value of fixed income securities, except U.S. Treasury notes and bonds, are determined using pricing models.
These pricing models incorporate observable inputs such as benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, and issuer spreads for similar securities to determine fair value. The U.S. Treasury notes and bonds are valued at fair value based
on closing prices on the last business day of the year reported in the active market in which the security is traded.

The investment contracts with insurance companies are valued at fair value by discounting the cash flow of a bond using a yield to maturity based on an investment grade index or comparable index with a
similar maturity value, maturity period, and nominal coupon rate.

There have been no significant changes in
the preceding valuation methodologies used at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Additionally, there were no transfers or reclassifications of investments between Level 1, Level 2, or Level 3 from December 2010 to December 2011. If transfers between
levels occur, the transfers will be recognized as of the end of the period.

Plan Benefit Payments and Employer
Contributions

Following are the expected benefits to be paid by the plans and the expected federal
prescription drug subsidy to be received in the next ten years. These estimates are based on the same assumptions previously discussed and reflect future service as appropriate. The actuarial assumptions are based on long-term expectations and
include, but are not limited to, assumptions as to average expected retirement age and form of benefit payment. Actual benefit payments could differ significantly from expected benefit payments if near-term participant behaviors differ significantly
from the actuarial assumptions.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

In 2012, we expect to contribute approximately $70 million to our
tax-qualified pension plans and approximately $9 million to our nonqualified pension plans, for a total of approximately $79 million, and approximately $15 million to our other postretirement benefit plans.

Defined Contribution Plans

We also maintain defined contribution plans for the benefit of substantially all of our employees. Generally, plan participants may contribute a portion of their compensation on a pre-tax and after-tax
basis in accordance with the plans’ guidelines. We match employees’ contributions up to certain limits. Our matching contributions charged to expense were $28 million in 2011, $26 million in 2010, and $25 million in 2009.
Included in these amounts are matching contributions for employees that support WPX’s operations that were directly charged to WPX and included in

income (loss) from discontinued operations

that totaled $5 million for each of the 2011,
2010, and 2009 years.

Note 8. Inventories

Note 9. Property, Plant, and Equipment

(a)

Estimated useful life and depreciation rates are presented as of December 31, 2011. Depreciation rates for regulated assets are prescribed by
the FERC.

(b)

Construction in progress balances not yet subject to depreciation.

Depreciation and amortization expense for

property, plant, and equipment – net

was $658 million in
2011, $611 million in 2010, and $576 million in 2009.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Regulated

property, plant, and equipment – net

includes $865 million and $906 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to amounts in excess of the original cost of the regulated facilities within our gas pipeline businesses as a result of our prior
acquisitions. This amount is being amortized over 40 years using the straight-line amortization method. Current FERC policy does not permit recovery through rates for amounts in excess of original cost of construction.

Asset Retirement Obligations

Our accrued obligations relate to underground storage caverns, offshore platforms, fractionation and compression facilities, gas gathering well connections and pipelines, and gas transmission facilities.
At the end of the useful life of each respective asset, we are legally obligated to plug storage caverns and remove any related surface equipment, to restore land and remove surface equipment at gas processing, fractionation and compression
facilities, to dismantle offshore platforms, to cap certain gathering pipelines at the wellhead connection and remove any related surface equipment, and to remove certain components of gas transmission facilities from the ground.

The following table presents the significant changes to our asset retirement obligations, of which $507 million and
$464 million are included in

regulatory liabilities, deferred income, and other

, with the remaining current portion in

accrued liabilities

at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.

(1)

The revision in 2011 is primarily due to increases in the inflation rate and estimated removal costs, which are among several factors considered for
revision in the annual review process. The revision in 2010 is primarily due to a decrease in the inflation rate. The 2011 and 2010 revisions also include increases of $39 million and $31 million, respectively, related to changes in the timing and
method of abandonment on certain of Transco’s natural gas storage caverns that were associated with a leak in 2010.

Pursuant to its 2008 rate case settlement, Transco deposits a portion of its collected rates into an external trust (ARO Trust) that is specifically designated to fund future AROs. Transco is also
required to make annual deposits into the trust through 2012. (See Note 15.).

Note 10. Accrued Liabilities


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Note 11. Debt, Banking Arrangements, and Leases

Long-Term Debt

Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict or limit, among other
things, our ability to create liens supporting indebtedness, sell assets, and incur additional debt. Default of these agreements could also restrict our ability to make certain distributions or repurchase equity.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Credit Facilities

In June 2011, we entered into two new separate five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreements. The
replacements of our previous $900 million credit facility and WPZ’s $1.75 billion credit facility, as discussed further below, are considered modifications for accounting purposes.

We established a new $900 million unsecured revolving credit facility agreement which replaced our existing unsecured
$900 million credit facility agreement that was scheduled to expire May 1, 2012. There were no outstanding borrowings under the existing agreement at the time it was terminated. The new credit facility may, under certain conditions, be
increased up to an additional $250 million. Significant financial covenants require our ratio of debt to EBITDA (each as defined in the credit facility) to be no greater than 4.5 to 1. For the fiscal quarter and the two following fiscal quarters in
which one or more acquisitions for a total aggregate purchase price equal to or greater than $50 million has been executed, we are required to maintain a ratio of debt to EBITDA of no greater than 5 to 1. At December 31, 2011, we are in
compliance with these financial covenants. On November 1, 2011, the new credit facility was amended primarily to revise certain defined terms for further clarity and to accommodate our revised reorganization plan related to the spin-off of WPX.

WPZ also established a new $2 billion unsecured revolving credit facility agreement that includes Transco and
Northwest Pipeline as co-borrowers that replaced an existing unsecured $1.75 billion credit facility agreement that was scheduled to expire on February 17, 2013. This credit facility is only available to named borrowers. At the closing, WPZ
refinanced $300 million outstanding under the existing facility via a noncash transfer of the obligation to the new credit facility. The new credit facility may, under certain conditions, be increased up to an additional $400 million. The full
amount of the credit facility is available to WPZ to the extent not otherwise utilized by Transco and Northwest Pipeline. Transco and Northwest Pipeline each have access to borrow up to $400 million under the credit facility to the extent not
otherwise utilized by the other co-borrowers. Significant financial covenants include:

•

WPZ’s ratio of debt to EBITDA (each as defined in the credit facility) must be no greater than 5 to 1. For the fiscal quarter and the two
following fiscal quarters in which one or more acquisitions for a total aggregate purchase price equal to or greater than $50 million has been executed, WPZ is required to maintain a ratio of debt to EBITDA of no greater than 5.5 to 1;

•

The ratio of debt to capitalization (defined as net worth plus debt) must be no greater than 65 percent for each of Transco and Northwest Pipeline.

At December 31, 2011, WPZ is in compliance with these financial covenants.

The two new credit agreements contain the following terms and conditions:

•

Each time funds are borrowed, the applicable borrower may choose from two methods of calculating interest: a fluctuating base rate equal to Citibank
N.A.’s alternate base rate plus an applicable margin or a periodic fixed rate equal to LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The applicable borrower is required to pay a commitment fee (currently 0.25 percent) based on the unused portion of their
respective credit facility. The applicable margin and the commitment fee are determined for each borrower by reference to a pricing schedule based on such borrower’s senior unsecured long-term debt ratings.

•

Various covenants may limit, among other things, a borrower’s and its material subsidiaries’ ability to grant certain liens supporting
indebtedness, a borrower’s ability to merge or consolidate, sell all or substantially all of its assets, enter into certain affiliate transactions, make certain distributions during an event of default, make investments, and allow any material
change in the nature of its business.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

•

If an event of default with respect to a borrower occurs under their respective credit facility agreement, the lenders will be able to terminate the
commitments for the respective borrowers and accelerate the maturity of any loans of the defaulting borrower under the respective credit facility agreement and exercise other rights and remedies.

Letter of credit capacity under our $900 million and WPZ’s $2 billion credit facilities is $700 million and $1.3
billion, respectively. At December 31, 2011, no letters of credit have been issued and no loans are outstanding on either facility. We have issued letters of credit totaling $21 million as of December 31, 2011, under certain bilateral bank
agreements.

Issuances and Retirements

Utilizing cash on hand, WPZ retired $150 million of 7.5 percent senior unsecured notes that matured on June 15, 2011.

In August 2011, Transco issued $375 million of 5.4 percent senior unsecured notes due 2041 to investors in a
private debt placement. A portion of these proceeds was used to repay Transco’s $300 million 7 percent senior unsecured notes that matured on August 15, 2011. As part of the new issuance, Transco entered into a registration
rights agreement with the initial purchasers of the unsecured notes. An offer to exchange these unregistered notes for substantially identical new notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, was commenced in February
2012 and is expected to be completed in March 2012. If Transco fails to complete the exchange within certain time periods required by the registration rights agreement, additional interest will accrue on the affected securities. The rate of
additional interest will be 0.25 percent per annum on the principal amount of the affected securities for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of default, increasing by an additional 0.25 percent per annum with respect to
each subsequent 90-day period thereafter. Following the cure of any registration defaults, the accrual of additional interest will cease.

In November 2011, WPZ completed a public offering of $500 million of its 4 percent senior unsecured notes due 2021. WPZ used the net proceeds primarily to repay outstanding borrowings on its senior
unsecured revolving credit facility.

In November 2011, WPX completed the issuance of $1.5 billion of senior
unsecured notes and subsequently distributed $981 million of the proceeds to us. As a result of the spin-off, these WPX notes are not included in our consolidated debt balance at December 31, 2011. Primarily utilizing the distribution we
received related to the WPX debt issuance, we retired $746 million of debt in December 2011. In conjunction with the retirement, we paid $254 million in related premiums.

Other Debt Disclosures

As of December 31,
2011, aggregate minimum maturities of long-term debt (excluding capital leases and unamortized discount and premium) for each of the next five years are as follows:

Cash payments for interest (net of amounts capitalized) were $599 million in 2011, $614
million in 2010 and $592 million in 2009.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

We have considered the guidance in the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Regulation S-X related to restricted net assets of subsidiaries. In accordance with Rule 4-08(e) of Regulation S-X, we have determined that certain net assets of our subsidiaries are considered restricted under this guidance and
exceed 25 percent of our consolidated net assets. Substantially all of these restricted net assets relate to the net assets of WPZ, which are technically considered restricted under this accounting rule due to terms within WPZ’s partnership
agreement that govern the partnership’s assets. Our interest in WPZ’s net assets at December 31, 2011 was $3.9 billion.

Leases-Lessee

Future minimum annual rentals under
noncancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2011 are payable as follows:

Under our right-of-way agreement with the Jicarilla Apache Nation (JAN), we make annual
payments of approximately $8 million and an additional annual payment which varies depending on the prior year’s per-unit NGL margins and the volume of gas gathered by our Williams Partners gathering facilities subject to the agreement.
Depending primarily on the per-unit NGL margins for any given year, the additional annual payments could exceed the fixed amount. This agreement expires March 31, 2029.

Total rent expense was $49 million in 2011, $45 million in 2010, and $45 million in 2009.

Note 12

.

Stockholders’ Equity

Cash dividends declared per common share were $.775, $.485 and $.44 for 2011, 2010, and 2009,
respectively.

At December 31, 2011, approximately $8 million of our original $300 million, 5.5
percent junior subordinated convertible debentures, convertible into approximately one million shares of common stock, remain outstanding. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, we converted $14 million, $2 million and $28 million, respectively, of
the debentures in exchange for approximately one million, less than one million and three million shares, respectively, of common stock. In conjunction with the spin-off of WPX, the conversion rate for the remaining debentures outstanding
has been modified.

We maintain a Stockholder Rights Plan, as amended and restated on September 21, 2004,
and further amended May 18, 2007, and October 12, 2007, under which each outstanding share of our common stock has a right (as defined in the plan) attached. Under certain conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase, at an


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

exercise price of $50 (subject to adjustment), one two-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. The rights may be exercised only if an Acquiring Person acquires (or
obtains the right to acquire) 15 percent or more of our common stock or commences an offer for 15 percent or more of our common stock. The plan contains a mechanism to divest of shares of common stock if such stock in excess of 14.9 percent was
acquired inadvertently or without knowledge of the terms of the rights. The rights, which until exercised do not have voting rights, expire in 2014 and may be redeemed at a price of $.01 per right prior to their expiration, or within a specified
period of time after the occurrence of certain events. In the event a person becomes the owner of more than 15 percent of our common stock, each holder of a right (except an Acquiring Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, our
common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. In the event we are engaged in a merger, business combination, or 50 percent or more of our assets, cash flow or earnings power is sold or transferred, each holder of a
right (except an Acquiring Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right.

On December 31, 2011, we completed the tax-free spin-off of our interest in WPX to our shareholders. (See Note 2.)

Note 13. Stock-Based Compensation

Plan Information

On May 17, 2007, our stockholders approved a plan that provides common-stock-based awards to both employees and nonmanagement directors and reserved 19 million new shares for issuance. On
May 20, 2010, our stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of the 2007 plan to increase by 11 million the number of new shares authorized for making awards under the plan, among other changes. The plan permits the granting of
various types of awards including, but not limited to, restricted stock units and stock options. At December 31, 2011, 35 million shares of our common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to existing and future stock awards, of which
20 million shares were available for future grants.

Additionally, on May 17, 2007, our stockholders
approved an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) which authorizes up to 2 million new shares of our common stock to be available for sale under the plan. The ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase our common stock through payroll
deductions not exceeding an annual amount of $15,000 per participant. The ESPP provides for offering periods during which shares may be purchased and continues until the earliest of: (1) the Board of Directors terminates the ESPP, (2) the
sale of all shares available under the ESPP, or (3) the tenth anniversary of the date the Plan was approved by the stockholders. The first offering under the ESPP commenced on October 1, 2007 and ended on December 31, 2007. Subsequent
offering periods are from January through June and from July through December. Generally, all employees are eligible to participate in the ESPP, with the exception of executives and international employees. The number of shares eligible for an
employee to purchase during each offering period is limited to 750 shares. The purchase price of the stock is 85 percent of the lower closing price of either the first or the last day of the offering period. The ESPP requires a one-year holding
period before the stock can be sold. Employees purchased 239 thousand shares at an average price of $21.19 per share during 2011. Approximately 809 thousand shares were available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2011.

Total stock-based compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $52
million, $48 million, and $43 million, respectively, of which $18 million, $14 million, and $13 million is included in income (loss) from discontinued operations for each respective year. Measured but unrecognized stock-based compensation expense at
December 31, 2011, was $35 million, which does not include the effect of estimated forfeitures of $2 million. This amount is comprised of $3 million related to stock options and $32 million related to restricted stock units. These amounts are
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

WPX Spin Off

As provided in the Employee Matters Agreement related to the spin-off of WPX (see Note 1), except for options awards
granted prior to 2006, stock-based awards previously held by WPX employees were forfeited and replaced with WPX stock-based awards while awards held by our ongoing employees were adjusted upon the spin-off. All stock options granted previous to 2006
were converted into options to acquire both WPX common stock and our common stock. The adjusted awards maintain their original terms and conditions with regard to vesting schedules and expiration dates. These modifications to our stock-based
compensation awards resulted in an insignificant amount of incremental expense. Both the shares and weighted-average prices presented below are on a post-spin basis.

Stock Options

The following summary reflects stock
option activity and related information for the year ended December 31, 2011.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010, and 2009 was $55 million, $20 million, and $2 million, respectively; and the tax benefit realized was $21 million, $7 million, and $1 million, respectively. Cash received from stock option exercises was
$45 million, $7 million, and $2 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.

The following summary
provides additional information about stock options that are outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2011.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

The estimated fair value at date of grant of options for our common
stock granted in each respective year, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, is as follows:

The expected dividend yield is based on the average annual dividend yield as of the grant
date. Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our stock and the implied volatility of our stock based on traded options. In calculating historical volatility, returns during calendar year 2002 were excluded as the extreme
volatility during that time is not reasonably expected to be repeated in the future. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity rates as of the grant date. The expected life of the option is based on historical
exercise behavior and expected future experience.

Nonvested Restricted Stock Units

The following summary reflects nonvested restricted stock unit activity and related information for the year ended
December 31, 2011.

*

Performance-based shares are primarily valued using a valuation pricing model. However, certain of these shares were valued using the end-of-period
market price until certification that the performance objectives were completed or a value of zero once it was determined that it was unlikely that performance objectives would be met. All other shares are valued at the grant-date market price, less
dividends projected to be paid over the vesting period.

Other restricted stock unit
information




Weighted-average grant date fair value of restricted stock units granted during the year, per
share

$

23.31

$

16.37

$

7.70

Total fair value of restricted stock units vested during the year ($’s in millions)

$


$


$



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Performance-based shares granted under the Plan represent 30 percent of
nonvested restricted stock units outstanding at December 31, 2011. These grants may be earned at the end of a three-year period based on actual performance against a performance target. Based on the extent to which certain financial targets are
achieved, vested shares may range from zero percent to 200 percent of the original grant amount.

Note 14. Fair Value Measurements

The following table presents, by level within the fair value hierarchy, our assets that are measured at
fair value on a recurring basis.

ARO Trust investments

: Transco deposits a portion of its collected rates
into an external trust (ARO Trust) that is specifically designated to fund future asset retirement obligations pursuant to its 2008 rate case settlement. The ARO Trust invests in a portfolio of actively traded mutual funds.

Available-for-sale marketable equity securities

: At December 31, 2011 we held certain equity
securities that were subsequently sold in January 2012. These securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.

Energy derivatives:

Energy derivatives include commodity based exchange-traded contracts, which consist of swaps that are valued based on quoted prices in active markets. The tenure of our
energy derivatives portfolio is relatively short with all of our derivatives expiring by March 31, 2013.

The following table presents assets measured on a nonrecurring basis within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as of
December 31, 2010.

Note 15. Financial Instruments, Derivatives, Guarantees, and Concentration of Credit Risk

Financial Instruments

Fair-value methods

We use the following methods and assumptions in estimating our fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:

Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash

: The carrying amounts reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of these
instruments. Restricted cash is included in

other current assets and deferred charges

in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

ARO Trust investments

:

Transco deposits a portion of its collected rates, pursuant to its 2008 rate case settlement, into the ARO Trust. The ARO Trust invests in a portfolio of mutual
funds that are reported at fair value, based on quoted net asset values, in

r

egulatory assets, deferred charges, and other

in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are classified as available-for-sale. However, both realized and
unrealized gains and losses are ultimately recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Long-term debt

:

The fair value of our publicly traded
long-term debt is determined using indicative period-end traded bond market prices. The fair value of our private debt is based on market rates and the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings. At December 31, 2011 and
December 31, 2010, approximately 96 percent and 100 percent, respectively, of our long-term debt was publicly traded.

Guarantee

:

The

guarantee

represented in the following table consists of a guarantee we have provided in the event of nonpayment by our previously owned communications subsidiary,
Williams Communications Group (WilTel), on a lease performance obligation. To estimate the fair value of the guarantee, the estimated default rate is determined by obtaining the average cumulative issuer-weighted corporate default rate based on the
credit rating of WilTel’s current owner and the term of the underlying obligation. The default rate is published by Moody’s Investors Service. This guarantee is included in

accrued liabilities

in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Other

:

Includes current and noncurrent notes receivable, margin deposits, customer margin
deposits payable, and cost-based investments. Other also includes available-for-sale equity securities. These securities are reported within

other current assets and deferred charges

in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and are carried at fair
value based upon the publicly traded equity prices.

Energy derivatives

:

Energy derivatives
include forwards and swaps. These are carried at fair value

in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. See Note 14 for a discussion of the valuation of our energy derivatives.

Carrying amounts and fair values of our financial instruments

(a)

Excludes capital leases.

(b)

Excludes certain cost-based investments in companies that are not publicly traded and therefore it is not practicable to estimate fair value. The
carrying value of these investments was $1 million and $2 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.

Energy Commodity Derivatives

Risk management
activities

We are exposed to market risk from changes in energy commodity prices within our operations. We
may utilize derivatives to manage our exposure to the variability in expected future cash flows from forecasted purchases and sales of natural gas and NGLs attributable to commodity price risk. Certain of these derivatives utilized for risk
management purposes have been designated as cash flow hedges, while other derivatives have not been designated as cash flow hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting despite hedging our future cash flows on an economic basis.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

We produce and sell NGLs and olefins at different locations throughout
North America. We also buy natural gas to satisfy the required fuel and shrink needed to generate NGLs and olefins. In addition, we buy NGLs as feedstock to generate olefins. To reduce exposure to a decrease in revenues from fluctuations in NGL
market prices or increases in costs and operating expenses from fluctuations in natural gas and NGL market prices, we may enter into NGL or natural gas swap agreements, financial forward contracts, and financial option contracts to mitigate the
price risk on forecasted sales of NGLs and purchases of natural gas and NGLs. Those designated as cash flow hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting cash flows attributable to the hedged risk during the term of the hedge. However,
ineffectiveness may be recognized primarily as a result of locational differences between the hedging derivative and the hedged item.

Volumes

Our energy commodity derivatives are comprised of
both contracts to purchase the commodity (long positions) and contracts to sell the commodity (short positions). Derivative transactions are categorized into two types:

•

Central hub risk: Includes physical and financial derivative exposures to Henry Hub for natural gas and Mont Belvieu for NGLs;

•

Basis risk: Includes physical and financial derivative exposures to the difference in value between the central hub and another specific delivery
point.

The following table depicts the notional quantities of the net long (short)
positions in our commodity derivatives portfolio as of December 31, 2011. NGLs are presented in barrels.

Derivative Notional Volumes

Unit of

Measure

Central Hub

Risk

Basis

Risk

Not Designated as Hedging Instruments

Williams Partners

Barrels

45,000

240,000

Midstream Canada & Olefins

Barrels

(25,000

)

Fair values and gains (losses)

At December 31, 2011, the fair value of our energy commodity derivatives was an asset of $1 million. These derivative
contracts were not designated as hedging instruments. Our derivatives are included in

other current assets and deferred charges

in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Derivatives are classified as current or noncurrent based on the contractual
timing of expected future net cash flows of individual contracts. The expected future net cash flows for derivatives classified as current are expected to occur within the next 12 months. The fair value amount is on a gross basis and does not
reflect the netting of asset and liability positions permitted under the terms of our master netting arrangements. Further, the amount does not include cash held on deposit in margin accounts that we have received or remitted to collateralize
certain derivative positions.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

The following table presents pre-tax gains and losses for our energy
commodity derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, as recognized in AOCI,

revenues,

or

costs and operating expenses

.

There were no gains or losses recognized in income as a result of excluding amounts from
the assessment of hedge effectiveness or as a result of reclassifications to earnings following the discontinuance of any cash flow hedges.

We recognized losses of $2 million and $1 million in

revenues

for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, on our energy commodity derivatives not designated as hedging
instruments.

The cash flow impact of our derivative activities is presented in the Consolidated Statement of
Cash Flows as

changes in current and noncurrent derivative assets and liabilities

.

Credit-risk-related features

Certain of our derivative contracts contain credit-risk-related provisions that would require us, in certain
circumstances, to post additional collateral in support of our net derivative liability positions. These credit-risk-related provisions require us to post collateral in the form of cash or letters of credit when our net liability positions exceed an
established credit threshold. The credit thresholds are typically based on our senior unsecured debt ratings from Standard and Poor’s and/or Moody’s Investors Service. Under these contracts, a credit ratings decline would lower our credit
thresholds, thus requiring us to post additional collateral. We also have contracts that contain adequate assurance provisions giving the counterparty the right to request collateral in an amount that corresponds to the outstanding net liability.

As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we did not have any collateral posted, either in the
form of cash or letters of credit, to derivative counterparties since we had respective net derivative asset positions with all of our counterparties.

Cash flow hedges

Changes in the fair value of our cash
flow hedges, to the extent effective, are deferred in AOCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods in which the hedged forecasted purchases or sales affect earnings, or when it is probable that the hedged forecasted transaction
will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period. As of December 31, 2011, we have realized all of our hedged portions of future cash flows associated with anticipated energy commodity purchases. Based on recorded values at
December 31, 2011, no net gains or losses will be reclassified into earnings within the next year.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Guarantees

In addition to the guarantees and payment obligations discussed in Note 2 and Note 16, we have issued guarantees and other
similar arrangements as discussed below.

We are required by our revolving credit agreements to indemnify
lenders for any taxes required to be withheld from payments due to the lenders and for any tax payments made by the lenders. The maximum potential amount of future payments under these indemnifications is based on the related borrowings and such
future payments cannot currently be determined. These indemnifications generally continue indefinitely unless limited by the underlying tax regulations and have no carrying value. We have never been called upon to perform under these
indemnifications and have no current expectation of a future claim.

We have provided a guarantee in the event
of nonpayment by our previously owned communications subsidiary, WilTel, on a certain lease performance obligation that extends through 2042. The maximum potential exposure is approximately $38 million at December 31, 2011 and $39 million at
December 31, 2010. Our exposure declines systematically throughout the remaining term of WilTel’s obligation. The carrying value of the guarantee included in

accrued liabilities

on the Consolidated Balance Sheet is $34 million
at December 31, 2011 and $35 million at December 31, 2010.

At December 31, 2011, we do not
expect these guarantees to have a material impact on our future liquidity or financial position. However, if we are required to perform on these guarantees in the future, it may have an adverse effect on our results of operations.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Cash equivalents

Our cash equivalents are primarily
invested in funds with high-quality, short-term securities and instruments that are issued or guaranteed by the U.S. government.

Accounts and notes receivable

The following table
summarizes concentration of receivables, net of allowances, by product or service at December 31, 2011 and 2010:

Natural gas and NGL customers include pipelines, distribution companies, producers, gas
marketers and industrial users primarily located in the central, eastern and northwestern United States, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, and Canada. As a general policy, collateral is not required for receivables, but customers’ financial
condition and credit worthiness are evaluated regularly.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Revenues

In 2011 and 2010, we had one customer that accounted for 17 percent and 15 percent of our consolidated revenues,
respectively. There were no customers for which our sales exceeded 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009.

Note 16. Contingent Liabilities and Commitments

Indemnification of WPX Matters

We have agreed to indemnify our former affiliate, WPX and its subsidiaries, related to the following matters. In
connection with this indemnification, we have retained applicable accrued asset and liability balances associated with these matters, and as a result, have an indirect exposure to future developments in these matters.

Issues Resulting from California Energy Crisis

WPX’s former power business was engaged in power marketing in various geographic areas, including California. Prices
charged for power by WPX and other traders and generators in California and other western states in 2000 and 2001 were challenged in various proceedings, including those before the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). WPX has entered into
settlements with the State of California (State Settlement), major California utilities (Utilities Settlement), and others that substantially resolved each of these issues with these parties.

Although the State Settlement and Utilities Settlement resolved a significant portion of the refund issues among the
settling parties, WPX continues to have potential refund exposure to nonsettling parties, including various California end users that did not participate in the Utilities Settlement. WPX is currently in settlement negotiations with certain
California utilities aimed at eliminating or substantially reducing this exposure. If successful, and subject to a final “true-up” mechanism, the settlement agreement would also resolve WPX’s collection of accrued interest from
counterparties as well as their payment of accrued interest on refund amounts. Thus, as currently contemplated by the parties, the settlement agreement would resolve most, if not all, of WPX’s legal issues arising from the 2000-2001 California
Energy Crisis. We currently have a net receivable from WPX related to these matters.

Certain other issues
also remain open at the FERC and for other nonsettling parties.

Reporting of Natural Gas-Related Information to Trade
Publications

Civil suits based on allegations of manipulating published gas price indices have been
brought against WPX and others, in each case seeking an unspecified amount of damages. WPX is currently a defendant in class action litigation and other litigation originally filed in state court in Colorado, Kansas, Missouri and Wisconsin brought
on behalf of direct and indirect purchasers of natural gas in those states. These cases were transferred to the federal court in Nevada. In 2008, the court granted summary judgment in the Colorado case in favor of WPX and most of the other
defendants based on plaintiffs’ lack of standing. In 2009, the court denied the plaintiffs’ request for reconsideration of the Colorado dismissal and entered judgment in WPX’s favor. The court’s order became final on
July 18, 2011, and the Colorado plaintiffs might appeal the order.

In the other cases, on July 18,
2011, the Nevada district court granted WPX’s joint motions for summary judgment to preclude the plaintiffs’ state law claims because the federal Natural Gas Act gives the FERC exclusive jurisdiction to resolve those issues. The court also
denied the plaintiffs’ class certification motion as


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

moot. On July 22, 2011, the plaintiffs’ appealed the court’s ruling to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, and the parties are briefing the issues. Because of the uncertainty
around these current pending unresolved issues, including an insufficient description of the purported classes and other related matters, we cannot reasonably estimate a range of potential exposures at this time. However, it is reasonably possible
that the ultimate resolution of these items and our related indemnification obligation could result in future charges that may be material to our results of operations.

Environmental Matters

We are a participant in
certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own. We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other
potentially responsible parties, the EPA, and other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Certain of our subsidiaries have been
identified as potentially responsible parties at various Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred, various other hazardous materials removal or remediation obligations
under environmental laws. As of December 31, 2011, we have accrued liabilities totaling $47 million for these matters, as discussed below. Our accrual reflects the most likely costs of cleanup, which are generally based on completed assessment
studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. Certain assessment studies are still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Any
incremental amount in excess of amounts currently accrued cannot be reasonably estimated at this time due to uncertainty about the actual number of contaminated sites ultimately identified, the actual amount and extent of contamination discovered
and the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities.

The EPA and various
state regulatory agencies routinely promulgate and propose new rules, and issue updated guidance to existing rules. These new rules and rulemakings include, but are not limited to, rules for reciprocating internal combustion engine maximum
achievable control technology, new air quality standards for ground level ozone, and one hour nitrogen dioxide emission limits. We are unable to estimate the costs of asset additions or modifications necessary to comply with these new
regulations due to uncertainty created by the various legal challenges to these regulations and the need for further specific regulatory guidance.

Continuing operations

Our interstate gas pipelines are
involved in remediation activities related to certain facilities and locations for polychlorinated biphenyl, mercury contamination, and other hazardous substances. These activities have involved the EPA, various state environmental authorities
and identification as a potentially responsible party at various Superfund waste disposal sites. At December 31, 2011, we have accrued liabilities of $10 million for these costs. We expect that these costs will be recoverable through
rates.

We also accrue environmental remediation costs for natural gas underground storage facilities,
primarily related to soil and groundwater contamination. At December 31, 2011, we have accrued liabilities totaling $8 million for these costs.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Former operations, including operations classified as discontinued

We have potential obligations in connection with assets and businesses we no longer operate. These
potential obligations include the indemnification of the purchasers of certain of these assets and businesses for environmental and other liabilities existing at the time the sale was consummated. Our responsibilities relate to the operations of the
assets and businesses described below.

•

Former agricultural fertilizer and chemical operations and former retail petroleum and refining operations;

•

Former petroleum products and natural gas pipelines;

•

Former petroleum refining facilities;

•

Former exploration and production and mining operations;

•

Former electricity and natural gas marketing and trading operations.

At December 31, 2011, we have accrued environmental liabilities of $29 million related to these matters.

Other Legal Matters

Gulf Liquids litigation

Gulf Liquids contracted with
Gulsby Engineering Inc. (Gulsby) and Gulsby-Bay (a joint venture between Gulsby and Bay Ltd.) for the construction of certain gas processing plants in Louisiana. National American Insurance Company (NAICO) and American Home Assurance Company
provided payment and performance bonds for the projects. In 2001, the contractors and sureties filed multiple cases in Louisiana and Texas against Gulf Liquids and us.

In 2006, at the conclusion of the consolidated trial of the asserted contract and tort claims, the jury returned its
actual and punitive damages verdict against us and Gulf Liquids. Based on our interpretation of the jury verdicts, we recorded a charge based on our estimated exposure for actual damages of approximately $68 million plus potential interest of
approximately $20 million. In addition, we concluded that it was reasonably possible that any ultimate judgment might have included additional amounts of approximately $199 million in excess of our accrual, which primarily represented our
estimate of potential punitive damage exposure under Texas law.

From May through October 2007, the court
entered seven post-trial orders in the case (interlocutory orders) which, among other things, overruled the verdict award of tort and punitive damages as well as any damages against us. The court also denied the plaintiffs’ claims for
attorneys’ fees. On January 28, 2008, the court issued its judgment awarding damages against Gulf Liquids of approximately $11 million in favor of Gulsby and approximately $4 million in favor of Gulsby-Bay. Gulf Liquids, Gulsby,
Gulsby-Bay, Bay Ltd., and NAICO appealed the judgment. In February 2009, we settled with certain of these parties and reduced our accrued liability as of December 31, 2008, by $43 million, including $11 million of interest. On
February 17, 2011, the Texas Court of Appeals upheld the dismissals of the tort and punitive damages claims and reversed and remanded the contract claim and attorney fee claims for further proceedings. None of the parties filed a petition for
review in the Texas Supreme Court. As a result, we reduced our accrued liability as of December 31, 2011 by $33 million, including $14 million of interest. We are awaiting the Texas Court of Appeals to issue a mandate remanding the case to the trial
court.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

James West v. Williams Alaska Petroleum, Inc., et al

In January 2010, the plaintiff originally filed a class action lawsuit in state court in Fairbanks, Alaska on behalf of
individual property owners whose water contained sulfolane contamination allegedly emanating from the Flint Hills Oil Refinery in North Pole, Alaska. The suit named our subsidiary Williams Alaska Petroleum Inc. (WAPI) and Flint Hills Resources
Alaska, LLC (FHRA) as defendants. We owned and operated the refinery until 2004 when we sold it to FHRA. We and FHRA have made claims under the pollution liability insurance policy issued in connection with the sale of the North Pole refinery to
FHRA. We and FHRA also filed claims against each other seeking, among other things, contractual indemnification alleging that the other party caused the sulfolane contamination.

In August 2010, the court denied the plaintiff’s request for class certification. On May 5, 2011, we and FHRA
settled the James West claim, leaving FHRA and WAPI claims. On November 17, 2011, we filed motions for summary judgment on FHRA’s claims against us, but the motions are unlikely to resolve all the outstanding claims. Similarly, FHRA has
filed motions for summary judgment that would resolve some, but not all, of our claims against it. We await the court’s ruling on those motions and the new scheduling order.

While significant uncertainty still exists due to, among other things, ongoing proceedings and expert evaluations, we
currently estimate that our reasonably possible loss exposure in this matter could range from an insignificant amount up to $32 million. We might have the ability to recover any such losses under the pollution liability policy if FHRA has not
exhausted the policy limits.

Other

In 2003, we entered into an agreement to sublease certain underground storage facilities to Liberty Gas Storage (Liberty).
We have asserted claims against Liberty for prematurely terminating the sublease and for damage caused to the facilities. In February 2011, Liberty asserted a counterclaim for costs in excess of $200 million associated with its use of the
facilities. Due to the lack of information currently available, we are unable to evaluate the merits of the counterclaim and determine the amount of any possible liability.

Other Divestiture Indemnifications

Pursuant to
various purchase and sale agreements relating to divested businesses and assets, we have indemnified certain purchasers against liabilities that they may incur with respect to the businesses and assets acquired from us. The indemnities provided to
the purchasers are customary in sale transactions and are contingent upon the purchasers incurring liabilities that are not otherwise recoverable from third parties. The indemnities generally relate to breach of warranties, tax, historic litigation,
personal injury, property damage, environmental matters, right of way and other representations that we have provided.

At December 31, 2011, other than as previously disclosed, we are not aware of any material claims involving the indemnities; thus, we do not expect any of the indemnities provided pursuant to the
sales agreements to have a material impact on our future financial position. Any claim for indemnity brought against us in the future may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the claim is made.

In addition to the foregoing, various other proceedings are pending against us which are incidental to our
operations.

Summary

We estimate that for all matters for which we are able to reasonably estimate a range of loss, including those noted above and others that are not individually significant, our aggregate reasonably
possible losses beyond


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

amounts accrued for all of our contingent liabilities are immaterial to our expected future annual results of operations, liquidity and financial position. These calculations have been made
without consideration of any potential recovery from third-parties. We have disclosed all significant matters for which we are unable to reasonably estimate a range of possible loss.

Commitments

Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and equipment are approximately $830 million at December 31, 2011.

Note 17. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)

The table below presents changes in the components of

accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss)

.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Note 18. Segment Disclosures

Our reporting segments are Williams Partners and Midstream Canada & Olefins. All remaining
business activities are included in Other. (See Note 1.)

Our segment presentation of Williams Partners is
reflective of the parent-level focus by our chief operating decision-maker, considering the resource allocation and governance provisions associated with this master limited partnership structure. WPZ maintains a capital and cash management
structure that is separate from ours. WPZ is self-funding and maintains its own lines of bank credit and cash management accounts. These factors, coupled with a different cost of capital from our other businesses, serve to differentiate the
management of this entity as a whole.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Performance Measurement

We currently evaluate performance based upon

segment profit (loss)

from operations, which includes

segment
revenues

from external and internal customers,

segment costs and expenses

,

equity earnings (losses)

and

income (loss) from investments

. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 1.
Intersegment sales are generally accounted for at current market prices as if the sales were to unaffiliated third parties.

The primary types of costs and operating expenses by segment can be generally summarized as follows:

•

Williams Partners—commodity purchases (primarily for NGL and crude marketing, shrink and fuel), depreciation and operation and maintenance
expenses;

•

Midstream Canada & Olefins—commodity purchases (primarily for shrink, feedstock and NGL and olefin marketing activities), depreciation
and operation and maintenance expenses.

The following geographic area data includes

revenues from external customers

based on product shipment origin and

long-lived assets

based upon physical location.

Our foreign operations are primarily located in Canada.

Long-lived assets

are
comprised of property, plant, and equipment, and other intangible assets.

As discussed in Notes 1 and 2, our
former exploration and production business was spun-off on December 31, 2011 and has been reported as discontinued operations in all periods presented. Revenues derived from intercompany sales to our former exploration and production business,
previously reported as internal, have been recast and are now shown as external. These sales were $310 million, $264 million, and $164 million for the years ended 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. In addition, costs attributable to activities with
our former exploration and production business, previously reported as internal, have been recast and are now shown as external. Such costs were $845 million, $797 million, and $541 million for the years ended 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The
following table reflects the reconciliation of

segment revenues

and

segment profit (loss)

to

revenues

and

operating income (loss)

as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Operations and

other financial information

related to

long-lived assets

.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

(1)

Does not include WPZ’s purchase of a business represented by certain gathering and processing assets in Colorado’s Piceance basin from our
former Exploration & Production segment now included in discontinued operations.

The following table reflects

total assets

and

equity method investments

by reporting segment, including
discontinued operations.

(a)

The decrease in the total assets of Other and Eliminations as compared to the prior year-end is substantially due to the forgiveness of an
intercompany long-term receivable in the second-quarter of 2011.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS – (Continued)

Note 19. Subsequent Events

In January 2012, WPZ completed an equity issuance of 7 million common units representing limited
partner interests at a price of $62.81 per unit. In February 2012, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 1.05 million common units for $62.81 per unit.

On February 17, 2012, Williams Partners completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interests in certain
entities from Delphi Midstream Partners, LLC in exchange for $325 million in cash, net of cash acquired in the transaction and subject to certain closing adjustments, and approximately 7.5 million in WPZ common units valued at $465 million. Our
valuation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed has not been completed because the acquisition is very recent. We expect the significant components of the valuation to include property, plant and equipment, intangible contract
assets and goodwill. The goodwill relates primarily to enhancing our strategic platform for expansion in the area. Revenues and earnings for the acquired companies are insignificant for the periods presented primarily because the Laser
Gathering System began operations in October 2011.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

(Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly financial data are as
follows:

The sum of earnings per share for the four quarters may not equal the total earnings
per share for the year due to changes in the average number of common shares outstanding and rounding.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA – (Continued)

(Unaudited)

On December 31, 2011, we completed the spin-off of our former
exploration and production business. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Summarized quarterly financial data has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the historical results of the exploration and production business as
discontinued operations. The increases (decreases) to amounts previously reported were as follows:

Net loss

for fourth-quarter 2011 includes the following pre-tax items:

•

$271 million of early debt retirement costs consisting primarily of cash premiums of $254 million (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements);

•

$560 million of impairment charges primarily related to impairments of certain properties of our discontinued exploration and production business in
the Powder River basin and Barnett Shale (see summarized results of discontinued operations at Note 2);

•

$179 million of impairment charges associated with our investment in WPX (see summarized results of discontinued operations at Note 2);

•

$33 million of income including associated interest related to the reduction of the Gulf Liquids litigation contingency accrual at Midstream
Canada & Olefins (See Notes 4 and 16);

•

$30 million of transaction costs related to the spin-off of our exploration and production former business (see summarized results of discontinued
operations at Note 2).


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA – (Continued)

(Unaudited)

Net loss

for fourth-quarter 2011 also includes a $26 million net
tax benefit associated with the write-down of certain indebtedness related to our former power operations (see summarized results of discontinued operations at Note 2).

Net income

for third-quarter 2011 includes a $66 million tax benefit to reverse taxes on undistributed earnings of
certain foreign operations that are now considered to be permanently reinvested (see Note 5).

Net
income

for first-quarter 2011 includes the following pre-tax items:

•

$11 million gain related to the sale of our 50 percent interest in Accroven at Other (see Note 3);

•

$10 million related to the reversal of project feasibility costs from expense to capital at Williams Partners (see Note 4).

Net income

for first-quarter 2011 also includes a $124 million tax benefit related
to finalized settlements and a revised assessment on an international matter (see Note 5).

Net income

for fourth-quarter 2010 includes the following tax adjustments:

•

$66 million provision to reflect taxes on undistributed earnings of certain foreign operations that were no longer consider permanently reinvested
(see Note 5). These taxes were reversed in the third quarter of 2011;

•

$65 million benefit to decrease state income taxes (net of federal benefit) due to a reduction in our estimate of the effective deferred state rate,
including state income tax carryovers (see Note 5).

Net loss

for third-quarter 2010
includes the following pre-tax items:

•

$1,003 million impairment of goodwill related to our former exploration and production business (see summarized results of discontinued operations
at Note 2);

•

$678 million of impairments of certain producing properties and acquired unproved reserves related to our former exploration and production
business (see summarized results of discontinued operations at Note 2);

•

$30 million gain related to the sale of our 50 percent interest in Accroven at Other (see Note 3);

•

$12 million gain on the sale of certain assets at Williams Partners (see Note 4).

Net income

for second-quarter 2010 includes the following pre-tax items:

•

$13 million gain related to the sale of our 50 percent interest in Accroven at Other (see Note 3);

•

$11 million of involuntary conversion gains due to insurance recoveries that are in excess of the carrying value of assets at Williams Partners (see
Note 4).

Net loss

for first-quarter 2010 includes the following pre-tax items:

•

$606 million of early debt retirement costs consisting primarily of cash premiums of $574 million (see Note 4);

•

$39 million of other transaction costs associated with our strategic restructuring transaction, of which $4 million are attributable to
noncontrolling interests (see Note 4);

•

$4 million of accelerated amortization of debt costs related to amendments of credit facilities (see Note 4).


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (PARENT)

See accompanying notes.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT - (Continued)

BALANCE SHEET (PARENT)

See accompanying notes.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT - (Continued)

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (PARENT)

See accompanying notes.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SCHEDULE I – CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OR REGISTRANT

NOTES TO FINANCIAL INFORMATION (PARENT)

Note 1. Guarantees

In addition to the guarantees
disclosed in the accompanying consolidated financial statements in Item 8, we have financially guaranteed the performance of certain consolidated subsidiaries. The duration of these guarantees varies and we estimate the maximum undiscounted
potential future payment obligation related to these guarantees as of December 31, 2011, is approximately $233 million. We estimate that the fair value of these guarantees is not material.

Note 2. Cash Dividends Received

We receive dividends and distributions either directly from our subsidiaries or indirectly through dividends received by subsidiaries and subsequent transfers of cash to us through our corporate cash
management system. The total of such receipts ultimately related to dividends and distributions for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $1.2 billion, $5.0 billion, and $635 million, respectively.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(a)

Deducted primarily from related assets, with a portion included in assets of discontinued operations.

(b)

Deducted from related assets, primarily included in assets of discontinued operations.

(c)

Deducted from related liabilities, included in liabilities of discontinued operations.

(d)

Included in

income (loss) from discontinued operations

.

(e)

Included in

accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

.

(f)

Represents balances written off, reclassifications, and recoveries.

(g)

Includes balance deductions due to the spin-off of our exploration and production business on December 31, 2011.

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management,
including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act) (Disclosure Controls) will prevent all
errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact
that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control
issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake.
Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override of the control. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain


assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Because of the
inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We monitor our Disclosure Controls and make modifications as necessary; our intent in this regard is that the Disclosure
Controls will be modified as systems change and conditions warrant.

An evaluation of the effectiveness of the
design and operation of our Disclosure Controls was performed as of the end of the period covered by this report. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer
and Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that these Disclosure Controls are effective at a reasonable assurance level.

Management’s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

See report set forth above in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

See report set forth above in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Changes in Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting

There have been no changes during the fourth quarter of 2011 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
materially affect, our Internal Controls over financial reporting.

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.


PART III

Item 10.

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

The information regarding our directors and nominees for director required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K will be
presented under the heading “Proposal 1 — Election of Directors” in our Proxy Statement prepared for the solicitation of proxies in connection with our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 17, 2012 (Proxy
Statement), which information is incorporated by reference herein.

Information regarding our executive
officers required by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K is presented at the end of Part I herein and captioned “Executive Officers of the Registrant” as permitted by General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K and
Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.

Information required by Item 405 of
Regulation S-K will be included under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein.

Information required by paragraphs (c)(3), (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Item 407 of Regulation S-K will be included
under the heading “Questions and Answers About the Annual Meeting and Voting” and “Corporate Governance and Board Matters” in our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein.

We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Officers that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial
Officer, and Controller, or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Ethics for Senior Officers, together with our Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters for each of our board committees, and our Code of Business Conduct applicable
to all employees are available on our Internet website at

www.williams.com.

We will provide, free of charge, a copy of our Code of Ethics or any of our other corporate documents listed above upon written request to our Corporate Secretary at
Williams, One Williams Center, Suite 4700, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172. We intend to disclose any amendments to or waivers of the Code of Ethics on behalf of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller, and persons performing
similar functions on our Internet website at

www.williams.com

under the Investor Relations caption, promptly following the date of any such amendment or waiver.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 402 and paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(5) of Item 407 of Regulation S-K
regarding executive compensation will be presented under the headings “Compensation Discussion and Analysis,” “Executive Compensation and Other Information,” “Compensation of Directors,” “Compensation Committee
Report on Executive Compensation,” and “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation” in our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the information
provided under the heading “Compensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation” in our Proxy Statement is furnished and shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, is not subject to the liabilities of that section and is not deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

The information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans required by Item 201(d)
of Regulation S-K and the security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be presented under the headings “Equity Compensation Stock Plans” and “Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management” in our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein.


Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

The information regarding certain relationships and related transactions required by Item 404 and Item 407(a) of
Regulation S-K will be presented under the heading “Corporate Governance and Board Matters” in our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein.

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and Services

The information regarding our principal accounting fees and services required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A will
be presented under the heading “Principal Accounting Fees and Services” in Proposal 2 Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Auditors of our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein.


PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

(a) 1 and 2.

All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not present or is
not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the information required is included in the financial statements and notes thereto.

(a) 3 and (b). The exhibits listed below are filed as part of this annual report.

INDEX TO EXHIBITS






*

Filed herewith

**

Furnished herewith

§

Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly
caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: February 27, 2012

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

INDEX TO EXHIBITS

*

Filed herewith

**

Furnished herewith

§

Management contract or compensation plan or arrangement