10-K


d12870e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, DC 20549

Form 10-K

Commission file number 1-4174

The Williams Companies, Inc.

(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in Its
Charter)

918-573-2000

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including
Area Code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

5.50% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures
due 2033

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of the voting and
non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by
reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold,
as of the last business day of the registrant’s most
recently completed second quarter was approximately
$4,096,500,669.

The number of shares outstanding of the
registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates
outstanding at February 27, 2004 was 519,304,009.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement
being prepared for the solicitation of proxies in connection
with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the registrant for
2004 are incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K.


THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

FORM 10-K


i


ii


DEFINITIONS

We use the following oil and gas measurements in
this report:

iii


PART I

Items 1 and
2.

Business and
Properties

In this report, Williams (which includes The
Williams Companies, Inc. and unless the context otherwise
requires, all of our subsidiaries) is at times referred to in
the first person as “we,” “us” or
“our.” We also sometimes refer to Williams as the
“Company.”

WEBSITE ACCESS TO REPORTS AND OTHER
INFORMATION

We file our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K, proxy statements and other documents
electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended. You may read and copy any materials that we file with
the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20549. You may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. You may also obtain such
reports from the SEC’s Internet website at

http://www.sec.gov.

We make available free of charge on or through
our Internet website at

http://www.williams.com

, our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Corporate
Governance Principles, Code of Ethics, Board committee charters
and Code of Business Conduct are also available on our Internet
website.

GENERAL

We are a natural gas company originally
incorporated under the laws of the state of Nevada in 1949 and
reincorporated under the laws of the state of Delaware in 1987.
We were founded in 1908 when two Williams brothers began a
construction company in Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Today, we primarily find, produce, gather,
process and transport natural gas. Our operations stretch across
the country and serve the Northwest, California, Rocky
Mountains, Gulf Coast and Eastern Seaboard markets.

The energy industry has substantially changed
over the last two years. Those changes have significantly
impacted our operations and will continue to impact future
operations. In light of the changed environment, on
February 20, 2003, we outlined our planned business
strategy for the next few years. Our refocused strategy is to
become a smaller integrated natural gas company focusing on key
growth markets. We also focused on bolstering our liquidity
through asset sales, strategic levels of financing and
reductions in operating costs to develop a balance sheet capable
of supporting and ultimately growing our remaining businesses.

Our principal executive offices are located at
One Williams Center, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172. Our telephone
number is 918-573-2000.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

Implementing Our Strategy

We expended considerable effort in 2003
implementing our refocused business strategy and have
successfully completed a number of the components of that
strategy including asset sales, cost reductions, improving our
financial position through a series of financial transactions,
and addressing issues surrounding our Power segment. Each of
those components is discussed in more detail below.



Asset sales

In 2003, consistent with the strategy outlined
above, we generated proceeds of approximately $3 billion
from the sale of assets. In addition, we realized proceeds from
the sale, termination and liquidation of Power contracts during
the year. We have completed the sale of or announced our
intention to sell the following:

Power

Gas pipeline

•

May 16, 2003 — We sold our Texas
    Gas Transmission pipeline to a subsidiary of Loews Corporation
    for approximately $1.045 billion, which included
    approximately $795 million in cash and assumption of
    $250 million in existing Texas Gas Transmission debt.

Exploration &
    production

•

May 30, 2003 — We sold certain
    exploration and production assets, on properties located in
    Kansas, Colorado, and New Mexico for net proceeds of
    $383 million.

•

June 2003 — We sold natural gas
    exploration and production properties in the Green River basin
    in southwest Wyoming and the Denver-Julesberg basin in
    northeastern Colorado for net proceeds of $34 million.

•

August 28, 2003 — We sold oil and
    gas properties in Brundage Canyon, Utah, to Berry Petroleum
    Company for net proceeds of $44 million.

Midstream

•

May 2, 2003 — We mutually agreed
    to terminate an agreement for the sale of certain of our South
    Texas natural gas transmission lines to Enbridge Energy
    Partners, L.P. because the parties were unable to obtain
    regulatory approvals from the Federal Energy Regulatory
    Commission (FERC). We intend to pursue an alternative
    transaction with another buyer under a structure that is
    responsive to the FERC’s concerns.

•

June 30, 2003 — We sold our
    45 percent ownership interest in the 223-mile Rio Grande
    Pipeline that transports natural gas liquids from Hobbs, New
    Mexico to Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua. Navajo Southern Inc., a
    wholly-owned subsidiary of Holly Corporation, purchased our
    interest for $27.5 million, subject to certain closing
    adjustments.



Other

Cost reductions

Our selling, general and administrative costs
from continuing operations decreased 28 percent and our
general corporate expenses decreased 39 percent. We are
continuing our efforts to reduce costs through internal
initiatives in which we are working to find more efficient and
cost effective means of providing internal



administrative and other services. We are also
exploring the possibility of outsourcing certain administrative
services.

Other efforts to improve our financial
position

In addition to asset sales and cost reductions,
we pursued other transactions to improve our financial position,
which included the following:

Addressing power issues

In 2003 we continued to pursue a strategy of
exiting the Power business. We sold, terminated or liquidated
certain Power contracts and assets. We have continued to manage
the activities of this business unit to reduce risk, to generate
cash, and to fulfill contractual commitments. We have also
expended considerable effort addressing civil litigation and
challenges and investigations by state and federal regulators
and attorneys general regarding the trading practices of
subsidiaries of our Power unit in California and other western
states in 2000 and 2001. These challenges include refund
proceedings, investigations of market manipulation, challenges
to long-term power sales to the State of California, and civil
litigation relating to each of these issues.

On November 11, 2002, we executed a
settlement agreement that resulted in renegotiated long-term
energy contracts with the State of California, resolution of
civil complaints brought by the California Attorney General,
resolution of refund claims by the State of California, and
resolution of ongoing investigations by the states of
California, Oregon, and Washington. The settlement did not
extend to criminal matters or matters of



willful fraud. All necessary approvals were
obtained and the settlement was closed on December 31,
2002. Private class action and other civil plaintiffs who have
initiated class action litigation against us and others in
California based on allegations in connection with the
California energy crises also executed the settlement, although
court approval is needed to make the settlement effective as to
those plaintiffs and to terminate the class actions with respect
to us. On October 24, 2003, the court granted a motion for
preliminary approval of the settlement. The final approval
hearing is currently scheduled for June 4, 2004.

On Oct. 25, 2002, we disclosed that our
internal review of our trading activities revealed that a few
non-managerial employees had engaged in inaccurate reporting of
natural gas trades to energy publications that compile and
report index prices. We voluntarily reported these findings to
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and other
relevant federal agencies. On July 29, 2003, we announced
that we and our subsidiary, Williams Power Company, Inc.,
reached a settlement with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission on the matter pursuant to which we paid a civil
penalty of $20 million, the CFTC closed its investigation
and we did not admit or deny allegations of false reporting or
attempted manipulation. The U.S. Department of
Justice (DOJ) is continuing to investigate the matter.
Civil suits based on allegations of manipulating gas indexes
have been brought against us and others in federal and state
courts.

On March 26, 2003, the FERC issued a report
on an investigation by the agency into price manipulation in the
western energy markets in 2000 and 2001. The report cleared us
of an allegation that we attempted to corner the gas market. On
January 22, 2004, the FERC approved a settlement between us
and the FERC trial staff of all Enron trading practices for
$45,000. The agency is continuing its investigation of physical
and economic withholding.

On February 25, 2004, we announced that we
had reached agreement on terms to settle with two California
utilities, Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) and
Southern California Edison Company, resolving outstanding
disputes, including refund liability related to natural gas and
power markets in 2000 and 2001. The settlement will be subject
to approval of the FERC, the California Public Utilities
Commission and the U.S. Bankruptcy Court administering
PG&E’s bankruptcy proceedings.

See Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statement for more information about investigations
and proceedings involving energy trading practices, including
our continued involvement in FERC and related refund proceedings.

Other events

On March 17, 2003, the FERC approved a
settlement of issues raised during a joint investigation of
Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation’s (Transco) and
Williams Power Company’s compliance with regulations
governing the relationship between interstate gas pipelines and
marketing affiliates. Pursuant to the settlement, we will pay a
$20 million civil penalty to the FERC over the next four
years and Transco will discontinue firm sales services by
April 1, 2005. The settlement also places restrictions on
Power’s ability to transport gas on affiliated pipelines.
We also agreed to implement a compliance program to ensure
future compliance with the settlement agreement and FERC’s
marketing affiliate rules. See Note 16 of our Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
settlement.

On May 15, 2003, our shareholders approved a
stock option exchange program. Under this exchange program,
eligible employees were given a one-time opportunity to exchange
certain outstanding options for a proportionately lesser number
of options at an exercise price which was based on the market
value of our common stock on the grant date of the new options.
Surrendered options for 10.4 million shares were cancelled
June 26, 2003, and replacement options for 3.9 million
shares were granted on December 29, 2003.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS

See Note 19 of our Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for information with respect to each
segment’s revenues, profits or losses and total assets.



BUSINESS SEGMENTS

General

Substantially all of our operations are conducted
through our subsidiaries. To achieve organizational and
operating efficiencies, our activities are primarily operated
through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Williams Power Company; our
interstate natural gas pipelines and pipeline joint venture
investments are organized under our wholly-owned subsidiary,
Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC; our Exploration &
Production business is operated through several wholly-owned
subsidiaries including Williams Production Company LLC and
Williams Production RMT Company; our Midstream business is
operated primarily through wholly-owned subsidiaries including
Williams Field Services Group, Inc. and Williams Natural Gas
Liquids, Inc.; and our previously reported Petroleum Services
and International segments are now reported under our Other
segment. This report is organized to reflect this structure.

Our business segments include Power, Gas
Pipeline, Exploration & Production, Midstream, and
Other. An overview and detailed discussion of each of our
business segments follows.

Power

Power overview

•

Our Power segment, formerly known as Energy
    Marketing & Trading, is an energy services provider
    that buys, sells and transports a full suite of energy and
    energy-related commodities, including power, natural gas,
    refined products, crude oil and emissions credits, primarily on
    a wholesale level.

•

We have sold certain portions of the Power
    portfolio, liquidated certain positions and are negotiating with
    various parties for a joint venture or sale of all or a portion
    of the remainder of our trading portfolio.

Power details

In June 2002, we announced our intent to exit the
power business and reduce our financial commitment to our Power
segment. Until the portfolio is completely sold or liquidated,
we continue to operate and manage the risk associated with our
remaining contracts and our assets in order to maximize cash
flow and, where possible, reduce risk within the portfolio. Our
contracts include various financial instruments and structured
transactions. Our financial instruments include exchange-traded
futures, over-the-counter forwards, options and swaps.
Structured transactions include tolling contracts and full
requirements contracts, which are explained in the next two
paragraphs. Through our contracts, we buy, sell, store and
transport energy and energy-related commodities. These energy
and energy-related commodities include power, natural gas,
refined products, crude oil, and emission credits.

Tolling contracts represent the most significant
portion of our remaining portfolio. Under the tolling contracts,
we have the right to request a plant owner to convert our fuel
(usually natural gas) to electricity in exchange for a fixed
fee. We have the right to request approximately 7,700 megawatts
of electricity under six tolling agreements. The table below
lists the locations and capacity of each of our tolling
agreements:



We use portions of the electricity produced under
the tolling agreements to supply obligations under
counterparty-tailored arrangements known as full requirements
contracts. Under full requirements contracts, we supply the
electricity required by our counterparties to serve their
customers. Through full requirements contracts, we supply
approximately 1,146 megawatts of electricity in Georgia and
Pennsylvania.

We have resold part of our rights (1,045 to 1,175
megawatts) under the California tolling arrangement to the
California Department of Water Resources.

Additionally, we have rights to sell energy and
capacity from two natural gas-fired electric generating plants
owned by affiliated companies and located near Bloomfield,
New Mexico (60 megawatts) and in Hazleton,
Pennsylvania (147 megawatts).

In 2003, we marketed natural gas throughout North
America with total physical volumes averaging 2.7 billion
cubic feet per day. With approximately 20 percent of this
natural gas, we fuel electric generating plants we own or have
contractual rights to. We sell approximately 28 percent of this
natural gas to customers including local distribution companies,
utilities, producers, industrials and other gas marketers. With
the remaining 52 percent, we procure gas supply for our
Midstream operations, sell gas produced by
Exploration & Production and manage firm service
contracts for Gas Pipeline.

In 2003, we marketed on average approximately
77,000 barrels per day of physical crude oil and petroleum
products to petroleum producers, refiners and end-users in the
United States and various international regions.

In 2003, we substantially exited our European
activities, which had been conducted through our London office.

Operating statistics

The following table summarizes marketing and
trading gross sales volumes for the periods indicated:

Power

As of December 31, 2003, our Power segment
had approximately 234 customers compared with 287 customers at
the end of 2002.

Regulatory and legal matters

Our Power business is subject to a variety of
laws and regulations at the local, state and federal levels. The
FERC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission regulate us.
Electricity and natural gas markets in California and elsewhere
continue to be subject to numerous and wide-ranging federal and
state regulatory proceedings and investigations. They are also
subject to civil actions regarding, among other things, market



structure, behavior of market participants,
market prices, and reporting to trade publications. Discussions
in California and other states have ranged from threats of
re-regulation to suspension of plans to move forward with
deregulation. Allegations have also been made that wholesale
price increases resulted from the exercise of market power and
collusion of the power generators and sellers, such as us. These
allegations have resulted in multiple state and federal
investigations as well as the filing of class-action lawsuits in
which we are named a defendant. Our long-term power contract
with the California Department of Water Resources has also been
challenged both at the FERC and in civil suits. On
November 11, 2002, we executed a settlement agreement that
resolved many of these disputes with the State of California
with respect to non-criminal matters. This settlement agreement
includes renegotiated long-term energy contracts. The settlement
also resolved complaints brought by the California Attorney
General against us and the State of California’s refund
claims. In addition, the settlement resolved ongoing
investigations by the States of California, Oregon, and
Washington. The settlement closed December 31, 2002,
although certain court approvals are pending. Notwithstanding
this settlement, numerous investigations and actions related to
our segment remain. We may be liable for refunds and other
damages and penalties as a result of the above actions and
investigations. We discuss each of these matters as well as
other regulatory and legal matters in more detail in
Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The outcome of these matters could affect our creditworthiness
and ability to perform contractual obligations as well as other
market participants’ creditworthiness and ability to
perform contractual obligations.

Competition and market environment

We compete directly with large independent energy
marketers, marketing affiliates of regulated pipelines and
utilities and natural gas producers. We also compete with both
brokerage houses and other energy-based companies offering
similar services. Since 2002, we have fewer competitors due to
the exit of independent energy marketers from the marketplace
and the exit of utilities from financial merchant activities. We
anticipate more competition in the future from brokerage houses,
which are increasing their trading activity.

As a result of the credit rating downgrades to
below investment grade levels in 2002, certain of our
counterparties require adequate assurance or alternate credit
support. In addition, under our industry standard derivative
agreements, we are required to fund margin requirements with
cash, letters of credit or other negotiable instruments. In
2003, however, due to improvements in our credit and liquidity,
we were able to negotiate lower collateral requirements with
certain brokers and counterparties.

Certain of our counterparties have experienced
significant declines in their financial stability and
creditworthiness, which may adversely impact their ability to
perform under contracts. Revenues from two counterparties, which
have credit ratings below investment grade, constitute
approximately 12 percent of Power’s gross revenues.
Our exposure to these counterparties may be mitigated by the
existence of netting arrangements. In conjunction with efforts
to sell or liquidate all or portions of our portfolio, we closed
out or sold positions with a number of counterparties in 2003.
Credit constraints and financial instability of market
participants are expected to continue in 2004. These factors may
also significantly impact our ability to manage market risk.

Ownership of property

Power’s primary assets are its term
contracts, related systems and technological support. As
mentioned, we intend to sell or liquidate all or portions of our
portfolio. No assurances can be made regarding the ultimate
consummation of any sale or liquidation. As discussed further in
Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,
derivative contracts in our portfolio have been recognized at
their estimated fair value. According to generally accepted
accounting principles (GAAP), fair value is the amount at which
an instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction
between willing parties other than in a forced liquidation or
sale. Non-derivative contracts are not recognized until revenue
is earned or expenses have been incurred. Certain of our tolling
agreements have a negative fair value, which is not reflected in
our financial statements since these agreements are
non-derivatives. These tolling agreements may result in future
accrual losses. See Note 1 of our Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements and our Management’s Discussion and



Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations for further discussion of our adoption of Emerging
Issues Task Force Issue No. 02-3.

Amounts ultimately received in any portfolio
sale, contract liquidation or realization may be significantly
different than the estimated economic value or the carrying
values presented in the financial statements. It is possible
that we may sell contracts for less than their carrying value or
enter into agreements to terminate certain obligations, either
of which could result in future loss recognition or reductions
of future cash flows.

Environmental matters

Our generation facilities are subject to various
environmental laws and regulations, including those regarding
emissions. We believe compliance with various environmental laws
and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. However,
these laws and regulations may affect facility availability from
time to time.

Gas pipeline

Gas pipeline overview

•

We own one of the nation’s largest
    interstate natural gas pipeline systems with 14,600 miles
    of interstate natural gas pipelines for transportation of
    natural gas across the country to utilities and industrial
    customers.

•

Our pipelines include Transco, Northwest Pipeline
    Corporation (Northwest Pipeline) and several pipeline joint
    ventures.

•

We also own a 50 percent interest in the
    Gulfstream Pipeline.

Gas pipeline details

We own and operate, through Williams Gas Pipeline
Company, LLC and its subsidiaries (Gas Pipeline), a combined
total of approximately 14,600 miles of pipelines with a
total annual throughput of approximately 2,600 trillion
British Thermal Units of natural gas and peak-day delivery
capacity of approximately 11 billion cubic feet of gas. Gas
Pipeline consists of Transco and Northwest Pipeline. Gas
Pipeline also holds interests in joint venture interstate and
intrastate natural gas pipeline systems including a
50 percent interest in the Gulfstream Natural Gas
System, L.L.C.

In February 2001, one of our subsidiaries and a
subsidiary of Duke Energy completed a joint acquisition of The
Coastal Corporation’s 100 percent ownership interest
in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C., and announced that
they were proceeding with the development of the Gulfstream gas
pipeline project. In June, 2001 construction commenced on the
project, which consists of a new natural gas pipeline system
extending from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in
Florida. On December 28, 2001, Gulfstream filed an
application with the FERC to allow Gulfstream to complete the
construction of its approved facilities in phases. On
May 28, 2002, the first phase of the project was placed
into service at a cost of approximately $1.5 billion. The
scheduled in-service date for the second phase of the project is
May 1, 2005. The total estimated capital cost of both
phases of the project is approximately $1.7 billion. At
December 31, 2003, our investment in Gulfstream was
$731 million.

On April 24, 2001 the respective general
partners of U.S. and Canadian general partnerships that are
pursuing the Georgia Strait Crossing Pipeline Project (GSX),
filed separate applications with the FERC and Canada’s
National Energy Board (NEB) to construct and operate a new
pipeline that will provide firm transportation capacity from
Sumas, Washington to Vancouver Island, British Columbia. GSX is
a project being pursued jointly between Gas Pipeline and BC
Hydro, in part to meet the needs of the Vancouver Island
Generation Plant (VIGP). On September 20, 2002, the FERC
issued an order approving the construction and operation of the
U.S. portion of the project. An NEB certificate approving
the project in Canada was issued on December 15, 2003.
Construction of the GSX project is contingent upon a favorable
outcome of a British Columbia Utilities Commission mandated call
for tenders process which is being pursued by BC Hydro to



determine whether the energy needs on Vancouver
Island should be served by VIGP. The current estimated cost of
GSX is approximately $210 million, with Gas Pipeline’s
share of any completed project being 50 percent of such
amount.

Regulatory matters

Gas Pipeline’s interstate transmission and
storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC under
the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and under the Natural Gas Policy Act
of 1978, and, as such, its rates and charges for the
transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, the
extension, enlargement or abandonment of jurisdictional
facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to
regulation. Each gas pipeline company holds certificates of
public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC authorizing
ownership and operation of all pipelines, facilities and
properties for which certificates are required under the Natural
Gas Act of 1938. Each gas pipeline company is also subject to
the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended by
Title I of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 and the Pipeline
Safety Improvement Act of 2002, which regulate safety
requirements in the design, construction, operation and
maintenance of interstate natural gas transmission facilities.
Cardinal Pipeline Company, LLC, a North Carolina natural gas
pipeline company that is operated and 45 percent owned by
Gas Pipeline, is subject to the jurisdiction of the North
Carolina Utilities Commission.

Each of our interstate natural gas pipeline
companies establishes its rates primarily through the
FERC’s ratemaking process. Key determinants in the
ratemaking process are (1) costs of providing service,
including depreciation expense, (2) allowed rate of return,
including the equity component of the capital structure and
related income taxes and (3) volume throughput assumptions.
The FERC determines the allowed rate of return in each rate
case. Rate design and the allocation of costs between the demand
and commodity rates also impact profitability. As a result of
these proceedings, certain revenues previously collected may be
subject to refund. See Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for the amounts accrued for potential
refund at December 31, 2003.

On March 17, 2003, we entered into a
settlement with FERC regarding its investigation of the
relationship between Transco and Power whereby Transco will pay
a civil penalty in the amount of $20 million payable over a
five-year period. In addition, we agreed to certain operational
restrictions and agreed to implement a compliance program to
ensure future compliance with the settlement agreement and
FERC’s marketing affiliate rules. See Note 16 of our
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
information on the settlement.

Competition

The FERC has taken various actions to strengthen
market forces in the natural gas pipeline industry which has led
to increased competition throughout the industry. In a number of
key markets, interstate pipelines are now facing competitive
pressures from other major pipeline systems, enabling local
distribution companies and end users to choose a supplier or
switch suppliers based on the short-term price of gas and the
cost of transportation. We expect competition for natural gas
transportation to continue to intensify in future years due to
increased customer access to other pipelines, rate ,
competitiveness among pipelines, customers’ desire to have
more than one transporter, shorter contract terms and regulatory
developments. Future utilization of pipeline capacity will
depend on competition from other pipelines, use of alternative
fuels, the general level of natural gas demand and weather
conditions. Electricity and distillate fuel oil are the primary
competitive forms of energy for residential and commercial
markets. Coal and residual fuel oil compete for industrial and
electric generation markets. Nuclear and hydroelectric power and
power purchased from electric transmission grid arrangements
among electric utilities also compete with gas-fired electric
generation in certain markets.

Suppliers of natural gas are able to compete for
any gas markets capable of being served by pipelines using
nondiscriminatory transportation services provided by the
pipeline companies. As the regulated environment has matured,
many pipeline companies have faced reduced levels of subscribed
capacity as contractual terms expire and customers opt to reduce
firm capacity under contract in favor of alternative



sources of transmission and related services.
This situation, known in the industry as “capacity
turnback,” is forcing the pipeline companies to evaluate
the consequences of major demand reductions in traditional
long-term contracts. It could also result in significant shifts
in system utilization, and possible realignment of cost
structure for remaining customers since all interstate natural
gas pipeline companies continue to be authorized to charge
maximum rates approved by the FERC on a cost of service basis.
Gas Pipeline does not anticipate any significant financial
impact from “capacity turnback.” We anticipate that we
will be able to remarket most future capacity subject to
capacity turnback, although competition may cause some of the
remarketed capacity to be sold at lower rates or for shorter
terms.

Several state jurisdictions have been involved in
implementing changes similar to the changes that have occurred
at the federal level. New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Georgia, Delaware, Virginia, California, Wyoming, and
the District of Columbia are currently at various points in the
process of unbundling services at local distribution companies.
Management expects the implementation of these changes to
encourage greater competition in the natural gas marketplace.

Ownership of property

Each of our interstate natural gas pipeline
companies generally owns its facilities, with certain portions
being held jointly with third parties. However, a substantial
portion of each pipeline company’s facilities is
constructed and maintained pursuant to rights-of-way, easements,
permits, licenses or consents on and across properties owned by
others. Our compressor stations and appurtenant facilities are
located on lands owned by us or on sites leased from or
permitted by public authorities. The storage facilities are
either owned or held under long-term leases or easements.

Environmental matters

Each of our interstate natural gas pipelines is
subject to the National Environmental Policy Act and federal,
state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental
protection. We believe that, with respect to any capital
expenditures and operation and maintenance expenses required to
meet applicable environmental standards and regulations, the
FERC would grant the requisite rate relief so that our pipeline
companies could recover most of the cost of these expenditures
in their rates. For this reason, we believe that compliance with
applicable environmental requirements by the interstate pipeline
companies is not likely to have a material adverse effect upon
our earnings or competitive position.

For a discussion of specific environmental issues
involving the interstate pipelines, including estimated cleanup
costs associated with certain pipeline activities, see
“Environmental” under Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and
“Environmental Matters” in Note 16 of our Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Principal Companies in the Gas Pipeline
    Segment

A business description of the principal companies
in the interstate natural gas pipeline group follows.

Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation
    (Transco)

Transco is an interstate natural gas
transportation company that owns and operates a 10,500-mile
natural gas pipeline system extending from Texas, Louisiana,
Mississippi and the offshore Gulf of Mexico through Alabama,
Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland,
Pennsylvania, and New Jersey to the New York City
metropolitan area. The system serves customers in Texas and
eleven southeast and Atlantic seaboard states, including major
metropolitan areas in Georgia, North Carolina, New York,
New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. Effective May 1, 1995,
Transco transferred the operation of certain production area
facilities to Williams Field Services Group, Inc. (Williams
Field Services), an affiliated company and part of the Midstream
segment.



Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2003, Transco’s system
had a mainline delivery capacity of approximately 4.7 MMdt
of natural gas per day from its production areas to its primary
markets. Using its Leidy Line and market-area storage capacity,
Transco can deliver an additional 3.4 MMdt of natural gas
per day for a system-wide delivery capacity total of
approximately 8.1 MMdt of natural gas per day.
Transco’s system includes 44 compressor stations, five
underground storage fields, two liquefied natural gas (LNG)
storage facilities and four processing plants. Compression
facilities at a sea level-rated capacity total approximately
1.5 million horsepower.

Transco’s major natural gas transportation
customers are public utilities and municipalities that provide
service to residential, commercial, industrial and electric
generation end users. Shippers on Transco’s system include
public utilities, municipalities, intrastate pipelines, direct
industrial users, electrical generators, gas marketers and
producers. One customer accounted for approximately 12 percent
of Transco’s total revenues in 2003. Transco’s firm
transportation agreements are generally long-term agreements
with various expiration dates and account for the major portion
of Transco’s business. Additionally, Transco offers storage
services and interruptible transportation services under
short-term agreements.

Transco has natural gas storage capacity in five
underground storage fields located on or near its pipeline
system or market areas and operates three of these storage
fields. Transco also has storage capacity in a LNG storage
facility and operates the facility. The total usable gas storage
capacity available to Transco and its customers in such
underground storage fields and LNG storage facility and through
storage service contracts is approximately 216 billion
cubic feet of gas. In addition, wholly-owned subsidiaries of
Transco operate and hold a 35 percent ownership interest in
Pine Needle LNG Company, an LNG storage facility with four
billion cubic feet of storage capacity. Storage capacity permits
Transco’s customers to inject gas into storage during the
summer and off-peak periods for delivery during peak winter
demand periods.

Expansion projects

In 2003 and early 2004, Transco completed
construction of, and placed into service, two major projects,
the Momentum Expansion Project and the Trenton-Woodbury
Expansion Project.

Momentum Expansion Project

Pursuant to a FERC certificate, Transco placed
    into service the Momentum Expansion Project, an expansion of its
    pipeline system from Station 65 in Louisiana to Station 165 in
    Virginia. The first phase, consisting of approximately 269
    Mdt/d, was placed into service on May 1, 2003. On
    February 1, 2004, Transco placed into service the second
    phase of the project consisting of 54 Mdt/d. All of the
    expansion capacity is fully subscribed by shippers under
    long-term firm arrangements. The project facilities include
    approximately 50 miles of pipeline looping and 45,000
    horsepower of compression. The revised capital cost of the
    project is estimated to be approximately $189 million.

Trenton-Woodbury Expansion
    Project

On November 1, 2003, Transco placed into
    service a 51 Mdt/d expansion of its Trenton-Woodbury Line, which
    runs from its mainline at Station 200 in eastern Pennsylvania,
    around the metropolitan Philadelphia area and southern New
    Jersey area, to its mainline near Station 205. All of the
    expansion capacity is fully subscribed by shippers under
    long-term firm arrangements. The project facilities include
    approximately seven miles of pipeline looping at an
    estimated capital cost of approximately $22 million.

Central New Jersey Expansion
    Project

On January 14, 2004, Transco announced that
    it was holding an open season from January 14, 2004 to
    February 13, 2004 to receive requests for incremental firm
    transportation service to be made available through its Central
    New Jersey Expansion Project, a proposed expansion of
    Transco’s pipeline system in Transco’s Zone 6
    from Station 210 to locations along Transco’s
    Trenton-Woodbury Line. As a result of the open season, the
    expansion has been designed to create approximately
    105 Mdt/d of new firm



transportation capacity, which will be fully
    subscribed under a long-term arrangement with one shipper. The
    project facilities will include approximately 3.5 miles of
    pipeline loop at an estimated capital cost of $13 million.
    Transco plans to file for FERC approval of the project in the
    second quarter of 2004. The target in-service date for the
    project is November 1, 2005.

Operating statistics

The following table summarizes transportation
data for the Transco system for the periods indicated:

Transco’s facilities are divided into eight
rate zones. Five are located in the production area, and three
are located in the market area. Long-haul transportation
involves gas that Transco receives in one of the production-area
zones and delivers to a market-area zone. Market-area
transportation involves gas that Transco both receives and
delivers within the market-area zones. Production-area
transportation involves gas that Transco both receives and
delivers within the production-area zones.

Northwest Pipeline Corporation (Northwest
    Pipeline)

Northwest Pipeline is an interstate natural gas
transportation company that owns and operates a natural gas
pipeline system extending from the San Juan Basin in
northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado through
Colorado, Utah, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon and Washington to a point
on the Canadian border near Sumas, Washington. Northwest
Pipeline provides services for markets in California, New
Mexico, Colorado, Utah, Nevada, Wyoming, Idaho, Oregon and
Washington directly or indirectly through interconnections with
other pipelines.

Pipeline system and customers

At December 31, 2003, Northwest
Pipeline’s system, having long term firm transportation
agreements with peaking capacity of approximately
3.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day, was composed
of approximately 4,100 miles of mainline and lateral
transmission pipelines and 42 compressor stations having
sea level-rated capacity of approximately
462,000 horsepower.

On May 1, 2003, a line break occurred on our
26-inch gas transmission pipeline near Lake Tapps in Pierce
County, Washington. The line break did not result in ignition
and there were no injuries. On May 2, 2003, the Office of
Pipeline Safety (OPS) initiated an investigation and issued
a Corrective Action Order (CAO) requiring us to reduce the
pressure in our 26-inch line from Sumas to Washougal, Washington
to 80 percent of Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure
(MAOP), determine the cause, and work to remedy the cause of the
line break. We subsequently determined that the line break was
caused by stress corrosion cracking (SCC) and implemented a
variety of processes to ensure the integrity of our pipeline.
Specifically, we completed surface and in-line inspection of
certain segments of the line and were developing and executing
plans to return the line to service prior to an additional line
break occurring in December 2003.

On December 13, 2003, we experienced another
line break on the same line seventy miles south near Toledo,
Washington. This line break occurred during pendency of the OPS
CAO referred to above and the



OPS issued an Amendment to the May 2 CAO as
a result. This amendment requires us to idle the 26-inch line,
conduct a detailed metallurgical analysis on the failure,
finalize an integrity management program specifically for the
26-inch line, and develop a plan for the eventual replacement of
the pipe. The Amendment also requires that we evaluate other
facilities in the general area of the line breaks for
susceptibility to SCC. We filed a request for hearing on
December 29, 2003 to achieve clarity about certain
requirements in the Amended CAO. This hearing occurred in Denver
on January 21, 2004, and we are awaiting a final order. We
continue to work closely with the OPS to obtain clarity in any
requirements associated with restoring pressure in affected
segments of the line, through a combination of hydrostatic
testing and in-line inspection, by the summer of 2004. Working
with customers, we have thus far been able to meet their firm
nominations, and continue to work with customers to determine
the extent to which the capacity of the 26-inch line will
ultimately need to be replaced. The estimated combined cost to
inspect, hydrostatically test, to temporarily restore a portion
of the line to service, and to ultimately replace up to the
entire 360 Mdt/d of capacity, if required, by the end of 2006 is
estimated to range between $365 million and
$430 million. We anticipate filing a rate case to recover
these costs coincident with the in-service date of the
facilities.

In 2003, Northwest Pipeline transported natural
gas for a total of 175 customers. Transportation customers
include distribution companies, municipalities, interstate and
intrastate pipelines, gas marketers and direct industrial users.
The three largest customers of Northwest Pipeline in 2003
accounted for approximately 12.4 percent, 11.7 percent
and 10.3 percent, respectively, of its total operating
revenues. No other customer accounted for more than
10 percent of Northwest Pipeline’s total operating
revenues in 2003. Northwest Pipeline’s firm transportation
agreements are generally long-term agreements with various
expiration dates and account for the major portion of Northwest
Pipeline’s business. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline
offers interruptible and short-term firm transportation service.

As a part of its transportation services,
Northwest Pipeline utilizes underground storage facilities in
Utah and Washington enabling it to balance daily receipts and
deliveries. Northwest Pipeline also owns and operates a LNG
storage facility in Washington that provides service for
customers during a few days of extreme demands. These storage
facilities have an aggregate firm delivery capacity of
approximately 600 million cubic feet of gas per day.

Expansion projects

Rockies Expansion Project

On November 1, 2003, Northwest Pipeline
    placed into service most of the facilities associated with its
    Rockies Expansion Project, an expansion of its pipeline system
    designed to provide an additional 175 MDt/d of capacity to
    its transmission system in Wyoming and Idaho in order to reduce
    reliance on displacement capacity. The remaining facilities were
    placed into service on November 30, 2003. The project
    included the installation of 91 miles of pipeline loop and
    the upgrading or modification of six compressor stations for a
    total increase of 26,057 horsepower. A majority of Northwest
    Pipeline’s firm shippers agreed to support roll-in of the
    expansion costs into its existing rates. The estimated cost of
    the expansion project is approximately $140 million, of
    which approximately $16 million has been offset by
    settlement funds received from a former customer in connection
    with a contract restructuring.

Evergreen Expansion Project

On October 1, 2003, Northwest Pipeline
    placed into service its Evergreen Expansion Project, an
    expansion of its pipeline system designed to provide
    277 Mdt/d of firm transportation service from Sumas,
    Washington to Chehalis, Washington to serve new power generation
    demand in western Washington. The project included installation
    of 28 miles of pipeline loop, upgrading, replacing or
    modifying five compressor stations and adding a net total of
    64,160 horsepower of compression. The estimated cost of the
    expansion project is approximately $198 million including
    the allocated portion of the Columbia Gorge Project discussed
    below. The Evergreen Expansion customers have agreed to pay for
    the cost of service of this expansion on an incremental basis.



Columbia Gorge Expansion
    Project

On October 1, 2003 Northwest Pipeline placed
    into service its Columbia Gorge project, an expansion of its
    pipeline system designed to replace 56 Mdt/d of northflow
    design displacement capacity from Stanfield, Oregon to
    Washougal, Washington. The project includes upgrading, replacing
    or modifying five existing compressor stations and adding a net
    total of 23,900 horsepower of compression. A majority of
    Northwest Pipeline’s firm shippers have agreed to support
    roll-in of approximately 84 percent of the expansion costs
    into the existing rates with the remainder to be allocated to
    the incremental Evergreen Expansion customers. The estimated
    cost of the expansion project is approximately $43 million.

Operating statistics

The following table summarizes transportation
data for the Northwest Pipeline System for the periods indicated:

(1)

Consists primarily of additional capacity created
    from time to time through the installation of new receipt or
    delivery points or the segmentation of existing mainline
    capacity. Such capacity is generally marketed on a short-term
    firm basis, because it does not involve the construction of
    additional mainline capacity.

Exploration & production

Exploration & production
    overview

•

We produce, develop, explore for and manage
    natural gas reserves primarily located in the Rocky Mountain and
    Mid-Continent regions of the United States.

•

We produce natural gas predominately from
    tight-sand formations and coal bed methane reserves.

•

We own 2.7 trillion cubic feet equivalent of
    proved natural gas reserves in the United States as of
    December 31, 2003.

We also own and manage certain international oil
and gas investments, including a 69 percent equity
investment in APCO Argentina Inc., an oil and gas exploration
and production company whose securities are traded on the NASDAQ
under symbol APAGF.

Exploration & production
    details

Our Exploration & Production segment,
which is comprised of several wholly-owned subsidiaries,
including Williams Production Company LLC and Williams
Production RMT Company (RMT), produces, develops, explores for
and manages natural gas reserves primarily located in the Rocky
Mountain and Mid-Continent regions of the United States. We
specialize in natural gas production from tight-sands formations
and coal bed methane reserves in the Piceance, San Juan,
Powder River and Arkoma basins. Over 99 percent of
Exploration & Production’s domestic reserves are
natural gas. Our Exploration & Production segment is
also comprised of international oil and gas interests, which
include a 69 percent equity interest in APCO Argentina, an
oil and gas exploration and production company with operations
in Argentina, and a 10 percent interest in the
La Concepcion area located in western Venezuela.

Exploration & Production’s primary
strategy is to utilize its expertise in the development of
tight-sands and coalbed methane reserves. Exploration &
Production’s current proved undeveloped and probable
reserves



provide us with strong capital investment
opportunities for several years into the future.
Exploration & Production’s goal is to drill its
existing proved undeveloped reserves, which comprise nearly
57 percent of proved reserves and to drill in areas of
probable reserves. In addition, Exploration &
Production provides a significant amount of equity production
that is gathered and/or processed by our Midstream facilities in
the San Juan basin.

Information for our Exploration &
Production segment relates only to domestic activity unless
otherwise noted.

Pledged assets

Certain exploration and production assets managed
through RMT serve as collateral for a $500 million term
loan facility established in May 2003 and amended in February
2004. This facility, as amended in February 2004, matures
May 30, 2008 and represents a first priority lien on
substantially all of our Piceance and Powder River basin assets
and any future assets in these basins.

Oil and gas properties

Exploration & Production’s
properties are located primarily in the Rocky Mountain and
Mid-Continent regions of the United States. Rocky Mountain
properties are located primarily in New Mexico, Wyoming and
Colorado. All of our Mid-Continent properties are located in
Oklahoma. We use the terms “gross” to refer to all
wells or acreage in which we have at least a partial working
interest and “net” to refer to our ownership
represented by that working interest.

Rocky Mountain properties

Piceance Basin

The Piceance Basin is located in northwestern
Colorado, where we primarily target the tight sands contained
within the Williams Fork Mesaverde formation. The Piceance Basin
is our largest area of concentrated development comprising
approximately 58 percent of our proved reserves. This area
has approximately 1,075 undrilled proved locations in inventory.
Probable reserves in this basin provide significant potential
beyond our existing proved reserves. Within this basin, we are
the owner and operator of a natural gas gathering system and,
thus, have the ability to gather, process and deliver to four
interstate and one intrastate pipelines. In 2003, we drilled
76 gross wells and produced a net of approximately
64 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) of natural gas from
the Piceance Basin. Our estimated proved reserves in the
Piceance Basin at year-end 2003 were 1,560 Bcfe.

San Juan Basin

The San Juan Basin is a large gas producing
area, located in northwest New Mexico and southwest Colorado. We
produce natural gas primarily from the Fruitland Coal,
Mesaverde, Pictured Cliffs and Dakota formations. In 2003, we
participated in the drilling of 173 gross wells, of which
we operate 19, and produced a net of approximately 51 Bcfe
from the San Juan Basin. Our estimated proved reserves in
the San Juan Basin at year-end 2003 were 702 Bcfe.

Powder River Basin

Located in northeast Wyoming, the Powder River
Basin includes large areas with multiple coal seam potential,
targeting thick coalbed methane formations at shallow depths. We
are one of the largest natural gas producers in the Powder River
Basin and operate approximately half of our large leasehold
position in the basin, where we own an interest in approximately
1,000,000 gross acres. We operate 2,300 wells in the
basin and have an interest in an additional 2,500 wells. We
have a significant inventory of undrilled locations, providing
long-term drilling opportunities. In 2003, we drilled
560 gross wells from this basin, of which we operate 410,
and produced a net of approximately 47 Bcfe of natural gas.
Our estimated proved reserves in the



Powder River Basin at year-end 2003 were
263 Bcfe which includes approximately 6 Bcfe of
reserves from conventional properties.

Mid-Continent properties

Arkoma Basin

Our Arkoma Basin properties are located in
southeastern Oklahoma. Our production from the Arkoma Basin is
primarily from the Hartshorne coal bed methane formation. We
utilize horizontal drilling technology to develop the coal
seams. We own and operate a natural gas gathering system, which
enables us to move our natural gas production out of the basin.
In 2003, we drilled 53 gross wells, of which we operate 33,
and produced a net of approximately five Bcfe of natural gas.
Our estimated proved reserves in the Arkoma Basin at year-end
2003 were 122 Bcfe.

Other properties

We have production in other areas, including the
Green River Basin, located in southwest Wyoming and the Gulf
Coast region. These properties represent approximately two
percent of our estimated proved reserves.

Gas reserves and wells

The following table summarizes our natural gas
reserves as of December 31 (using prices at
December 31 held constant) for the year indicated:

The following table summarizes our natural gas
reserves by basin as of December 31, 2003:

No major discovery or other favorable or adverse
event has caused a significant change in estimated gas reserves
since year-end 2003. We have not filed on a recurring basis
estimates of our total proved net oil and gas reserves with any
U.S. regulatory authority or agency other than the
Department of Energy (DOE) and the SEC. The estimates
furnished to the DOE have been consistent with those furnished
to the SEC, although Exploration & Production has not
yet filed any information with respect to its estimated total
reserves at December 31, 2003, with the DOE. Certain
estimates filed with the DOE may not necessarily be directly
comparable due to special DOE reporting requirements, such as
requirements to report in some instances on a gross, net or
total operator basis, and requirements to report in terms of
smaller units. The underlying estimated reserves for the DOE did
not differ by more than five percent from the underlying
estimated reserves utilized in preparing the estimated reserves
reported to the SEC.

Approximately 98 percent of our year-end
2003 United States proved reserves estimates were either
audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. or, in
the case of reserves estimates related to properties underlying
the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust, were prepared by
Miller and Lents, LTD.



The following table summarizes our leased acreage
as of December 31, 2003:

At December 31, 2003, we owned interests in
7,923 gross producing wells (3,649 net) on our
leasehold lands.

Operating statistics

We focus on lower-risk development drilling. Our
drilling success rate was nearly 99 percent in 2003 and
98 percent in 2002. The following tables summarize domestic
drilling activity by number and type of well for the periods
indicated:

The majority of our natural gas production is
currently being sold to Power generally at prevailing market
prices. Because we currently have a low-risk drilling program in
proven basins, the main component of risk that we manage is
price risk. Exploration & Production has entered into
derivative contracts with Power that hedge approximately
80 percent of projected 2004 domestic natural gas
production. Power then enters into offsetting derivative
contracts with unrelated third parties. Approximately
86 percent of our natural gas production in 2003 was
hedged. Hedging decisions are made considering the overall
Williams commodity risk exposure and are not executed
independently by Exploration & Production, thus there
are gas purchase hedging contracts executed on behalf of other
Williams entities which taken as a net position may counteract
Exploration & Production gas sales hedging derivatives.

The following table summarizes our sales and cost
information for the year indicated:

Acquisitions

On December 30, 2003, Williams Production
Mid-Continent Company purchased various incremental ownership
interests in certain Arkoma Basin properties located in
Oklahoma. The acquisition, for which we paid cash of
$11 million, added 33 Bcfe in proved reserves and
4.6 MMcf/d of production. We operate the majority of these
properties.

Divestitures

Effective April 1, 2003, RMT sold its
interest in the Raton Basin located in south central Colorado
and its interest in the Hugoton Embayment located in southwest
Kansas, and Williams Production Company LLC sold its interest in
a small portion of its outside-operated properties in the
San Juan Basin located in northwest New Mexico and
southwest Colorado. This divestiture comprised nearly
303 Bcfe in year-end 2002 reserves



and approximately 69 million cubic feet
equivalent (MMcfe) per day in production. The Hugoton Embayment
and Raton Basin are classified as discontinued operations for
financial reporting purposes.

Effective April 1, 2003, RMT sold its
interest in the Uinta Basin in Brundage Canyon, Utah, which
consisted of nearly 53 Bcfe in year-end 2002 reserves and
13 MMcfe per day in production.

Effective April 1, 2003, RMT sold its
interest in the West Side Canal properties located in the Green
River Basin in southwest Wyoming and its interest in the
Denver-Julesberg Basin properties in northeastern Colorado,
which together represent approximately 26 Bcfe in year-end
2002 reserves and around 7.5 MMcfe per day in production.

Environmental and other regulatory
    matters

Our Exploration & Production business is
subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations
on taxation, the exploration for and development, production and
marketing of oil and gas, and environmental and safety matters.
Many laws and regulations require drilling permits and govern
the spacing of wells, rates of production, water discharge,
prevention of waste and other matters. Such laws and regulations
have increased the costs of planning, designing, drilling,
installing, operating and abandoning our oil and gas wells and
other facilities. In addition, these laws and regulations, and
any others that are passed by the jurisdictions where we have
production, could limit the total number of wells drilled or the
allowable production from successful wells which could limit our
reserves.

Our operations are subject to complex
environmental laws and regulations adopted by the various
jurisdictions in which we operate. We could incur liability to
governments or third parties for any unlawful discharge of oil,
gas or other pollutants into the air, soil, or water, including
responsibility for remedial costs. We could potentially
discharge such materials into the environment in many ways
including:

Because the requirements imposed by such laws and
regulations are frequently changed, we cannot assure you that
laws and regulations enacted in the future, including changes to
existing laws and regulations, will not adversely affect our
business. In addition, because we acquire properties that have
been operated in the past by others, we may be liable for
environmental damage caused by such former operators.

Competition

The natural gas industry is highly competitive.
We compete in the areas of property acquisitions and the
development, production and marketing of, and exploration for,
natural gas with major oil companies, other independent oil and
natural gas concerns and individual producers and operators. We
also compete with major and independent oil and gas concerns in
recruiting and retaining qualified employees.

Ownership of property

The majority of our ownership interest in
exploration and production properties are held as working
interests in oil and gas leaseholds.

Other information

In 1993, Exploration & Production
conveyed a net profits interest in certain of its properties to
the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust. Substantially all of
the production attributable to the properties conveyed to the
trust was from the Fruitland coal formation and constituted coal
seam gas. Williams subsequently sold trust units to the public
in an underwritten public offering and retained
3,568,791 trust units representing 36.8 percent of
outstanding trust units. During 2000, we sold all of our trust
units as part of a



Section 29 tax credit transaction, in which
Williams retained an option to repurchase the units. Williams
registered the units with the SEC and had been repurchasing the
units and reselling the units on the open market from time to
time. In June 2003, Williams repurchased the remaining
2,408,791 trust units covered by the repurchase option. As
of March 1, 2004, Williams has beneficial ownership in
2,166,891 trust units.

In March 2001, Williams Production
Company LLC transferred certain interests in coal seam gas
properties located in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico
and Colorado to a third party. These properties are burdened by
net profits interests held by the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty
Trust. Williams Production Company exercised its right to
repurchase the underlying properties pursuant to the original
purchase and sale agreement. This repurchase of the underlying
properties by Williams Production Company LLC was completed
in May 2003 and effective January 1, 2003.

In May 2000, Williams Production Company LLC
transferred certain interests in coal seam gas properties
located in the San Juan Basin of New Mexico to a third
party. Williams exercised its right to repurchase these certain
interests pursuant to the original purchase and sale agreement.
The repurchase of these interests by Williams Production
Company LLC was effective January 1, 2003.

International exploration and production
    interests

We also have investments in international oil and
gas interests. We own approximately a 69 percent interest
in APCO Argentina Inc., an oil and gas exploration and
production company with operations in Argentina, whose
securities are traded on the NASDAQ stock market. APCO
Argentina’s principal business is its 52.9 percent
interest in the Entre Lomas concession in southwest Argentina.
It also owns a 82.0 percent interest in the Canadon Ramirez
concession, a 50 percent interest in the Capricorn
Exploration Permit and a 1.5 percent interest in the
Acambuco concession. We also own a direct 1.5 percent
interest in Acambuco through our Northwest Argentina subsidiary.
In Venezuela, we own a 10 percent interest in the
La Concepcion area, located in Western Venezuela, near Lake
Maracaibo. If combined with our domestic proved reserves, these
interests would make up 7.3 percent of our total proved
reserves.

Midstream

Midstream overview

Midstream details

Our Midstream segment, one of the nation’s
largest natural gas gatherers and processors, has primary
service areas concentrated in the major producing basins of
San Juan, Wyoming, the Gulf Coast, Venezuela and
Canada. Our businesses — gathering, treating,
processing, fractionation, storage and
transportation — fall



within the middle of the process of taking
natural gas from the wellhead to the consumer. Natural Gas
Liquids (NGLs), ethylene and propylene are produced at our
plants. These products are used primarily for the manufacture of
plastics, home heating and refinery feedstock.

Although much of our gas services are performed
for a volumetric-based fee, a portion of our gas processing
contracts are commodity-based and include two distinct types of
commodity exposure. The first type includes “Keep
Whole” processing contracts whereby we receive the liquids
extracted and replace the lost heating value with natural gas.
Under these contracts, we are exposed to the spread between NGLs
and natural gas prices. The second type consists of
“Percent of Liquids” contracts whereby we receive a
portion of the extracted liquids with no exposure to the price
of natural gas. Under these contracts, we are only exposed to
NGL price movements.

Key variables for our business will continue to
be (1) the revenue growth associated with additional
infrastructure recently completed in late 2003 and planned for
2004 in the deepwater portion of the Gulf of Mexico,
(2) the execution of our remaining planned asset sales, and
(3) the commodity prices impacting our commodity-based
processing activities. With increased fee-based business in the
deepwater and the planned sale of our Canadian liquids
extraction plants, our exposure to commodity prices is expected
to decline in future periods.

Domestic gathering and processing

Geographically, our natural gas assets are
positioned to maximize commercial and operational synergies. For
example, most of our offshore gathering and processing assets
attach and condition natural gas supplies to the Williams’
Transco pipeline. Also, our gathering and processing facilities
in the San Juan Basin handle about 80 percent of our
Exploration & Production group’s wellhead
production in this basin. Several of our western gathering
systems serve as critical sources of supply for Williams’
Northwest Pipeline customers. We gather the largest volume of
gas in the San Juan Basin. We produce approximately
one-half of the natural gas liquids coming out of Wyoming and we
gather 40 percent of the gas produced in the western Gulf
of Mexico.

We own and/or operate domestic gas gathering and
processing assets primarily within the western states of
Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico, and the onshore and
offshore shelf and deepwater areas in and around the Gulf Coast
states of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. These
assets consist of approximately 8,500 miles of gathering
pipelines with a capacity in excess of 7.9 billion cubic
feet per day (including certain gathering lines owned by Transco
but operated by Midstream), 9 processing plants (one
partially owned) and 8 natural gas treating plants with a
combined daily inlet capacity in excess of 5.3 billion
cubic feet per day. In addition to these natural gas assets, we
own and operate two crude oil pipelines totaling over
150 miles with a capacity of more than 160,000 barrels per
day. This includes our recently completed Alpine crude oil
pipeline in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico that serves the
Kerr McGee-operated Gunnison field.

Included in the natural gas assets listed above
are the assets of Discovery Producer Services LLC and its
subsidiary Discovery Gas Transmission Services LLC
(Discovery). We own a 50 percent interest in Discovery and
operate its facilities. Discovery’s assets include a
cryogenic natural gas processing plant near Larose, Louisiana, a
natural gas liquids fractionator plant near Paradis, Louisiana
and an offshore natural gas gathering and transportation system.

Gulf Coast petrochemical and olefins

In southern Louisiana, we provide customers in
the petrochemical industry a full suite of products and
services. These operations include a 42 percent interest in
a 1.3 billion pound per year ethylene production, storage
and transportation complex in Geismar, Louisiana. Also, our Gulf
Liquids New River LLC (Gulf Liquids) business consists of
two refinery off-gas processing facilities, an olefinic
fractionator and propylene splitter and connecting pipeline
system. During 2003, we announced our intention to sell Gulf
Liquids and we continue to market for sale certain of the
petrochemical pipeline and storage assets located in Geismar,
Louisiana with the expectation that these assets will be sold in
the first half of 2004.



Venezuela

Our Venezuelan investments involve gas
compression recovery and gas gathering and processing
operations. We own controlling interests in three gas compressor
facilities. These facilities help stabilize the reservoir and
enhance the recovery of crude oil by re-injecting natural gas at
high pressures. We also own a 49.25 percent interest in two
400 MMcf/d natural gas liquids extraction plants, a 50,000
barrels per day natural gas liquids fractionation plant and
associated storage and refrigeration facilities.

Our compression facilities provide roughly
70 percent of the gas injections in eastern Venezuela.
These injections allow our sole customer, Petroleos
de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA) to freely produce
approximately 500,000 barrels of oil per day, which is roughly
50 percent of PDVSA’s eastern crude oil production.

Prior to 2003, our Venezuelan operations included
an operations contract for an oil loading and storage facility.
We operated these facilities on behalf of PDVSA, the owner of
these facilities. In December 2002, we were removed as operator
of these facilities in connection with the nationwide strike
within Venezuela. We are presently in arbitration with PDVSA
regarding the termination of this contract.

Canada

Our Canadian operations include three natural gas
straddle plants (one partially owned) in Alberta, Canada, a
liquids extraction plant located near Ft. McMurray, Alberta
and an olefin fractionation facility near Edmonton, Alberta. Our
interests in these straddle plants are capable of processing
more than 5.5 billion cubic feet of gas per day. The
facilities located at Ft. McMurray and near Edmonton,
extract olefin liquids from the off-gas produced from oil sands
and then fractionate, treat, store and terminal the propane and
propylene recovered from this process. We continue to be the
largest gas processor and ethane producer in Canada, the only
olefins fractionator in Western Canada, and the only processor
of oil sands off-gas.

During 2003, we announced two separate sales
related to our Canadian assets. We closed the sale of our West
Stoddart natural gas processing plant to Canadian Natural
Resources Limited on August 1, 2003. On September 30,
2003, we closed on the sale of our natural gas liquids
fractionation, storage and distribution system in Redwater,
Alberta to Provident Energy Trust. We continue to market for
sale our natural gas straddle plants with the expectation of
selling these assets before the end of 2004 and intend to retain
our Ft. McMurray liquids extraction plant and our olefin
fractionation, storage and distribution facility in Redwater,
Alberta.

Other

We own interests in and/or operate natural gas
liquid fractionation and storage assets. These assets include
two partially owned natural gas liquid fractionation facilities
near McPherson, Kansas and Baton Rouge, Louisiana that have
a combined capacity in excess of 160,000 barrels per day. We
also own approximately 20 million barrels of natural gas
liquid storage capacity in central Kansas.

We also own a 14.6 percent interest in Aux
Sable Liquid Products LP, which owns and operates a natural
gas liquids extraction and fractionation facility located in the
Village of Channahon, Illinois. Natural gas delivered from the
Alliance Pipeline System is processed at the plant before it is
redelivered to the Alliance shippers at downstream
interconnecting pipelines. The recovered liquids are sold in the
U.S. Midwest and Canada.

Expansion projects

Gathering and processing — Wyoming
    expansion

We have been selected by Shell
Exploration & Production Company affiliates to process
their incremental natural gas production from the Pinedale
Anticline in southwestern Wyoming. To accommodate the projected
volumes, a fourth cryogenic processing train is being added to
our existing gas plant in Opal, Wyoming. The new train has a
processing capacity of 350 MMcf/d and is capable of
extracting more than 7,000 barrels of natural gas liquids.



Willbros Mt. West, a business unit of
Willbros Group, Inc., an unaffiliated third party, funded the
new train, which will be commissioned in the first quarter of
2004. Willbros will own the new train and we will operate it
under an operating and processing agreement. This project will
boost Opal’s overall processing capacity from
750 MMcf/d to more than 1.1 billion cubic feet per
day, with the ability to recover in excess of 50,000 barrels per
day of NGL products.

As our scale increases at Opal, our per unit
operating and capital costs will go down, which should increase
the value of these operations. The fourth train also allows us
to provide the most reliable and flexible services available to
producers in the area.

Gathering and processing —
    deepwater projects

The deepwater Gulf continues to be an attractive
growth area for our Midstream business. Investments like our
Alpine pipeline and Devils Tower production facilities continue
to increase our fee-based business and our scale in the Gulf.

Our Devils Tower project, a floating production
system and associated pipelines built to initially serve
Dominion Exploration and Production’s Devils Tower
discovery in Mississippi Canyon Block 773, is scheduled to
be in service in the second quarter of 2004. The facility is
located about 180 miles southeast of New Orleans in a water
depth of 5,610 feet. This project required us to construct
and own a floating production facility, a 90-mile gas pipeline
and a 120-mile oil pipeline to handle the production from the
Devils Tower discovery. The oil will be transported to
ChevronTexaco’s Empire Terminal in Plaquemines Parish,
Louisiana. The gas will be delivered into Transco’s
pipeline, and processed at our Mobile Bay Plant to recover the
natural gas liquids. The estimated capital costs including
capitalized interest for this project is approximately
$512 million.

Our new 18-inch oil pipeline, Alpine, became
operational on December 14, 2003 and has a capacity of
transporting an estimated 84,000 barrels of oil per day. The
pipeline extends 96 miles from Garden Banks Block 668
in the central Gulf of Mexico to our shallow-water platform at
Galveston Area Block A244. From the platform, the oil is
delivered onshore through ExxonMobil’s Hoover Offshore Oil
Pipeline System under a joint tariff agreement. The initial oil
production is coming from the Gunnison field, which is located
in 3,150 feet of water and operated by Kerr-McGee
Oil & Gas Corp., a wholly owned affiliate of Kerr-McGee
Corporation.

Customers and operations

Our domestic gas gathering and processing
customers are generally natural gas producers who have proved
and/or producing natural gas fields in the areas surrounding our
infrastructure. During 2003, these operations gathered gas for
over 200 customers and processed gas for approximately 100
customers. Our top four gathering and processing customers
accounted for about one-third (1/3) of our domestic gathering
revenue and processing gross margin. Our gathering and
processing agreements are generally long-term agreements.

In addition to our gathering and processing
operations, we also market natural gas liquids and petrochemical
products to a wide range of users in the energy and
petrochemical industries. We provide these products to third
parties from the production at our domestic facilities. The
majority of domestic sales are based on supply contracts of less
than one-year in duration. Our Canadian operations sell the
ethane produced from the Canadian facilities to third party end
users and the plant operator markets the remainder of the
products. Our Canadian ethane sales contracts are typically
long-term in nature.

Our Venezuelan assets were constructed and are
currently operated for the exclusive benefit of PDVSA, the state
owned petroleum corporation of Venezuela. The significant
contracts are 20 years in duration with revenues based on a
combination of fixed capital payments, throughput volumes, and
in the case of one of the gas compression facilities, a minimum
throughput guarantee. During December 2002 and early 2003, a
countrywide strike took place within Venezuela that resulted in
significant political instability and a volatile economic
environment. The Venezuelan economic and political environment
remains fluid and volatile, but



did not significantly impact the operations and
cash flows of our facilities during 2003. However, PDVSA took
over operations of its oil terminaling facility, which actions
are the subject of arbitration between the parties. The ultimate
impact of the economic and political instability on our
Venezuelan operations will depend upon the duration of the
instability as well as our ability to enforce certain contract
provisions with PDVSA.

Financial & operating
    statistics

The following table summarizes our significant
operating statistics for Midstream:

Regulatory and environmental matters

Under the Natural Gas Act (NGA), gathering and
processing facilities and services are generally not subject to
the regulatory authority of the FERC. Onshore gathering is
reserved to the states and offshore gathering is subject to the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA).

Of the states where Midstream operates, currently
only Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas actively regulate gathering
activities. Those states regulate gathering through complaint
mechanisms under which the state commission may resolve disputes
involving an individual gathering arrangement. Although
gathering facilities located offshore are not subject to the
NGA, some controversy exists as to how the FERC should determine
whether offshore facilities function as gathering. These issues
are currently before the FERC and appellate courts. Most
gathering facilities offshore are subject to the OCSLA, which
provides in part that outer continental shelf pipelines
“must provide open and nondiscriminatory access to both
owner and non-owner shippers.”

Midstream’s business operations are subject
to various federal, state, and local environmental and safety
laws and regulations. The Discovery and other pipeline systems
are subject to FERC regulation common to interstate gas
transmission. Midstream’s liquid pipeline operations are
subject to the provisions of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline
Safety Act. Certain of our pipelines also file tariff rates
covering intrastate movements with various state commissions.
The United States Department of Transportation has prescribed
safety regulations for common carrier pipelines. The pipeline
systems are subject to various state laws and regulations
concerning safety standards, exercise of eminent domain, and
similar matters. The Kansas Department of Health and Environment
(KDHE) has adopted new regulations to govern underground storage
in Kansas, which will require additional equipment and testing
for Midstream’s storage operations in Kansas.

Our remaining Midstream Canadian assets are
regulated by the Alberta Energy & Utilities Board
(AEUB) and Alberta Environment. The regulatory system for
the Alberta oil and gas industry incorporates a large measure of
self-regulation, providing that licensed operators are held
responsible for ensuring that their operations are conducted in
accordance with all provincial regulatory requirements. For
situations in which non-compliance with the applicable
regulations is at issue, the AEUB and Alberta Environment have
implemented an enforcement process with escalating consequences.



Competition

The gathering and processing business is a
regional business with varying competitive factors in each
basin. Our gathering and processing business competes with other
midstream companies, interstate and intrastate pipelines, master
limited partnerships (MLP), producers and independent gatherers
and processors. We primarily compete with five to ten companies
across all basins in which we provide services. Our focus is to
provide our customers with reliable service at a competitive
price.

Numerous factors impact any given customer’s
choice of a gathering or processing services provider, including
rate, location, term, timeliness of well connections, pressure
obligations and the willingness of the provider to process for
either a fee or for liquids taken in-kind. Our gathering and
processing services are generally covered by long-term contracts
with applicable acreage or reserve dedications. The active
drilling programs near our relatively large positions in the
San Juan Basin, Wyoming area and Gulf Coast Region are
indicators that demand for future gathering and processing
infrastructure and services should continue.

Ownership of property

We typically own our gathering and processing
facilities. We construct and maintain gathering pipeline systems
pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses, and
consents on and across properties owned by others. Some portion
of the compression equipment used to lower field pressures to
the natural gas wells that we gather are leased. The compressor
stations and gas processing and treating facilities are located
in whole or in part on lands owned by our subsidiaries or on
sites held under leases or permits issued or approved by public
authorities.

Other

At year end, we owned approximately 32% of
Longhorn Partners Pipeline, L.P. (Longhorn) which owns a refined
petroleum products pipeline form Houston, Texas to El Paso,
Texas. During February 2004, we participated in a
recapitalization plan completed by Longhorn following which, our
subsidiaries, Longhorn Enterprises of Texas, Inc. (LETI) and
Williams Petroleum Services, LLC (WPS), together own,
directly or indirectly, approximately 94.7% of the Class B
Interests in Longhorn Pipeline Investors, LLC (Pipeline
Investors) and approximately 22.7% of the Common Interests
therein. Pipeline Investors now indirectly owns Longhorn. The
recapitalization provided the funds necessary to complete final
construction and start-up of the pipeline and operations are
expected to commence by mid-year 2004. As part of the
recapitalization, LETI sold a portion of its limited partner
interests in Longhorn for $11.4 million, and LETI and WPS
sold a portion of the debt owed to them individually by Longhorn
for approximately $58 million. In addition, in exchange for
the Common Interests described above, LETI contributed the
remaining balance of its limited partnership interests, and WPS
contributed all of its general partnership interests in the
general partner of Longhorn. LETI and WPS also exchanged the
remaining debt owed by Longhorn for the Class B Interests
described above. The Class B Interests are preferred
interests but subordinate to the new investors, preferred
interests, and the Common Interests are subordinate to both.

Additional business segment
    information

Our ongoing business segments are accounted for
as continuing operations in the accompanying financial
statements and notes to financial statements included in
Part II. Assets announced to be sold are also included in
continuing operations until such time that they qualify for
treatment as “discontinued operations” under GAAP.

Our Petroleum Services segment is now reported
within Other as a result of the Alaska refinery and related
assets being reflected as discontinued operations. Our Other
segment consists of corporate operations and certain continuing
operations previously reported with the International and
Petroleum Services segments.

Other assets sold in 2003 or subject to an
approved sale have also been reclassified in accordance with
GAAP, from their traditional business segment to
“Discontinued Operations” in the accompanying
financial statements and notes to financial statements included
in Part II.



Our corporate parent company performs certain
management, legal, financial, tax, consultative, administrative
and other services for our subsidiaries

Our principal sources of cash are from external
financings, dividends and advances from our subsidiaries,
investments, payments by subsidiaries for services rendered,
interest payments from subsidiaries on cash advances and net
proceeds from asset sales. The amount of dividends available to
us from subsidiaries largely depends upon each subsidiary’s
earnings and operating capital requirements. The terms of many
of our subsidiaries’ borrowing arrangements limit the
transfer of funds to us.

We believe that we have adequate sources and
availability of raw materials and commodities for existing and
anticipated business needs. With the deterioration of our credit
ratings, we now must provide additional margin, adequate
assurance and pre-pay for gas supplies to support our energy
commodity operations. Our pipeline systems are all regulated in
various ways resulting in the financial return on the
investments made in the systems being limited to standards
permitted by the regulatory agencies. Each of the pipeline
systems has ongoing capital requirements for efficiency and
mandatory improvements, with expansion opportunities also
necessitating periodic capital outlays.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

In addition to the environmental matters included
in the business segment discussions above, a description of
environmental claims is included in Note 16 of our Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by
reference.

EMPLOYEES

At March 1, 2004, we had approximately
4,800 full-time employees including 1,819 at the corporate
level, 250 at Power, 1,449 at Gas Pipeline, 317 at
Exploration & Production, and 965 at Midstream. None of
our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective
bargaining agreements. We expect further workforce reductions in
2004 as a result of further cost reduction efforts and asset
sales.

FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS/ RISK FACTORS AND
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR”
PROVISIONS OF

THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT
OF 1995

Certain matters discussed in this annual report,
excluding historical information, include forward-looking
statements — statements that discuss our expected
future results based on current and pending business operations.
We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe
harbor protections provided under the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

All statements, other than statements of
historical facts, included in this Form 10-K which address
activities, events or developments which we expect, believe or
anticipate will or may occur in the future are forward-looking
statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by
words such as “anticipates,” “believes,”
“could,” “continues,” “estimates,”
“expects,” “forecasts,” “might,”
“planned,” “potential,”
“projects,” “scheduled” or similar
expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among
others, such things as:



•

development drilling potential; and

•

power and gas prices and demand.

These statements are based on certain assumptions
and analysis made by us in light of our experience and our
perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected
future developments as well as other factors we believe are
appropriate in the circumstances. Although we believe these
forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions,
statements made regarding future results are subject to a number
of assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future
results to be materially different from the results stated or
implied in this document.

These risks and uncertainties include:

Events in 2002 significantly impacted the risk
environment all businesses face and raised a level of
uncertainty in the capital markets that has approached that
which lead to the general market collapse of 1929. Beliefs and
assumptions as to what constitutes appropriate levels of
capitalization and fundamental value have changed abruptly. The
collapse of Enron and the energy industry is a new reality that
has had and will likely continue to have specific impacts on all
companies, including us.

RISK FACTORS

You should carefully consider the following risk
factors in addition to the other information in this annual
report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our
business, operating results, and financial condition as well as
adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities.

Risks related to our business

Our risk measurement and hedging activities
    might not prevent losses.

Although we have risk management systems in place
that use various methodologies to quantify risk, these systems
might not always be followed or might not always work as
planned. Further, such risk measurement systems do not in
themselves manage risk, and adverse changes in energy commodity
market prices, volatility, adverse correlation of commodity
prices, the liquidity of markets, and changes in interest rates
might still adversely affect our earnings and cash flows and our
balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks
have been identified.

To lower our financial exposure related to
commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into
contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and
operations, including our long-term tolling agreements. In these
hedging activities, we have used fixed-price, forward, physical
purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and
option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on
exchanges, as well as long-term structured transactions when
feasible. Substantial declines in market liquidity, however, as
well as deterioration of our credit, and termination of existing
positions (due for example to credit concerns) have greatly
limited our ability to hedge risks identified and have caused
previously hedged positions to become unhedged. To the extent we
have unhedged positions, fluctuating commodity prices could
cause our net revenues and net income to be volatile.

Some of the hedges of our tolling contracts are
more effective than others in reducing economic risk and
creating future cash flow certainty. For example, we may resell
our rights under a tolling contract through a forward contract,
which has terms that match those of the tolling contract. This
type of forward contract would be very effective at hedging not
only the commodity price risk but also the volatility risk
inherent in the tolling contract. However, this forward contract
would not hedge the tolling contract’s counterparty credit
or



performance risk. A default by the tolling
contract counterparty could result in a future loss of economic
value and a change in future cash flows. Other economic hedges
of the tolling contract, including full requirements contracts,
forward physical commodity contracts and financial swaps and
futures, could also effectively hedge the commodity price risk
of a tolling contract. However, these types of contracts would
be less effective or ineffective in hedging the volatility risk
associated with the tolling contract because they do not possess
the same optionality characteristics as the tolling contract.
These other contracts would also be ineffective in hedging
counterparty credit or performance risk.

The impact of changes in market prices for
natural gas on the average gas prices received by us may be
reduced based on the level of our hedging strategies. These
hedging arrangements may limit our potential gains if the market
prices for natural gas were to rise substantially over the price
established by the hedge. In addition, our hedging arrangements
expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain
circumstances, including instances in which:

•

production is less than expected;

•

a change in the difference between published
    price indexes established by pipelines in which our hedged
    production is delivered and the reference price established in
    the hedging arrangements is such that we are required to make
    payments to our counterparties; or

•

the counterparties to our hedging arrangements
    fail to honor their financial commitments.

Electricity, natural gas liquids and gas
    prices are volatile and this volatility could adversely affect
    our financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability
    to maintain existing businesses.

Our revenues, operating results, profitability,
future rate of growth and the value of our power and gas
businesses depend primarily upon the prices we receive for
natural gas and other commodities. Prices also affect the amount
of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability
to borrow money or raise additional capital.

Historically, the markets for these commodities
have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be
volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices might result from
relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for these
commodities, market uncertainty and other factors that are
beyond our control, including:

These factors and the volatility of the energy
markets make it extremely difficult to predict future
electricity and gas price movements with any certainty. Further,
electricity and gas prices do not necessarily move in tandem.



We might not be able to successfully manage
    the risks associated with selling and marketing products in the
    wholesale energy markets.

Our portfolios consist of wholesale contracts to
buy and sell commodities, including contracts for electricity,
natural gas, natural gas liquids and other commodities that are
settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash throughout the
United States. If the values of these contracts change in a
direction or manner that we do not anticipate or cannot manage,
we could realize material losses from our marketing. In the
past, certain marketing and trading companies have experienced
severe financial problems due to price volatility in the energy
commodity markets. In certain instances this volatility has
caused companies to be unable to deliver energy commodities that
they had guaranteed under contract. In such event, we might
incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if any,
already paid to, or received from, counterparties. In addition,
in our businesses, we often extend credit to our counterparties.
Despite performing credit analysis prior to extending credit, we
are exposed to the risk that we might not be able to collect
amounts owed to us. If the counterparty to such a financing
transaction fails to perform and any collateral that secures our
counterparty’s obligation is inadequate, we will lose money.

If we are unable to perform under our energy
agreements, we could be required to pay damages. These damages
generally would be based on the difference between the market
price to acquire replacement energy or energy services and the
relevant contract price. Depending on price volatility in the
wholesale energy markets, such damages could be significant.

Our operating results might fluctuate on a
    seasonal and quarterly basis.

Revenues from our businesses, including gas
transmission and the sale of electric power, can have seasonal
characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for power
peaks during the hot summer months, with market prices also
peaking at that time. In other areas, demand for power peaks
during the winter. In addition, demand for gas and other fuels
peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating
results in the future might fluctuate substantially on a
seasonal basis. The pattern of this fluctuation might change
depending on the nature and location of our facilities and
pipeline systems and the terms of our power sale agreements and
gas transmission arrangements.

Our investments and projects located
    outside of the United States expose us to risks related to laws
    of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in
    currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign
    governments. These risks might delay or reduce our realization
    of value from our international projects.

We currently own and might acquire and/or dispose
of material energy-related investments and projects outside the
United States. The economic and political conditions in certain
countries where we have interests or in which we might explore
development, acquisition or investment opportunities present
risks of delays in construction and interruption of business, as
well as risks of war, expropriation, nationalization,
renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing
contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are greater
than in the United States. The uncertainty of the legal
environment in certain foreign countries in which we develop or
acquire projects or make investments could make it more
difficult to obtain non-recourse project or other financing on
suitable terms, could adversely affect the ability of certain
customers to honor their obligations with respect to such
projects or investments and could impair our ability to enforce
our rights under agreements relating to such projects or
investments.

Operations in foreign countries also can present
currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and
repatriation risk. In certain conditions under which we develop
or acquire projects, or make investments, economic and monetary
conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert
our earnings denominated in foreign currencies. In addition,
risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when
our foreign subsidiaries expend or borrow funds in one type of
currency but receive revenue in another. In such cases, an
adverse change in exchange rates can reduce our ability to meet
expenses, including debt service obligations. Foreign currency
risk can also arise when the revenues received by our foreign
subsidiaries are not in U.S. dollars. In such cases, a
strengthening of the U.S. dollar could reduce the amount of
cash and



income we receive from these foreign
subsidiaries. While we believe we have hedges and contracts in
place to mitigate our most significant foreign currency exchange
risks, our hedges might not be sufficient or we might have some
exposures that are not hedged which could result in losses or
volatility in our revenues.

Risks related to legal proceedings and
governmental investigations

We might be adversely affected by
    governmental investigations and any related legal proceedings
    related to our power business.

Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy
industry and of the capital markets has resulted in increased
regulation being either proposed or implemented. Such scrutiny
has also resulted in various inquiries, investigations and court
proceedings.

Such inquiries, investigations and court
proceedings are ongoing and continue to adversely affect our
business as well as the energy trading business as a whole. We
might see these adverse effects continue as a result of the
uncertainty of these ongoing inquiries or additional inquiries
by federal or state regulatory agencies. In addition, we cannot
predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these
inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us,
civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other regulatory
action, including legislation, which might be materially adverse
to the operation of our business and our revenues and net income
or increase our operating costs in other ways.

Risks affecting our strategy and financing
needs

Our ability to timely divest our wholesale
    power and energy trading business may be dependent on factors
    outside of our control.

In June 2002, we announced our intention to exit
the wholesale power and energy trading business and divest our
trading portfolio. Our ability to do so in a timely manner may
be subject to circumstances outside of our control, such as our
ability to attract a creditworthy buyer for the portfolio,
reduced market activity, market conditions and creditworthiness
of counterparties to the contracts in the trading portfolio.
Liquidation or divestiture of all or parts of our wholesale
power and energy trading business may require that we liquidate
contracts or assets at a value that is less than our carrying
value or the value we would expect to receive if we retained the
benefits of those contracts.

Recent developments affecting the wholesale
    power and energy trading industry sector have reduced market
    activity and liquidity and might continue to adversely affect
    our results of operations.

As a result of the 2000-2001 energy crisis in
California, the resulting collapse in energy merchant credit,
the recent volatility in natural gas prices, the Enron
Corporation bankruptcy filing, and investigations by
governmental authorities into energy trading activities and
increased litigation related to such inquiries, companies
generally in the regulated and so-called unregulated utility
businesses have been adversely affected.

These market factors have led to industry-wide
downturns that have resulted in some companies being forced to
exit from the energy trading markets, leading to a reduction in
the number of trading partners and in market liquidity and
announcements by us, other energy suppliers and gas pipeline
companies of plans to sell large numbers of assets in order to
boost liquidity and strengthen their balance sheets. Proposed
and completed sales by other energy suppliers and gas pipeline
companies could increase the supply of the type of assets we are
attempting to sell and potentially lead either to our failing to
execute such asset sales or our obtaining lower prices on
completed asset sales.

Because we no longer maintain investment
    grade credit ratings, our counterparties have required us to
    provide higher amounts of credit support which raises our cost
    of doing business.

Our transactions in each of our businesses
require greater credit assurances, both to be given from, and
received by, us to satisfy credit support requirements.
Additionally, certain market disruptions or a further



downgrade of our credit rating might further
increase our cost of borrowing or further impair our ability to
access one or any of the capital markets. Such disruptions could
include:

Despite our restructuring efforts, we may
    not attain investment grade ratings.

Credit rating agencies perform independent
analysis when assigning credit ratings. Given the significant
changes in capital markets and the energy industry over the last
few years, credit rating agencies continue to review the
criteria for attaining investment grade ratings. Our goal is to
attain investment grade ratings. However, there is no guarantee
that the credit rating agencies will assign us investment grade
ratings once we meet or exceed their criteria for investment
grade ratings.

Risks related to the regulation of our
businesses

Our businesses are subject to complex
    government regulations. The operation of our businesses might be
    adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their
    interpretation or implementation.

Existing regulations might be revised or
reinterpreted, new laws and regulations might be adopted or
become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in
laws and regulations might have a detrimental effect on our
business. Certain restructured markets have recently experienced
supply problems and price volatility. These supply problems and
volatility have been the subject of a significant amount of
press coverage, much of which has been critical of the
restructuring initiatives. In some of these markets, including
California, proposals have been made by governmental agencies
and other interested parties to re-regulate areas of these
markets which have previously been deregulated. We cannot assure
you that other proposals to re-regulate will not be made or that
legislative or other attention to the electric power
restructuring process will not cause the deregulation process to
be delayed or reversed.

On November 25, 2003, the FERC issued a
final rule, Order No. 2004, that adopted new standards of
conduct for transmission providers to follow when dealing with
their energy affiliates. Order No. 2004 may require
substantial changes to our internal leadership structure that
may have an adverse impact on our ability to effectively run our
business. Our transmission providers must comply with the new
standards of conduct and post procedures on the internet
indicating how they will do so by June 1, 2004. The precise
scope of the new rule is unclear and clarification has been
requested from FERC. That clarification may not be received
until after the June 1 deadline, and so the new procedures
we implement to meet the standards of Order No. 2004 may
not be adequate in spite of our efforts to comply with the
new rule.

Our revenues might decrease if we are
    unable to gain adequate, reliable and affordable access to
    transmission and distribution assets due to the FERC and
    regional regulation of wholesale market transactions for
    electricity and gas.

We depend on transmission and distribution
facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy
companies to deliver the electricity and natural gas we buy and
sell in the wholesale market. If transmission is disrupted, if
capacity is inadequate, or if credit requirements or rates of
such utilities or energy companies are increased, our ability to
sell and deliver products might be hindered. The FERC has issued
power transmission regulations that require wholesale electric
transmission services to be offered on an open-access,
non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are
designed to encourage competition in wholesale market
transactions for electricity, some companies have failed to
provide fair and equal access to their transmission systems or
have not provided sufficient transmission capacity to enable
other companies to transmit electric



power. We cannot predict whether and to what
extent the industry will comply with these initiatives, or
whether the regulations will fully accomplish the FERC’S
objectives.

In addition, the independent system operators who
oversee the transmission systems in regional power markets, such
as California, have in the past been authorized to impose, and
might continue to impose, price limitations and other mechanisms
to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price
limitations and other mechanisms might adversely impact the
profitability of our wholesale power marketing and trading.
Given the extreme volatility and lack of meaningful long-term
price history in many of these markets and the imposition of
price limitations by regulators, independent system operators or
other marker operators, we can offer no assurance that we will
be able to operate profitably in all wholesale power markets.

The different regional power markets in
    which we compete or will compete in the future have changing
    regulatory structures, which could affect our growth and
    performance in these regions.

Our results are likely to be affected by
differences in the market and transmission regulatory structures
in various regional power markets. Problems or delays that might
arise in the formation and operation of new regional
transmission organizations (RTOs) might restrict our ability to
sell power produced by our generating capacity to certain
markets if there is insufficient transmission capacity otherwise
available. The rules governing the various regional power
markets might also change from time to time which could affect
our costs or revenues. Because it remains unclear which
companies will be participating in the various regional power
markets, or how RTOs will develop and evolve or what regions
they will cover, we are unable to assess fully the impact that
these power markets might have on our business.

Our gas sales, transmission, and storage
    operations are subject to government regulations and rate
    proceedings that could have an adverse impact on our ability to
    recover the costs of operating our pipeline
    facilities.

Our interstate gas sales, transmission, and
storage operations conducted through our Gas Pipelines business
are subject to the FERC’s rules and regulations in
accordance with the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas
Policy Act of 1978. The FERC’s regulatory authority
extends to:

The FERC has taken certain actions to strengthen
market forces in the natural gas pipeline industry that has led
to increased competition throughout the industry. In a number of
key markets, interstate pipelines are now facing competitive
pressure from other major pipeline systems, enabling local
distribution companies and end users to choose a transmission
provider based on economic and other considerations.

Risks related to environmental
matters

We could incur material losses if we are
    held liable for the environmental condition of any of our assets
    or divested assets, which could include losses that exceed our
    current expectations.

We are generally responsible for all on-site
liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our
facilities and assets, which we have acquired or developed,
regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are
known or unknown. In addition, in connection with certain
acquisitions and sales of assets, we might obtain, or be
required to provide, indemnification against certain
environmental liabilities. If we incur a



material liability, or the other party to a
transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations to us,
we could suffer material losses. If a purchaser of one of our
divested assets incurs a liability due to the environmental
condition of the divested asset, we may have a contractual
obligation to indemnify that purchaser or otherwise retain
responsibility for the environmental condition of the divested
asset. We may also have liability for the environmental
condition of divested assets under applicable federal or state
laws and regulations. Changes to applicable laws and
regulations, or changes to their interpretation, may increase
our liability. Environmental conditions of divested assets may
not be covered by insurance. Even if environmental conditions
are covered by insurance, policy conditions may not be met.

We make assumptions and develop expectations
about possible liability related to environmental conditions
based on current laws and regulations and current
interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the
interpretation of laws or regulations, or the laws and
regulations themselves, change, our assumptions may change. Our
assumptions and expectations are also based on available
information. If more information becomes available to us, our
assumptions may change. Any of these changes may result in not
only increased risk related to one or more of our assets, but
material losses in excess of current estimates.

Environmental regulation and liability
    relating to our business will be subject to environmental
    legislation in all jurisdictions in which it operates, and any
    changes in such legislation could negatively affect our results
    of operations.

Our operations are subject to extensive
environmental regulation pursuant to a variety of federal,
provincial, state and municipal laws and regulations. Such
environmental legislation imposes, among other things,
restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the
generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment
and disposal of hazardous substances and waste and in connection
with spills, releases and emissions of various substances into
the environment. Environmental legislation also requires that
our facilities, sites and other properties associated with our
operations be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to
the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Existing
environmental regulations could also be revised or
reinterpreted, new laws and regulations could be adopted or
become applicable to us or our facilities, and future changes in
environmental laws and regulations could occur. The federal
government and several states recently have proposed increased
environmental regulation of many industrial activities,
including increased regulation of air quality, water quality and
solid waste management.

Compliance with environmental legislation will
require significant expenditures, including expenditures for
compliance with the Clean Air Act and similar legislation, for
clean up costs and damages arising out of contaminated
properties, and for failure to comply with environmental
legislation and regulations which might result in the imposition
of fines and penalties. The steps we take to bring certain of
our facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive,
and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the
operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur
losses.

Further, our regulatory rate structure and our
contracts with clients might not necessarily allow us to recover
capital costs we incur to comply with new environmental
regulations. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain
from time to time all required environmental regulatory
approvals for certain development projects. If there is a delay
in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or
if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation of our
facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional
costs. Should we fail to comply with all applicable
environmental laws, we might be subject to penalties and fines
imposed against us by regulatory authorities. Although we do not
expect that the costs of complying with current environmental
legislation will have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition or results of operations, no assurance can be made
that the costs of complying with environmental legislation in
the future will not have such an effect.



Risks relating to accounting
standards

Potential changes in accounting standards
    might cause us to revise our financial results and disclosure in
    the future, which might change the way analysts measure our
    business or financial performance.

Recently discovered accounting irregularities in
various industries have forced regulators and legislators to
take a renewed look at accounting practices, financial
disclosures, companies’ relationships with their
independent auditors and retirement plan practices. Because it
is still unclear what laws or regulations will develop, we
cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in
accounting regulations or practices in general with respect to
public companies or the energy industry or in our operations
specifically.

In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) or the SEC could enact new accounting
standards that might impact how we are required to record
revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities.

Risks relating to our industry

The long-term financial condition of our
    U.S. and Canadian natural gas transmission and midstream
    businesses are dependent on the continued availability of
    natural gas reserves.

The development of additional natural gas
reserves requires significant capital expenditures by others for
exploration and development drilling and the installation of
production, gathering, storage, transportation and other
facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered
to our pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory
limitations, or the lack of available capital for these projects
could adversely affect the development of additional reserves
and production, gathering, storage and pipeline transmission and
import and export of natural gas supplies. Additional natural
gas reserves might not be developed in commercial quantities and
in sufficient amounts to fill the capacities of our gathering
and processing pipeline facilities.

Our drilling, production, gathering,
    processing and transporting activities involve numerous risks
    that might result in accidents and other operating risks and
    costs.

Our operations are subject to all of the risks
and hazards typically associated with the exploitation,
development and exploration for, and the production and
transportation of oil and gas. These operating risks include,
but are not limited to:

In addition, there are inherent in our gas
gathering, processing and transporting properties a variety of
hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions and
mechanical problems that could cause substantial financial
losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human
life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution,
impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us. In
accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain
insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses.
The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by
insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial
position and results of operations. The location of pipelines
near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial
business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level
of damages resulting from these risks.

Accidents or other operating risks could further
result in loss of service available to our customers. Such
circumstances could adversely impact our ability to meet
contractual obligations and retain customers. For example, the
26 inch segment of Northwest Pipeline from Sumas to
Washougal, Washington was idled in 2003 after a line break
associated with stress corrosion cracking (SCC). Efforts are
underway to determine



what measures are required to restore the
capacity reduction resulting from the line break and satisfy
customer needs. SCC is caused by a specific combination of
stress and exposure to environmental factors such as soil
acidity, moisture, and electro chemical properties that occurs
in older pipelines. This type of corrosion cracking is a very
complex technical phenomenon and, while the industry is making
progress in developing methods to predict and identify SCC,
there are still many unknowns. An integrity assessment of
Northwest Pipeline’s 26 inch segment is under way.

Potential customer impact arising from the 2003
line break on Northwest Pipeline in particular may include
potential shortages in Northwest Pipeline’s ability to
satisfy customer requirements, obligations to provide
reservation charge credits to customers in times of constrained
capacity, and solicitation of existing Northwest Pipeline
customers by others for potential new pipeline projects that
would compete directly with Northwest Pipeline. The size of
reservation charge credits in particular is sensitive to actual
market requirements and difficult to predict. From a market and
rate recovery standpoint, it will be critical for Northwest
Pipeline to expedite its response to the diminished capacity
arising out of the 2003 line break. Critical to the ability to
respond will be regulatory approval of any such response plan by
the Department of Transportation — Office of Pipeline
Safety and the Washington Utilities and Transportation
Commission. Such approvals will be subject to the same
uncertainty inherent in any government approval process.

Compliance with the Pipeline Safety
    Improvement Act may result in unanticipated costs and
    consequences.

Implementation of new Pipeline Safety Improvement
Act (PSIA) regulations requires us to implement an
Integrity Management Plan (IMP) for our gas transmission
pipelines by December 2004. As part of the IMP, we must identify
High Consequence Areas (HCA) through which our pipelines
run. Although our investigations are ongoing, we believe that
certain segments of our pipelines will be determined to run
through HCAs. An HCA is defined by the rule as an area where the
potential consequence of a gas pipeline accident may be
significant or do considerable harm to people or property.
Designing and implementing the IMP and identifying HCA’s
could result in significant additional costs. There is always
the possibility that the assessments related to the IMP would
reveal an unexpected condition for which remedial action would
be required.

Estimating reserves and future net revenues
    involves uncertainties and negative revisions to reserve
    estimates, and oil and gas price declines may lead to impairment
    of oil and gas assets.

Reserve engineering is a subjective process of
estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot
be measured in an exact manner. The process relies on
interpretations of available geological, geophysical,
engineering and production data. There are numerous
uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved
reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing
of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the
control of the producer. The reserve data included in this
Form 10-K represent estimates. In addition, the estimates
of future net revenues from our proved reserves and the present
value of such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about
future production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to
be correct over time.

Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based
on economic conditions in existence during the period of
assessment. Lower oil and gas prices may have the impact of
shortening the economic lives of certain fields because it
becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable reserves on such
fields, which reduces proved property reserve estimates.

If negative revisions in the estimated quantities
of proved reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of
increasing the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization
on the affected properties, which would decrease earnings or
result in losses through higher depreciation, depletion and
amortization expense. The revisions may also be sufficient to
trigger impairment losses on certain properties which would
result in a further non-cash charge to earnings. Although
unlikely, the revisions could also affect the evaluation of
Exploration & Production’s goodwill for impairment
purposes.



Other risks

The threat of terrorist activities and the
    potential for continued military and other actions could
    adversely affect our business.

The continued threat of terrorism and the impact
of continued military and other action by the United States and
its allies might lead to increased political, economic and
financial market instability and volatility in prices for
natural gas, which could affect the market for our gas
operations. In addition, future acts of terrorism could be
directed against companies operating in the United States, and
it has been reported that terrorists might be targeting domestic
energy facilities. While we are taking steps that we believe are
appropriate to increase the security at locations where our
energy assets are located, there is no assurance that we can
completely secure our locations or to completely protect them
against a terrorist attack. These developments have subjected
our operations to increased risks and, depending on their
ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our
business. In particular, we might experience increased capital
or operating costs to implement increased security for our
energy assets.

Historic performance of our exploration and
    production business is no guarantee of future
    performance.

Performance of our exploration and production
business is affected in part by factors beyond our control, such
as:

Our success rate for drilling projects in 2003
should not be considered a predictor of future performance.
Reserves that are “proven reserves” are those
estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas
liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with
reasonable certainty are recoverable in future years form known
reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, but
should not be considered as a guarantee of results for future
drilling projects.

Our assets and operations can be affected
    by weather and other natural phenomena.

Our assets and operations, especially those
located offshore, can be adversely affected by hurricanes,
earthquakes, tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather
conditions including extreme temperatures.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC
AREAS

See Note 19 of our Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for amounts of revenues during the last
three fiscal years from external customers attributable to the
United States and all foreign countries. See Note 19 of our
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information
relating to long-lived assets during the last two fiscal years,
other than financial instruments, long-term customer
relationships of a financial institution, mortgage and other
servicing rights and deferred policy acquisition costs, located
in the United States and all foreign countries.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

For information regarding certain proceedings
pending before federal regulatory agencies, see Note 16 of
our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We are also
subject to other ordinary routine litigation incidental to our
businesses.



ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Since 1989, Transco has had studies under way to
test certain of its facilities for the presence of toxic and
hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any,
remediation may be necessary. Transco has responded to data
requests regarding such potential contamination of certain of
its sites. The costs of any such remediation will depend upon
the scope of the remediation. At December 31, 2003, Transco
had accrued liabilities totaling approximately $28 million
for these costs related to these sites.

Certain of our subsidiaries have been identified
as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at various
Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, certain
of our subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have
incurred, various other hazardous materials removal or
remediation obligations under environmental laws.

Transco previously used lubricating oils
containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and, although the
use of such oils was discontinued in the 1970s, residual PCB
contamination has been discovered in equipment and soils at
certain gas compressor station sites. Transco has worked closely
with the EPA and state regulatory authorities regarding PCB
issues, and they have a program to assess and remediate such
conditions. Transco has entered into consent orders with the EPA
and state agencies to develop screening, sampling and cleanup
programs. As of December 31, 2003, much of the work
required by such consent orders had been completed. In addition,
Transco has commenced negotiations with certain environmental
authorities and other programs concerning investigative and
remedial actions relative to potential mercury contamination at
certain gas metering sites. Actual costs incurred will depend on
the actual number of contaminated sites identified, the actual
amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup
standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities
and other factors.

Transco operates facilities in some areas of the
country currently designated as non-attainment for certain EPA
air quality standards, and it anticipates that during 2004, the
EPA may designate additional new non-attainment areas which
might impact Transco’s operations. Pursuant to existing
non-attainment area requirements and those requirements in
EPA’s proposed rules designed to mitigate the migration of
ground-level ozone (NOx) in 22 eastern states, Transco is
planning installation of air emission controls on existing
sources at certain facilities in order to reduce NOx emissions.
Transco anticipates that additional facilities may be subject to
increased controls within five years. For many of these
facilities, Transco is developing more cost effective and
innovative compressor engine control designs. The EPA is
expected to promulgate additional rules regarding hazardous air
pollutants in 2004, which may require Transco to install
additional controls. The anticipated additions to Transco’s
air emission controls are estimated to cost in the range of
$230 million to $260 million. If the EPA designates
additional new non-attainment areas in 2004 which impact
Transco’s operations, the cost of additions to property,
plant and equipment is expected to increase. Transco considers
costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and
regulations described above to be prudent costs incurred in the
ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through
its rates.

At December 31, 2003, Midstream had accrued
liabilities for environmental remediation costs related to its
natural gas gathering and processing facilities totaling
approximately $12 million.

In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of
Agrico Chemical Company, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser
for environmental cleanup costs resulting from certain
conditions at specified locations, to the extent such costs
exceed a specified amount. At December 31, 2003, we had
approximately $9 million accrued for such excess costs. The
actual costs incurred will depend on the actual amount and
extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup standards
mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other
factors.

On July 2, 2001, the EPA issued an
information request asking for information on oil releases and
discharges in any amount from our pipelines, pipeline systems
and pipeline facilities used in the movement of oil or petroleum
products, during the period July 1, 1998, through
July 2, 2001. In November 2001, we furnished our response.
This matter has not become an enforcement proceeding. On
March 11, 2004, the Department of Justice
(DOJ) invited the new owner of the pipeline to enter into
negotiations regarding alleged violations of the Clean Water Act
and to sign a tolling agreement. No penalty has been assessed by
the



EPA; however, the DOJ stated in its letter that
the maximum possible penalties were approximately
$22 million for the alleged violations. It is anticipated
that by providing additional clarification and through
negotiations with the EPA and DOJ, that any proposed penalty
will be reduced. We have indemnity obligations to the new owner
related to this matter.

In 2002, Williams Refining & Marketing,
LLC (Williams Refining) submitted to the EPA a self-disclosure
letter indicating noncompliance with the EPA’s benzene
waste “NESHAP” regulations. This unintentional
noncompliance had occurred due to a regulatory interpretation
that resulted in under-counting the total annual benzene level
at the Memphis refinery. Also in 2002, the EPA conducted an
all-media audit of the Memphis refinery. On March 4, 2003,
we sold the Memphis refinery. In late August 2003, EPA issued
its report on the multi-media inspection of this refinery. We
have some environmental obligations to the new owner under the
sale agreement. The indemnification provisions in the sale
agreement for the Memphis refinery provide that the capital
improvements are the responsibility of the purchaser and we are
responsible for fines or penalties. In 2003, the EPA informed us
that it has initiated an enforcement action based on the report.
The EPA released its audit report in the fall of 2003. The EPA
will likely assess a penalty on Williams Refining due to the
benzene waste NESHAP issue, but the amount of any such penalty
is unknown. To date, EPA has not sought any certain penalty or
injunctive relief, but we expect EPA may seek both. We expect to
negotiate with the EPA regarding the multi-media inspection and
benzene issues during the first half of 2004.

In 2002, the Memphis/ Shelby County Health
Department (MSCHD) assessed a $100,000 penalty on Williams
Refining due to a four-day period in 2001 within which Williams
Refining allegedly released excess emissions of sulfur dioxide.
We are currently reviewing technical analysis of the emissions
tests. Settlement negotiations with the MSCHD and the Tennessee
Department of Environment and Conservation are ongoing and are
likely to be successful.

In September 2003, Williams Petroleum Services,
LLC (WPL) concluded negotiations with the EPA on a Consent
Order. The Consent Order requires us to conduct a phased
investigation of identified units at the former Augusta
refinery. Costs for the phase I and II investigation
will be spread over the next four years and are estimated to be
approximately $2.0 million. WPL purchased the Augusta,
Kansas refinery, along with other assets, in 1983 from Mobil Oil
Corporation, which is now ExxonMobil Corporation. Pursuant to
the Contract of Sale, ExxonMobil retained responsibility for
certain environmental remediation at the site. The Kansas
Department of Health and Environment issued a consent order to
ExxonMobil requiring ExxonMobil to remediate the site.
ExxonMobil made little progress in complying with that order. We
filed a lawsuit against ExxonMobil on October 10, 2003 for
contractual, statutory and common law obligations to recover
damages and to require ExxonMobil to investigate and remediate
environmental conditions at the refinery site.

In early 2002, Cenex advised us of its intention
to proceed with arbitration allocating liability for
environmental remediation costs at certain former Thermogas
fertilizer sites. Most of these sites are in Iowa. In late 2002,
the parties arbitrated the dispute. Effective February 18,
2003, Williams Natural Gas Liquids, Inc. and Cenex executed a
settlement and release, which resolves all past, present, future
disputes regarding the purchase and sale agreement.

In 2002, Williams Field Services Company
(WFSC) submitted to the Oklahoma Department of
Environmental Quality (ODEQ) a self-disclosure of noncompliance
with the Dry Trail gas processing facility’s air permit.
This unintentional noncompliance had occurred due to operational
difficulties with the facility’s flare. WFSC is in
negotiations with ODEQ, and the amount of any penalty that ODEQ
may assess to WFSC is unknown.

Williams Power Company, Inc. (WPC), formerly
known as Williams Energy Marketing & Trading Company,
self-disclosed to the EPA certain issues of noncompliance with
EPA’s reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping regulations.
WPC continues to negotiate with EPA in good faith to resolve the
noncompliance issues. WPC anticipates that any settlement of
such issues will require WPC to pay a penalty which at this time
the amount is unknown.

See Note 16 to our Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for further information regarding
environmental matters including indemnification arrangements
related to such matters.



OTHER LEGAL MATTERS

In connection with agreements to resolve
take-or-pay and other contract claims and to amend gas purchase
contracts, our subsidiary Transco entered into certain
settlements with producers, which may require the
indemnification of certain claims for additional royalties,
which the producers may be required to pay as a result of such
settlements. As a result of such settlements, certain producers
have sought indemnification from Transco. One producer,
Freeport-McMoRan, Inc., filed a lawsuit against Transco on
March 30, 1995 in the 19th Judicial District Court in East
Baton Rouge, Louisiana in which it asserted damages, including
interest calculated through December 31, 2003, of
approximately $10 million. The case was tried in 2003 and
resulted in a judgment in favor of Transco which the producer
has appealed. On November 25, 2003, Transco and another
producer, Mobil Producing Texas & New Mexico, Inc.,
settled a lawsuit filed on August 30, 2000, in the 79th
District Court, Brooks County, Texas, in which the producer had
asserted damages, including interest, of approximately
$8 million. Producers have received and may receive other
demands, which could result in additional claims.
Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among other
things, the specific lease provisions between the producer and
the lessor and the terms of the settlement between the producer
and Transco.

On June 8, 2001, fourteen of our entities
were named as defendants in a nationwide class action lawsuit
which had been pending in the 26th Judicial District Court,
Stevens County, Kansas, against other defendants, generally
pipeline and gathering companies, for more than one year. The
producer plaintiffs alleged that the defendants, including the
Williams defendants, have engaged in mismeasurement techniques
that distort the heating content of natural gas, resulting in an
alleged underpayment of royalties to the class of producer
plaintiffs for which it seeks to recover damages. After the
court denied class action certification and while motions to
dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction were pending, on
July 29, 2003, the court granted the producers’ motion
to amend their petition. The fourth amended petition, which was
filed on July 29, 2003, excludes all the Williams
defendants except two Midstream subsidiaries. All defendants
intend to continue their opposition to class certification.

In 1998, the DOJ informed us that Jack Grynberg,
an individual, had filed claims in the United States District
Court for the District of Colorado under the False Claims Act
against us and certain of our current and former subsidiaries
including Central, Kern River, Northwest Pipeline, Williams Gas
Pipeline, Transco, Texas Gas, Williams Field Services and
Williams Production Company. Mr. Grynberg has also filed
claims against approximately 300 other energy companies and
alleges that the defendants violated the False Claims Act in
connection with the measurement and purchase of hydrocarbons.
The relief sought is an unspecified amount of royalties
allegedly not paid to the federal government, treble damages, a
civil penalty, attorneys’ fees, and costs. On April 9,
1999, the DOJ announced that it was declining to intervene in
any of the Grynberg qui tam cases, including the action filed
against our entities in the United States District Court for the
District of Colorado. On October 21, 1999, the Panel on
Multi-District Litigation transferred all of the Grynberg qui
tam cases, including those filed against us, to the United
States District Court for the District of Wyoming for pre-trial
purposes. Grynberg’s measurement claims remain pending
against us and the other defendants; the court previously
dismissed Grynberg’s royalty valuation claims.

Between November 2000 and May 2001, several class
actions were filed on behalf of California electric ratepayers
against California power generators and traders including our
subsidiary Power. These lawsuits concern the increase in power
prices in California during the summer of 2000 through the
winter of 2000-01. The suits claim that the defendants acted to
manipulate prices in violation of the California antitrust and
business practice statutes and other state and federal laws.
Plaintiffs are seeking injunctive relief as well as restitution,
disgorgement, appointment of a receiver, and damages, including
treble damages. These cases have been consolidated before the
San Diego County Superior Court. As part of a comprehensive
settlement with the state of California and other parties,
including various California water districts, various California
cities and counties, and the states of Oregon and Washington, we
and the plaintiffs in these suits have resolved these claims.
The settlement is final as to the state of California, and, as
to the ratepayer plaintiffs, the San Diego Superior Court
granted preliminary approval on October 24, 2003, and
scheduled a hearing for final approval for June 4, 2004.
Numerous other federal investigations regarding California power
prices are also underway that involve Power. See Note 11 of
our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Since January 29, 2002, numerous shareholder
class action suits seeking class certification and compensatory
damages have been filed in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Oklahoma. The majority of the suits
allege that we and our co-defendants, Williams Communications
and certain corporate officers and directors of both companies,
acted jointly and separately to inflate the stock price of the
two companies. Other suits seeking class certification and
compensatory damages allege similar causes of action related to
a public offering in early January 2002, known as the FELINE
PACS offering. This case was filed against us, certain of our
corporate officers, all members of our Board of Directors and
all of the offerings’ underwriters. In addition, in 2002
class action complaints seeking class certification and
compensatory damages were filed in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma against us and the
members of our Board of Directors under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act (ERISA) by participants in our 401(k)
plan based on similar allegations. On July 14, 2003, the
court dismissed us and our Board of Directors from these
consolidated ERISA class actions, but not our officers or the
members of our Benefits and Investment Committees who we might
be required to indemnify. The U.S. Department of Labor is
also independently investigating our employee benefits plans.

Williams Alaska Petroleum (WAPI) is actively
engaged in administrative litigation being conducted jointly by
the FERC and the Regulatory Commission of Alaska concerning the
Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) Quality Bank. Primary
issues being litigated include the appropriate valuation of the
naphtha, heavy distillate, vacuum gas oil and residual product
cuts within the TAPS Quality Bank as well as the appropriate
retroactive effects of the determinations. WAPI’s interest
in these proceedings is material as the matter involves claims
by crude producers and the State of Alaska for retroactive
payments plus interest of up to $180 million in excess of
amounts previously paid by WAPI or accrued at December 31,
2003. Because of the complexity of the issues involved, however,
the outcome cannot be predicted with any certainty nor can the
likely result be quantified. Certain periodic discussions have
been held and continue among some of the litigants. Because of
the number of parties involved and the diversity of positions,
no comprehensive terms have been identified that could be
considered probable to achieve final settlement among all
parties. The FERC and RCA presiding administrative law judges
are expected to render their joint and/or individual initial
decision(s) sometime during the second quarter of 2004.

SUMMARY

While no assurances may be given, we, based on
advice of counsel, do not believe that the ultimate resolution
of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after
consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery
from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will have
a materially adverse effect upon our future financial position.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders

None.

Item 4A.

Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The name, age, period of service, and title of
each of our executive officers as of March 1, 2004, are
listed below.

Alan S. Armstrong

Senior Vice President, Midstream

Age: 41

Position held since February 2002.

From 1999 to February 2002, Mr. Armstrong
    was Vice President, Gathering and Processing for Midstream. From
    1998 to 1999 he was Vice President, Commercial Development for
    Midstream.





Phillip D. Wright

Senior Vice President and Chief Restructuring
    Officer

Age: 48

Position held since October 2002.

From September 2001 to October 2002,
    Mr. Wright served as President and Chief Executive Officer
    of our subsidiary Williams Energy Services. From 1996 until
    September 2001, he was Senior Vice President, Enterprise
    Development and Planning for our energy services group.
    Mr. Wright has held various positions with us since 1989.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity
    and Related Stockholder Matters

Our common stock is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchanges under the symbol
“WMB.” At the close of business on March 1, 2004,
we had approximately 13,917 holders of record of our common
stock and approximately 164,000 beneficial owners that hold in
street name. The high and low closing sales price ranges
(New York Stock Exchange composite transactions) and
dividends declared by quarter for each of the past two years are
as follows:

Some of our subsidiaries’ borrowing
arrangements limit the transfer of funds to us. These terms have
not impeded, nor are they expected to impede, our ability to pay
dividends. However, our high yield indenture currently prohibits
us from paying quarterly cash dividends on our common stock in
excess of $0.02 per share.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

The following financial data as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002 and for the three years ended
December 31, 2003 are an integral part of, and should be
read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements
and notes thereto. All other amounts have been prepared from our
financial records. Certain amounts below have been restated or
reclassified (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in Item 8). Information concerning significant
trends in the financial condition and results of operations is
contained in Management’s Discussion & Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this report.



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Overview of 2003

In February 2003, we outlined our planned
business strategy in response to the events that significantly
impacted the energy sector and our company during late 2001 and
2002, including the collapse of Enron and the severe decline of
the telecommunications industry. The plan focused upon migrating
to an integrated natural gas business comprised of a strong, but
smaller, portfolio of natural gas businesses, reducing debt and
increasing our liquidity through asset sales, strategic levels
of financing and reductions in operating costs. The plan
provided us with a clear strategy to address near-term and
medium-term debt and liquidity issues, to de-leverage the
company with the objective of returning to investment grade
status and to develop a balance sheet capable of supporting and
ultimately growing our remaining businesses. A component of our
plan was to reduce the risk and liquidity requirements of the
Power segment while realizing the value of Power’s
portfolio.

Company restructuring

During 2003, we successfully executed the
following critical components of our restructuring plan:

Addressing liquidity

Through these efforts, we satisfied key liquidity
issues facing us in the form of scheduled debt maturities. These
were primarily the Williams Production RMT Company
(RMT) note payable (RMT Note) of approximately
$1.15 billion (including certain contractual fees and
deferred interest) due on July 25, 2003, and
$1.4 billion of senior unsecured 9.25 percent notes
due March 15, 2004. As a result of the proceeds generated
from asset sales and proceeds from the issuance of
$500 million of long-term debt, we prepaid the RMT Note in
May 2003. During the fourth quarter, we completed tender offers
that prepaid approximately $721 million of the senior
unsecured 9.25 percent notes and approximately
$230 million of other notes and debentures. With
approximately $2.3 billion available cash on hand at the
end of 2003, we have the capacity to pay the $679 million
balance of the senior unsecured 9.25 percent notes upon
their maturity.

During 2004, we expect to maintain cash/
liquidity levels of at least $1 billion in excess of our
immediate needs. While improved during 2003, we have limited
access to the capital markets and must maintain liquidity at a
level to manage our operations and meet unforeseen or
extraordinary calls on cash. Additionally, we will pursue
establishing new revolving and letter of credit facilities to
reduce cash requirements associated with our current facility.

Exiting the power business

We are pursuing a strategy of exiting the Power
business. However, market conditions have contributed to the
difficulty of, and could delay, a full, immediate exit from this
business. In 2003, we generated in excess of $600 million
from the sale, termination or liquidation of Power contracts and
assets. During the year, we continued to manage our portfolio to
reduce risk, to generate cash and to fulfill contractual
commitments. We are also pursuing our goal to resolve the
remaining legal and regulatory issues associated with the
business.



During 2003, we engaged financial advisors to
assist and advise with this effort. Because market conditions
may change, and we cannot determine the impact of this on a
buyer’s point of view, amounts ultimately received in any
portfolio sale, contract liquidation or realization may be
significantly different from the estimated economic value or
carrying values reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In
addition, our tolling agreements are not derivatives and thus
have no carrying value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet
pursuant to the application of Emerging Issues Task Force
(EITF) Issue No. 02-3 (EITF 02-3). Based on
current market conditions, certain of these agreements are
forecasted to realize significant future losses. It is possible
that we may sell contracts for less than their carrying value or
enter into agreements to terminate certain obligations, either
of which could result in significant future loss recognition or
reductions of future cash flows.

On a consolidated basis, the net book value at
December 31, 2003 of Power’s portfolio and other
long-lived assets were in excess of $800 million, while
other net assets of Power, including net working capital, were
in excess of $400 million.

Outlook for 2004

Entering 2004, our plan is focused upon the
following objectives:

•

Sustain solid core business performance,
    including increased capital allocated to Exploration &
    Production.

We expect cash flow from operations to be
    sufficient to meet our 2004 capital spending plan of $700 to
    $800 million and to generate additional cash to be
    available for debt reduction.

•

Continue reduction of debt and selective
    refinancing of certain instruments.

We expect to aggressively reduce debt in 2004. We
    have approximately $1 billion in scheduled maturities
    coming due throughout the year and anticipate using available
    cash flow, proceeds from assets sales and the release of
    collateral from credit facilities to further reduce debt levels.

•

Maintain investment discipline.

We have implemented the Economic Value
    Added®(EVA®) financial management system as a
    financial framework for use in evaluating our business decisions
    and as a major component for determining incentive compensation.
    We will invest selectively in those projects that are projected
    to add value to the company through EVA® improvement.

Key execution steps will include the completion
of planned asset sales, which are estimated to generate proceeds
of approximately $800 million in 2004, additional reduction
of SG&A costs, replacing our cash-collateralized letter of
credit and revolver facility with facilities that do not
encumber cash and continued efforts to exit the power business.
Some factors that present obstacles that could prevent us from
achieving these objectives include:

We continue to address these risks through
utilization of commodity hedging strategies, focused efforts to
resolve and/or respond to litigation claims, managing our
business with an emphasis upon generating cash and retaining and
developing those business operations serving key economic and
energy needs.



Critical accounting policies &
estimates

Our financial statements reflect the selection
and application of accounting policies which require management
to make significant estimates and assumptions. The selection of
these has been discussed with our Audit Committee. We believe
that the following are the more critical judgment areas in the
application of our accounting policies that currently affect our
financial condition and results of operations.

Revenue recognition —
    derivatives

We hold a substantial portfolio of derivative
contracts for a variety of purposes. Many of these are
designated in hedge positions; hence, changes in their fair
value are not reflected in earnings until the associated hedged
item impacts earnings. Others have not been designated as hedges
or do not qualify for hedge accounting. The net change in fair
value of these contracts represents unrealized gains and losses
and is recognized in income currently (marked-to-market). The
fair value for each of these derivative contracts is determined
based on the nature of the transaction and the market in which
transactions are executed. We also incorporate assumptions and
judgments about counterparty performance and credit
considerations in our determination of fair value. Certain
contracts are executed in exchange traded or over-the-counter
markets where quoted prices in active markets may exist.
Transactions are also executed in exchange-traded or
over-the-counter markets for which market prices may exist, but
which may be relatively inactive with limited price
transparency. Hence, the ability to determine the fair value of
the contract is more subjective than if an independent third
party quote were available. A limited number of transactions are
also executed for which quoted market prices are not available.
Determining fair value for these contracts involves assumptions
and judgments when estimating prices at which market
participants would transact if a market existed for the contract
or transaction. We estimate the fair value of these various
derivative contracts by incorporating information about
commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in
less active markets, and other market fundamental analysis. The
estimated fair value of all these derivative contracts is
continually subject to change as the underlying energy commodity
market changes and as management’s assumptions and
judgments change.

Additional discussion of the accounting for
energy contracts at fair value is included in Note 1 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Energy Trading
Activities, and Item 7A — Qualitative and
Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

Valuation of deferred tax assets and tax
    contingencies

We have deferred tax assets resulting from
certain investments and businesses that have a tax basis in
excess of the book basis and from tax carry-forwards generated
in the current and prior years. We must evaluate whether we will
ultimately realize these tax benefits and establish a valuation
allowance for those that may not be realizable. This evaluation
considers tax planning strategies, including assumptions about
the availability and character of future taxable income. At
December 31, 2003, we have $700 million of deferred
tax assets for which a $68 million valuation allowance has
been established. When assessing the need for a valuation
allowance, we considered forecasts of future company
performance, the estimated impact of potential asset
dispositions and our ability and intent to execute tax planning
strategies to utilize tax carryovers. Based on our projections,
we believe that it is probable that we can utilize our year-end
2003 federal tax carryovers prior to their expiration. See
Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding the tax carryovers. The
ultimate realized amount of deferred tax assets could be
materially different from those recorded, as influenced by
potential changes in jurisdictional income tax laws and the
circumstances surrounding the actual realization of these assets.

We frequently face challenges from domestic and
foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These
challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of
deductions and the allocation of income among various tax
jurisdictions. In evaluating the liability associated with our
various filing positions, we record a liability for probable tax
contingencies. The ultimate disposition of these contingencies
could have a material impact on net cash flows. To the extent we
were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been



established or required to pay amounts in excess
of our accrued liability, our effective tax rate in a given
financial statement period may be materially impacted.

Impairment of long-lived assets and
    investments

We evaluate our long-lived assets and investments
for impairment when we believe events or changes in
circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the
carrying value of certain long-lived assets or the decline in
carrying value of an investment is other-than-temporary. In
addition to those long-lived assets and investments for which
impairment charges were recorded (see Notes 2, 3 and 4 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), many others were
reviewed for which no impairment was required. Our computations
utilized judgments and assumptions in the following areas:

Our Alaska refining, retail and pipeline
operations are classified as “held for sale” at
December 31, 2003. They are currently under contract to be
sold as a single disposal group. This sale is expected to close
during the first quarter of 2004. These assets were written down
to fair value less cost to sell during 2003 based on the
assumption that they would be sold as one disposal group. If
events were to occur that caused us to divide this disposal
group or to separately evaluate the individual assets within the
disposal group for impairment, certain assets within that group
could require an additional impairment.

We have entered into a structured sales
transaction for our investment in a foreign telecommunications
company. In our review of this investment for potential
impairment, we assumed that the counterparty would perform under
the agreement. If the counterparty is unable to fully perform,
an impairment of up to $22 million could be necessary.

We own an equity investment in Longhorn Partners
Pipeline L.P., a petroleum products pipeline still under
development. During 2003, we recognized an impairment of a
portion of our investment based on the terms of a
recapitalization plan that closed in February 2004. We estimated
the fair value of our remaining equity investment based on
discounted future cash flows from the project. Because the
pipeline is not yet operational, this estimate involved
significant judgment, including:

A decrease of 10 percent in our estimate of
fair value of this investment would result in an additional
impairment of approximately $8 million.

We own a 14.6 percent equity interest in Aux
Sable Liquid Products LP, a natural gas liquids extraction and
fractionation facility. During 2003, we performed an impairment
review of our investment in Aux Sable as current operating
results and cash flow projections suggested that a decline in
the fair value of this investment below our carrying value could
exist. We estimated the fair value of our investment based on a
projection of discounted cash flows of Aux Sable. Based upon our
analysis we concluded that the estimated fair value of our



investment was below the carrying value with
little likelihood that the value would recover above our
carrying value over the near term. As a result, during 2003 we
recorded a $14.1 million impairment of this investment to
its estimated fair value. Our projections are highly sensitive
to changes in volumes and commodity pricing projections. An
additional 10 percent decline in the projected fair value
of this investment could result in an additional $4 million
charge against our operating results if that decline was
determined to be other than temporary.

Our Gulf Liquids New River Project LLC (Gulf
Liquids) operations are classified as “held for sale”
at December 31, 2003. These assets were written down to
fair value less costs to sell during 2003. We estimated fair
value based on probability-weighted analysis that considered
sales price negotiations, salvage value estimates, and
discounted future cash flows. This estimate involved significant
judgment, including:

•

commodity pricing;

•

probability weighting of the different
    scenarios; and

•

range of estimated sales proceeds, salvage value
    and future cash flows.

The estimated cash flows from the various
scenarios ranged approximately $15 million above and below
our estimated fair value.

We evaluated certain asset groups not yet held
for sale for impairment because of the possibility that we could
dispose of these assets pursuant to our strategy to sell
additional assets in 2004. Our current estimates of the
recoverability of these assets indicate that no impairment is
necessary. A significant assumption in the evaluation of one
asset group in this analysis is the probability associated with
selling the asset group versus continuing to hold it for use. We
currently believe we are more likely to continue to hold this
asset group than sell it; however, if the probability associated
with selling it were increased to approximately 90 percent,
these assets may not be recoverable. If our recoverability
estimates had resulted in a determination that these assets were
not recoverable, based on our current estimates of fair value,
we would have recognized an impairment loss of approximately
$40 million to $70 million in the year ended
December 31, 2003.

Our current estimate of recoverability for
certain Canadian gas processing assets indicated that they were
not recoverable due to management’s expectation that these
assets would be sold at a price less than their current carrying
value. As a result, we recognized impairment charges of
$41.7 million during 2003. We estimated fair market value
using an earnings multiple applied to projected operating
results. We validated this estimate of fair value with
discounted future cash flows ranging from approximately
$10 million above and $25 million below our estimated
fair value.

Contingent liabilities

We record liabilities for estimated loss
contingencies when we assess that a loss is probable and the
amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to
contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the period in
which new or different facts or information become known or
circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with
respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for
contingent losses are based upon our assumptions and estimates,
and advice of legal counsel or other third parties regarding the
probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or
more information becomes available, it is possible that our
assumptions and estimates in these matters will change. Changes
in our assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our
current assumptions and estimates could materially affect future
results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual
period. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.



Oil and gas producing
    activities

We use the successful efforts method of
accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Estimated
natural gas and oil reserves and/or forward market prices for
oil and gas are a significant part of our financial
calculations. Following are examples of how these estimates
affect financial results:

•

An increase (decrease) in estimated proved oil
    and gas reserves can reduce (increase) our unit of production
    depletion rate.

•

Changes in oil and gas reserves and forward
    market prices both impact projected future cash flows from our
    oil and gas properties. These projected future cash flows are
    used:

*

to estimate the fair value of oil and gas
    properties for purposes of assessing them for
    impairment; and

*

to estimate the fair value of the
    Exploration & Production reporting unit for purposes of
    assessing its goodwill for impairment.

•

Certain estimated reserves are used as collateral
    to secure financing.

The process of estimating natural gas and oil
reserves is very complex, requiring significant judgement in the
evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering
and economic data. After being estimated internally, virtually
all of our reserve estimates are either audited or prepared by
independent experts. The data may change substantially over time
as a result of numerous factors, including additional
development activity, evolving production history and a
continual reassessment of the viability of production under
changing economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to
existing reserve estimates could occur from time to time. A
reasonably likely revision of our reserve estimates is not
expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas
properties or goodwill. However, reserve estimate revisions
would impact our depreciation and depletion expense
prospectively. For example, a change of approximately
10 percent in oil and gas reserves for each basin would
change our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization
expense between approximately $15 million and
$20 million. The actual impact would depend on the specific
basins impacted.

Forward market prices include estimates of prices
for periods that extend beyond those with quoted market prices.
This forward market price information is consistent with that
generally used in evaluating drilling decisions and acquisition
plans. These market prices for future periods impact the
production economics underlying oil and gas reserve estimates.
The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile and change from
period to period thus impacting our estimates. A reasonably
likely unfavorable change in the forward price curve is not
expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas
properties or goodwill.

General

In accordance with the provisions related to
discontinued operations within Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (SFAS) No. 144, “Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the
consolidated financial statements and notes in Item 8
reflect our results of operations, financial position and cash
flows through the date of sale, as applicable, of certain
components as discontinued operations (see Note 2 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Unless indicated otherwise, the following
discussion and analysis of results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing
operations and should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in
Item 8 of this document.



Results of operations

Consolidated overview

The following table and discussion is a summary
of our consolidated results of operations for the three years
ended December 31, 2003. The results of operations by
segment are discussed in further detail following this
Consolidated Overview discussion.

(1)

+ = Favorable Change;
    - = Unfavorable Change

NM = A percentage calculation is not
meaningful due to change in signs or a zero-value denominator.

2003 vs. 2002

Our revenue increased $13.1 billion due
primarily to increased revenues at our Williams Power Company
segment (Power) and our Midstream Gas and Liquids segment
(Midstream) as a result of the January 1, 2003 adoption of
EITF 02-3, which requires that revenues and costs of sale
from non-derivative contracts and certain physically settled
derivative contracts be reported on a gross basis (see
Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion of the impact on our financial statements as a result
of



applying this consensus). Prior to the adoption
of EITF 02-3, revenues and costs of sales related to
non-derivative contracts and certain physically settled
derivative contracts were reported in revenues on a net basis.
As permitted by EITF 02-3, prior year amounts have not been
restated. Power’s external revenues increased
$11.4 billion and Midstream’s external revenues
increased $1.8 billion due primarily to the effect of
EITF 02-3. The increase in revenues also includes
$379 million due primarily to higher natural gas liquids
(NGL) revenues at our Midstream segment’s gas
processing plants as a result of moderate market price
increases, partially offset by lower NGL production volumes.

Results for 2003 include approximately
$117 million of revenue related to the correction of the
accounting treatment previously applied to certain third party
derivative contracts during 2002 and 2001. This matter was
initially disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the second quarter
of 2003. Income from continuing operations before income taxes
and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles in 2003
was $51.6 million. Absent the corrections, we would have
reported a pretax loss from continuing operations in 2003.
Approximately $83 million of this revenue relates to a
correction of net energy trading assets for certain derivative
contract terminations occurring in 2001. The remaining
$34 million relates to net gains on certain other
derivative contracts entered into in 2002 and 2001 that we now
believe should not have been deferred as a component of other
comprehensive income due to the incorrect designation of these
contracts as cash flow hedges. Our management, after
consultation with our independent auditor, concluded that the
effect of the previous accounting treatment was not material to
2003 and prior periods and the trend of earnings.

Costs and operating expenses increased
$12.9 billion due primarily to the effect of reporting
certain costs gross at Power and Midstream, as discussed above.
Costs increased $12.9 billion at Power and
$1.8 billion at Midstream due primarily to the effect of
EITF 02-3. Contributing to the increase at our Midstream
segment is $273 million attributable to rising market
prices for natural gas used to replace the heating value of NGLs
extracted at their gas processing facilities. The cost increases
at these operating units were partially offset by
$1.7 billion higher intercompany eliminations resulting
primarily from intercompany costs that were previously netted in
revenues prior to the adoption of EITF 02-3.

Selling, general and administrative expenses
decreased $156.5 million due primarily to reduced staffing
levels at Power reflective of our strategy to exit this
business. Also contributing to the decrease was the absence of
$22 million of costs related to an enhanced benefit early
retirement option offered to certain employee groups in 2002. We
expect continued declines in these costs as we continue to exit
the power business and complete our planned asset sales.

Other (income) expense — net, within
operating income, in 2003 includes a $188 million gain from
the sale of a Power contract, $96.7 million in net gains
from the sale of our Exploration & Production
segment’s interests in certain natural gas properties in
the San Juan basin, a $16.2 million gain from
Midstream’s sale of the wholesale propane business, and a
$12.2 million gain on foreign currency exchange at Power.
Partially offsetting these gains was a $45 million goodwill
impairment at Power, a $44.1 million impairment of the
Hazelton generation plant at Power, a $41.7 million
impairment of Canadian assets at Midstream, a $25.6 million
charge to write-off capitalized software development costs at
Northwest Pipeline, a $20 million charge related to a
settlement by Power with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements) and a $19.5 million accrual at Power related to
an adjustment of California rate refund and other related
accruals. Other (income) expense — net, within
operating income, in 2002 includes $244.6 million of
impairment charges, loss accruals, and write-offs within Power,
including a partial impairment of goodwill, $141.7 million
in net gains from the sale of Exploration &
Production’s interests in natural gas properties and
$115 million of impairment charges related to
Midstream’s Canadian assets.

General corporate expenses decreased
$55.8 million. During 2002, we incurred $24 million of
various restructuring costs associated with the liquidity and
business issues addressed beginning third-quarter 2002. We also
incurred $19 million higher advertising and branding costs
in 2002 (due primarily to golf events and other advertising
campaigns that were not continued in 2003). In 2004, we will
continue efforts to further reduce our corporate cost structure
following the recent and anticipated divestitures. We could also
experience



additional decreases in costs related to our
health care plan for retirees as a result of the passage of the
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003.

Interest accrued — net increased
$108.6 million, or 10 percent, due primarily to:

We expect interest expense to decrease in 2004
due to reduced averaged borrowing levels and lower average
interest rates.

In 2002, we began entering into interest rate
swaps with external counter parties primarily in support of the
energy-trading portfolio (see Note 19 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements). The change in market value
of these swaps was $122 million more favorable in 2003 than
2002, due largely to a reduction in overall swap positions
during the second half of 2002. The total notional amount of
these swaps is approximately $300 million at
December 31, 2003.

Investing income increased to $73.4 million
in 2003 compared to a $113.1 million loss in 2002. As
detailed in Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements, investing income (loss) in 2003 includes:

•

$52.1 million lower equity earnings from
    Gulfstream Natural Gas System LLC, primarily resulting from the
    absence in 2003 of a $27.4 million contractual construction
    completion fee received in 2002;

•

$33.6 million higher net interest income at
    Power as a result of certain 2003 FERC proceedings; and

•

a $43.1 million impairment related to our
    investment in Longhorn Partners Pipeline L.P.

Investing income (loss) in 2002 includes a
$268.7 million loss provision relating to the estimated
recoverability of receivables from WilTel Communications Group,
Inc. (WilTel), a former subsidiary, partially offset by equity
earnings and a $58.5 million gain on the sale of all of our
interest in a Lithuanian oil refinery, pipeline and terminal
complex.

Minority interest in income and preferred returns
of consolidated subsidiaries in 2003 is lower than 2002 due
primarily to the absence of preferred returns totaling
$25 million on the preferred interests in Castle Associates
L.P., Piceance Production Holdings L.L.C., and Williams Risk
Holdings L.L.C., which were modified and reclassified as debt in
third-quarter 2002, and Arctic Fox, L.L.C., which was modified
and reclassified as debt in April 2002. See Note 12 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other income — net, below operating
income, in 2003 includes debt tender and related costs of
$66.8 million, which were incurred in 2003 related to the
third quarter 2003 tender offers and consent solicitations (see
Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We
may pursue additional debt tender offers in 2004. In addition,
$84.7 million of foreign currency transaction gains on a
Canadian dollar denominated note receivable are included.
Partially offsetting these gains were $79.8 million of
derivative losses on a forward contract to fix the
U.S. dollar principal cash flows from this note. In 2004,
these may be less offsetting since the note receivable balance
was substantially reduced in the last half of 2003.



The provision (benefit) for income taxes was
unfavorable by $302.1 million due primarily to pre-tax
income in 2003 as compared to a pre-tax loss in 2002. The
effective income tax rate for 2003 is significantly higher than
the federal statutory rate due primarily to non-deductible
impairment of goodwill, non-deductible expenses, an accrual for
tax contingencies, and the effect of state income taxes,
somewhat offset by the tax benefit of capital losses. The
effective income tax rate for 2002 is less than the federal
statutory rate due primarily to the tax benefit of capital
losses and the effect of state income taxes, somewhat offset by
the effect of taxes on foreign operations, non-deductible
impairment of goodwill, an accrual for tax contingencies, and
income tax credit recapture that reduced the tax benefit of the
pre-tax loss.

In addition to the operating results from
activities included in discontinued operations (see Note 2
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), the 2003 loss
from discontinued operations includes pre-tax gains and losses
on sales, net of impairments, totaling $210.7 million. The
$210.7 million consists primarily of the following:

The 2002 loss from discontinued operations
includes pre-tax impairments and losses totaling
$531 million (see the 2002 vs. 2001 discussion below).

The cumulative effect of change in accounting
principles reduces net income for 2003 by $761.3 million
due to a $762.5 million charge related to the adoption of
EITF 02-3 (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements), slightly offset by $1.2 million
related to the adoption of SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations” (see
Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

In June 2003, we redeemed all of our outstanding
9.875 percent cumulative-convertible preferred shares for
approximately $289 million, plus $5.3 million for
accrued dividends (see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements). Preferred stock dividends in 2002
reflects the first-quarter 2002 impact of recording a
$69.4 million non-cash dividend associated with the
accounting for a preferred security that contained a conversion
option that was beneficial to the purchaser at the time the
security was issued.

2002 vs. 2001

Our revenue decreased approximately
$1.6 billion, or 30 percent, due primarily to lower
revenues associated with energy risk management and trading
activities at Power and the absence of $184 million of
revenue related to the 198 convenience stores sold in May 2001
within our previously reported Petroleum Services segment
(Petroleum Services). Partially offsetting these decreases was
the impact of an increase in net production volumes within
Exploration & Production partly due to the August 2001
acquisition of Barrett Resources Corporation (Barrett). As
permitted by EITF 02-3, discussed above, 2002 and 2001
revenues were not restated for the adoption of EITF 02-3 in
January 2003.

Costs and operating expenses decreased
$279.8 million, or 11 percent, due primarily to the
absence of the 198 convenience stores sold in May 2001 and lower
fuel and product shrink gas purchases related to processing
activities at Midstream. Slightly offsetting these decreases are
increased depletion, depreciation and amortization and lease
operating expenses at Exploration & Production due
primarily to the addition of the former Barrett operations.



Selling, general and administrative expenses
decreased $91.8 million due primarily to lower variable
compensation levels at Power. Selling, general and
administrative expenses for 2002 also include approximately
$22 million of early retirement costs, $9 million of
employee-related severance costs and approximately
$5 million related to early payoff of employee stock
ownership plan expenses.

Other (income) expense — net, within
operating income, in 2002 includes $244.6 million of
impairment charges and loss accruals within Power comprised of
$138.8 million of impairments and loss accruals for
commitments for certain power assets associated with terminated
power projects, $61.1 million goodwill impairments and a
$44.7 million impairment charge related to the Worthington
generation facility sold in January 2003. Included in Other
(income) expense — net, within operating income, in
2002 is a $115 million impairment charge related to
Midstream’s Canadian assets. Partially offsetting these
impairment charges and accruals are $141.7 million of net
gains on sales of natural gas production properties at
Exploration & Production in 2002. Other (income)
expense — net, within operating income, in 2001
includes a $75.3 million gain on the May 2001 sale of the
convenience stores and impairment charges of $13.8 million
and $12.1 million within Midstream and the former Petroleum
Services segment, respectively (see Note 4 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

General corporate expenses increased
$18.5 million, or 15 percent, due primarily to
approximately $24 million of various restructuring costs
associated with the liquidity and business issues addressed
beginning third-quarter 2002, $6 million of expense related
to the enhanced-benefit early retirement program offered to
certain employee groups and $6 million of expense related
to employee severance costs. Partially offsetting these
increases were lower charitable contributions and advertising
costs.

Operating income decreased $1,522.7 million,
or 75 percent, due primarily to lower net revenues
associated with energy risk management and trading activities at
Power and the impairment charges and loss accruals noted above.
Partially offsetting these decreases are the gains from the
sales of natural gas production properties and the impact of
increased net production volumes at Exploration &
Production, higher demand revenues and the effect of the
reductions in rate refund liabilities associated with rate case
settlements at Gas Pipeline, higher natural gas liquids margins
at Midstream and higher equity earnings.

Interest accrued — net increased
$477.4 million, or 73 percent, due primarily to
$154 million related to interest expense, including
amortization of fees, on the RMT note payable (see Note 11
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), the
$76 million effect of higher average interest rates, the
$222 million effect of higher average borrowing levels and
$41 million of higher debt issuance cost amortization
expense.

In 2002, we entered into interest rate swaps with
external counter parties primarily in support of the energy
trading portfolio. The swaps resulted in losses of
$124.2 million (see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements).

The 2002 investing loss decreased
$59.7 million as compared to the 2001 investing loss.
Investing loss for 2002 and 2001 consisted of the following
components:

*

These items are also included in the measure of
    segment profit (loss).



The equity earnings increase includes a
$27.4 million benefit reflecting a contractual construction
completion fee received by an equity method investment (see
Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and
$4 million of earnings in 2002 versus $20 million of
losses in 2001 from the Discovery pipeline project, partially
offset by an equity loss in 2002 of $13.8 million from our
investment in Longhorn Partners Pipeline LP. Income (loss) from
investments in 2002 includes a $58.5 million gain on the
sale of our equity interest in a Lithuanian oil refinery,
pipeline and terminal complex, which was included in the Other
segment, a gain of $8.7 million related to the sale of our
general partner interest in Northern Borders Partners, L.P., a
$12.3 million write-down of an investment in a pipeline
project which was canceled and a $10.4 million net loss on
the sale of our equity interest in a Canadian and U.S. gas
pipeline. Income (loss) from investments in 2001 includes a
$27.5 million gain on the sale of our limited partner
equity interest in Northern Border Partners, L.P. offset by a
$23.3 million loss from other investments, both of which
were determined to be other than temporary. See Note 2 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of
the losses related to WilTel. Interest income and other
decreased due to a $22 million decrease in interest income
related to margin deposits, a $4.9 million decrease in
dividend income primarily as a result of the second-quarter 2001
sale of Ferrellgas Partners L.P. senior common units and
write-downs of certain foreign investments.

Other income (expense) — net, below
operating income, decreased $2.1 million due primarily to
an $11 million gain in second-quarter 2002 at our Gas
Pipeline segment associated with the disposition of securities
received through a mutual insurance company reorganization, a
$13 million decrease in losses from the sales of
receivables to special purpose entities (see Note 15 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and the absence in
2002 of a 2001 $10 million payment to settle a claim for
coal royalty payments relating to a discontinued activity.
Partially offsetting these increases was an $8 million loss
related to early retirement of remarketable notes in
first-quarter 2002.

The provision (benefit) for income taxes was
favorable by $776.8 million due primarily to a pre-tax loss
in 2002 as compared to pre-tax income in 2001. The effective
income tax rate for 2002 is less than the federal statutory rate
due primarily to the tax benefit of capital losses and the
effect of state income taxes, somewhat offset by the effect of
taxes on foreign operations, non-deductible impairment of
goodwill, an accrual for tax contingencies, and income tax
credits recapture that reduced the tax benefit of the pre-tax
loss. The effective income tax rate for 2001 is greater than the
federal statutory rate due primarily to an accrual for tax
contingencies, the effect of state income taxes, and valuation
allowances associated with the tax benefits for investing
losses, for which no tax benefits were provided.

In addition to the operating results from
activities included in discontinued operations (see Note 2
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), the 2002 loss
from discontinued operations includes pre-tax impairments and
losses totaling $531 million. The $531 million
consists of $240.8 million of impairments related to the
Memphis refinery, $195.7 million of impairments related to
bio-energy, $146.6 million of impairments related to travel
centers, $133.5 million of impairments related to the soda
ash operations, a $91.3 million loss on sale related to the
Central natural gas pipeline system, $18.4 million of
impairments related to the Alaska refinery and a
$6.4 million loss on sale related to the Kern River natural
gas pipeline system. Partially offsetting these impairments and
losses was a pre-tax gain of $301.7 million related to the
sale of the Mid-America and Seminole pipelines. Loss from
discontinued operations in 2001 includes a $1.84 billion
pre-tax charge for loss accruals related to guarantees and
payment obligations for WilTel and $184.8 million of other
pre-tax charges for impairments and loss accruals, including a
$170 million pre-tax impairment charge related to the soda
ash mining facility.

Income (loss) applicable to common stock in 2002
reflects the impact of the $69.4 million associated with
accounting for a preferred security that contains a conversion
option that was beneficial to the purchaser at the time the
security was issued. The weighted-average number of shares in
2002 for the diluted calculation (which is the same as the basic
calculation since we reported a loss from continuing operations)
increased approximately 16 million from December 31,
2001. The increase is due primarily to the 29.6 million
shares issued in the Barrett acquisition in August 2001.



Results of operations —
segments

We are currently organized into the following
segments: Power (formerly named Energy Marketing &
Trading), Gas Pipeline, Exploration & Production,
Midstream and Other. The Petroleum Services segment is now
reported within Other as a result of the Alaska refinery and
related assets being reflected as discontinued operations. Other
primarily consists of corporate operations and certain
continuing operations previously reported within the
International and Petroleum Services segments. Our management
currently evaluates performance based on segment profit (loss)
from operations (see Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements).

Prior period amounts have been restated to
reflect these changes. The following discussions relate to the
results of operations of our segments.

Power

Overview of 2003

As described below, a strategic change in
business focus and a required change in accounting principles
significantly influenced Power’s 2003 operating results.

In June 2002, we announced our intent to exit our
Power business and reduce our financial commitment to the Power
segment. Prior to this point, Power focused on originating
short-term and long-term contracts that it considered profitable
based on its view of the market. Beginning in mid-2002, Power
now focuses on 1) terminating or selling all or portions of
the portfolio, 2) maximizing cash flow, 3) reducing
risk, and 4) managing existing contractual commitments,
many of which are long-term. We initiated efforts to sell all or
portions of Power’s power, natural gas, and crude and
refined products portfolios in mid-2002. Based on bids received
in these sales efforts, Power recognized impairments for certain
assets and capital projects in 2002. In 2003, we continued our
efforts to exit this business. In 2003, proceeds from contract
sales and terminations exceeded carrying values, resulting in
gains. The decision to exit the Power business also resulted in
decreased selling, general and administrative expense. Segment
profit was unfavorably impacted in 2003 as a result of reduced
origination of long-term energy-related transactions.

As discussed further in Note 1 of Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements, in 2003, Power adopted
EITF 02-3, which changed the classification of certain
revenues and costs in the statement of operations and the
accounting method for non-derivative energy and energy-related
contracts. Decreased power prices and increased natural gas
prices primarily caused an increase in the fair value of power
and gas derivative contracts, which is reflected as an increase
in earnings. Due to the change in accounting method discussed
further below, the related change in fair value of
non-derivative contracts was not recognized in earnings during
2003 since non-derivative contracts are no longer marked to
market. However, accrual losses on power and gas non-derivative
contracts were recognized in 2003.

Power considers key factors that influence its
financial condition and operating performance to include the
following:

Outlook for 2004

In 2004, Power anticipates further variability in
earnings due in part to the difference in accounting treatment
of derivative contracts at fair value and our underlying
non-derivative contracts on an accrual basis.



This difference in accounting treatment combined
with the volatile nature of energy commodity markets could
result in future operating gains or losses. Some of Power’s
tolling contracts have a negative fair value, which is not
reflected in the financial statements since these contracts are
not derivatives. These tolling contracts may result in future
accrual losses. Continued efforts to sell all or a portion of
the portfolio may also have a significant impact on future
earnings as proceeds may differ significantly from carrying
values. The inability of counterparties to perform under
contractual obligations due to their own credit constraints
could also affect future operations.

The following risks and challenges also impact
how Power manages its business and affect its operating results:

Year-over-year operating
    results

2003 vs. 2002

Increase in revenues and cost of
    sales

EITF 02-3 impacts how Power presents
revenues and costs from certain transactions in the statement of
operations. The table below summarizes items included in
revenues and costs before and after January 1, 2003:

Revenues increased $13.3 billion and costs
increased $12.9 billion from 2002 to 2003 primarily because
Power now reports certain purchases in costs instead of
reporting them as reduction of revenues. This change in
reporting does not affect gross margin or segment profit.
EITF 02-3 does not require restatement of prior



year amounts. As presented in the table that
follows this section, Power also now accounts for a significant
portion of its business activity using the accrual method of
accounting rather than recognizing changes in fair value through
segment profit, or mark-to-market accounting.

Increase in segment profit

EITF 02-3, which was implemented
January 1, 2003, significantly impacted the increase in
segment profit from 2002 to 2003. Before the adoption of
EITF 02-3, Power reported the fair value of all its energy
contracts, energy-related contracts and inventory on the balance
sheet. Power reported changes in the fair value of the items
from period to period in segment profit. Examples of derivative
and non-derivative contracts are as follows:

In 2003, Power continues to reflect the changes
in fair value of derivative contracts in segment profit.
However, for non-derivative contracts, Power does not recognize
revenue until commodities are delivered or services are
completed. Also, for non-derivative contracts, Power does not
recognize costs until products are received and consumed,
services are used, or inventories are sold. Power is exposed to
earnings fluctuations because of these differences in accounting
for derivative and non-derivative contracts within its
portfolio. The following example illustrates this exposure to
earnings fluctuations:

Assume there are two contracts. The first is a
    ten-year contract in which Power agrees to pay a counterparty a
    monthly fee for the right to convert natural gas to power (a
    tolling contract). Power has the right to sell the power
    produced under the tolling contract. The contract is not a
    derivative. The second is a derivative contract to sell power in
    2008 to another party for a fixed price, entered into to fix the
    sales price of the power produced in 2008 under the tolling
    contract. Therefore, the power sales contract economically
    hedges the forward power price component of the tolling
    contract. If power prices fall, the decline in fair value of the
    tolling agreement would not be reflected in 2003 segment profit
    since the contract

is not

a derivative. The increase in
    the fair value of the power sale contract, however, would be
    reflected in segment profit since it

is

a derivative.

As illustrated in the above example, many of our
derivative contracts serve as economic hedges of our
non-derivative positions. We could reduce our exposure to
earnings fluctuations by applying hedge accounting, as provided
for under SFAS No. 133. However, since we have
announced our intent to exit the business, we do not currently
meet the criteria to be eligible for hedge accounting. We
reduced our exposure to earnings fluctuations through election
of the normal purchases and sales exception available under
SFAS No. 133 for two significant long-term derivative
contracts. These two derivative contracts hedge a tolling
contract. Since the election in the second quarter of 2003, we
account for the two derivative contracts on an accrual basis.
However, we remain exposed to earnings fluctuations from changes
in fair value of certain other derivative positions.



The following table summarizes the major elements
impacting segment profit in 2003 and 2002:

Increase in gross margin

The impact of the earnings fluctuations discussed
in the previous section is reflected in our 2003 gross
margin. Gross margin increased from a margin loss of
$114.2 million in 2002 to a gross margin of
$238 million in 2003.

Accrual Earnings:

Losses on contracts and assets in 2003 accounted for on an
accrual basis partially offset increases in gross margin from
mark-to-market earnings as discussed in the next section. In
2002, we accounted for revenues and costs generated only on our
owned assets on an accrual basis. These owned assets resulted in
a $10.9 million gross margin in 2002. In 2003, we also
accounted for revenues and costs generated on our non-derivative
contracts on an accrual basis. The owned assets and
non-derivative contracts generated a $268.1 million margin
loss in 2003.

The $268.1 million margin loss primarily
consists of accrual losses of $246.6 million on
non-derivative contracts and owned assets within our power and
natural gas portfolios. As with forward power prices, the
increased power supply in the mid-continent and eastern regions
contributed to lower prices received on power sales in 2003,
primarily contributing to the accrual losses. The
$246.6 million also includes a $37 million loss from
increased power rate refunds owed to the state of California
because of FERC rulings issued and a $13.8 million loss for
other contingencies related to our power marketing activities in
the state of California.

Mark-to-Market
Earnings:

The difference in accounting
for non-derivative contracts in 2003 compared to 2002 primarily
contributed to the increase in gross margin. In 2002, we
recognized mark-to-market losses of $420 million on
derivative contracts and non-derivative contracts, both of which
we carried at fair value, or marked to market, in 2002. In 2003,
we recognized mark-to-market gains of $401.4 million on
derivative contracts only. We refer to net realized and
unrealized gains and losses on contracts carried at fair value
as mark-to-market earnings.

Derivative contracts within our power and natural
gas portfolios primarily contributed to the mark-to-market gains
in 2003, generating $412.3 million of the total
mark-to-market gains of $401.4 million. Decreased forward
power prices on net power sales contracts and increased forward
gas prices on net gas purchase contracts primarily caused the
mark-to-market gains from power and natural gas derivative
contracts. Increased power supply in the mid-continent and
eastern U.S. significantly contributed to the decrease in
forward power prices. A $126.8 million positive valuation
adjustment on a terminated derivative contract also contributed
to the 2003 mark-to-market gains on power and natural gas
derivative contracts.

Of the $420 million in mark-to-market losses
in 2002, $320 million related to the power and natural gas
portfolios. The fair value of certain tolling portfolios
decreased as the margin between forward power prices



and the estimated cost to produce the power
decreased. The decline in volatility of the power and natural
gas markets also contributed to the decrease in the fair value
of tolling contracts within certain of our tolling portfolios as
it does other option contracts. Tolling contracts possess
characteristics of options since we have the right but not the
obligation to request the plant owner to convert natural gas to
power. Valuation methods used in 2002 are discussed in
Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Power and natural gas mark-to-market losses in 2002 also
reflected a $74.8 million valuation adjustment on certain
non-derivative power sale contracts. Quotes received during
sales efforts in 2002 resulted in the valuation adjustment. The
favorable net effect of approximately $85 million resulting
from a settlement with the state of California partially offsets
the 2002 mark-to-market losses. The $85 million primarily
reflects the increase in fair value on power sales contracts
with the California Department of Water Resources, which
resulted from a restructuring of the contracts and the improved
credit standing of the counterparty.

Interest Rate
Portfolio:

Differences in the
treatment of interest rate movements in 2003 compared to 2002
also offset the increase in gross margin. The 2002 interest rate
earnings of $91 million reflect the impact of decreased
interest rates on power, natural gas and crude and refined
derivative and non-derivative contracts. As interest rates
decreased, the overall fair value of these commodity contracts
increased. The increase in the fair value of these contracts was
partially offset by the decrease in the fair value of interest
rate derivatives. Interest rate derivatives hedge the power,
natural gas and crude and refined products contracts on an
economic basis. The 2003 interest rate loss of
$12.3 million reflects the mark-to-market loss on interest
rate derivatives only.

Origination:

The
lack of contract origination in 2003 further offsets the
increase in gross margin. Consistent with our reduced financial
commitment to the Power business, we did not originate long-term
energy-related contracts in 2003. In 2002, we recognized
$85.1 million of power and natural gas revenues and
$118.8 million of petroleum products revenues by
originating new contracts.

Correction of Prior Period
Items:

Results for 2003 include
approximately $117 million of revenue related to the
correction of the accounting treatment previously applied to
certain third party derivative contracts during 2002 and 2001.
This matter was initially disclosed in our Form 10-Q for
the second quarter of 2003. See Note 1 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Decrease in selling, general and
    administrative expenses

The reduced focus on the Power business resulted
in further employee reductions in 2003. Power employed
approximately 250 employees at the end of 2003 compared to
approximately 410 at the end of 2002. This decrease in employees
was the primary factor in the $85 million, or
41 percent, decrease in selling, general, and
administrative expenses.

Increase in other income
    (expense) — net

Other income (expense) — net improved
$337.1 million. Power terminated or sold certain contracts
and other assets, resulting in losses in 2002 and gains in 2003.
In 2002, Power terminated certain power — related
capital projects, which resulted in $138.8 million of
impairments. Power also recorded a $44.7 million impairment
in 2002 from the January 2003 sale of the Worthington generation
facility. In 2003, Power sold a non-derivative energy-trading
contract resulting in a $188 million gain on sale. Power
also sold an interest in certain investments accounted for under
the cost method in 2003 for a gain of $13.8 million.

A $45 million goodwill impairment in 2003
compared to a $61.1 million goodwill impairment in 2002
also contributed to the increase in Other (income) expense-net.
See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other factors offset the increase in Other income
(expense) — net. In 2003, Power recognized a
$44.1 million impairment on a power generating facility
(see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
Power also reached a settlement with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission as discussed in Note 16 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements, resulting in a charge of
$20 million. Finally, Power



recorded accruals of $19.5 million for power
marketing activities in California during 2000 and 2001 (see
Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

2002 vs. 2001

The $1,790.8 million, or 105 percent,
decrease in revenues is due primarily to a $1,783.3 million
decrease in risk management and trading revenues. During 2002,
the impact of market movements against Power’s portfolio
and a significant reduction in origination activities adversely
affected our results. Power’s ability to manage or hedge
its portfolio against adverse market movements was limited by a
lack of market liquidity as well as our limited ability to
provide credit and liquidity support.

The decrease in risk management and trading
revenues includes the following:

The net impact of interest rate movements,
including the impact of interest derivatives, caused the
$99.8 million increase in interest rate revenues.

The $1,783.3 million decrease in risk
management and trading revenues includes a $205 million
decrease in revenues from new transactions originated and
contract amendments as compared to 2001. A decline in natural
gas revenues caused $454.9 million of the
$1,901.4 million decline in natural gas and power revenues.
Increasing prices on short natural gas positions during the
third quarter of 2002 primarily caused the decline in natural
gas revenues. The remaining $1,446.5 million decline in
natural gas and power revenues relates to lower revenues from
the power portfolio caused primarily by 1) smaller
differences in the margin between forward power prices and the
estimated cost to produce the power on certain power tolling
portfolios; 2) lower volatility compared with 2001; and
3) the net impact of portfolio valuation adjustments
associated with the decline in market liquidity and portfolio
liquidation activities.

Origination activities during the first quarter
of 2002 primarily caused the $6.3 million increase in
petroleum products revenues. The commencement of trading
activities in the European office as compared to start-up
activities in 2001 principally drove the $12 million
increase in European trading revenues. The European operations
were being wound down in 2002.

As a result of our liquidity constraints, we
initiated efforts in 2002 to sell all or portions of
Power’s portfolio and/or pursue potential joint venture or
business combination opportunities. Portions of Power’s
portfolio were recognized at their estimated fair value, which
under generally accepted accounting principles is the amount at
which they could be exchanged in a current transaction between
willing parties other than in a forced liquidation or sale. As a
result of information obtained through the portfolio sales
efforts in 2002, Power adjusted the estimated fair value of
certain portions of the portfolio to reflect viable market
information received. For those portions of the portfolio for
which no viable market information was received through sales
efforts, Power estimated fair value using other market-based
information and consistent application of valuation techniques.
Portfolio valuation adjustments recognized in 2002 as a result
of new market information obtained through sales efforts
resulted in a $74.8 million decrease in segment profit.

Revenues for 2002 also includes the favorable
fourth-quarter net effect of approximately $85 million
resulting from the settlement with the state of California, the
restructuring of associated energy contracts, and the related
improved credit situation of the counterparties during the
quarter.

Selling, general, and administrative expenses
decreased by $124.7 million, or 37 percent. Lower
variable compensation levels and staff reductions primarily
caused this cost reduction.



Other (income) expense — net in 2002
includes the following:

•

Impairments and loss accruals associated with
    commitments for certain power projects that have been terminated
    of $138.8 million;

•

Partial impairment of goodwill of
    $61.1 million, reflecting a decline in fair value resulting
    from deteriorating market conditions during 2002; and

•

Impairment charge related to the January 2003
    sale of the Worthington generation facility of
    $44.7 million.

Other (income) expense — net in 2001
included a $13.3 million charge due to a terminated
expansion project.

The $1,894.8 million, or 149 percent
decrease in Segment profit (loss) is due primarily to the
$1,783.3 million reduction of risk management and trading
revenues and the other (income) expense — net items,
partially offset by the $124.7 million reduction in
selling, general and administrative expenses, and the
$23.3 million charge from the write-downs in 2001 of
marketable equity securities and a cost based investment (see
Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Gas Pipeline

Overview of 2003

Gas Pipeline’s interstate transmission and
storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as
such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural
gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, enlargement or
abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among
other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are
established through the FERC’s rulemaking process. As a
result of this regulation, Gas Pipeline’s revenues and
operating costs are relatively stable, with fluctuations
primarily driven by the approval by the FERC of new rates, the
level of pipeline transportation capacity used and seasonal
demands. Therefore capacity is a significant factor for revenues
and ultimately segment profit.

During 2003, Gas Pipeline completed five major
expansion projects. The combined impact of the completed
projects resulted in the following:

Northwest Pipeline:

•

Created 450,000 Dth/d of new physical capacity.

•

Installed more than 120 miles of new
    pipeline looping in Washington, Idaho, and Wyoming.

Transco:

•

Increased capacity by 320,000 Dth/d.

•

Installed more than 43 miles of new pipeline.

Significant risk factors that could affect the
profitability of our Gas Pipeline segment include:

•

legal and regulatory events such as FERC rate
    authorization and/ or rate case settlements (see Note 16 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements),

•

market demand for expansion projects to increase
    revenue and segment profit, and

•

catastrophic events to our infrastructure such as
    ruptures to pipelines.

Outlook for 2004

In December 2003, we received an order from the
U.S. Department of Transportation regarding restoration of
transportation service on a segment of a natural gas pipeline in
western Washington. The pipeline experienced a line break in May
2003 and we subsequently received an order to lower pressure by
20 percent and perform an integrity study on the pipeline
segment. The pipeline experienced a second break in



the same segment in December 2003. In December,
we idled the pipeline segment until its integrity could be
assured. The decision to idle the pipeline has not had a
significant impact on our ability to meet market demand,
primarily because we have a parallel pipeline in the same
corridor. We have, thus far, been able to meet customers’
demand including peak loads during January 2004. But, during the
non-peak demands of spring and summer when gas on gas
competition can be strong, customers may have to take gas from
other than preferred sources. If we are unable to meet
customers’ demand, then we may have to reduce our billings
to them. The future costs to first restore portions of the
existing pipeline to temporary service and then to replace the
pipeline’s capacity entirely are expected to be in the
range of approximately $365 million to $430 million
over a three-year period, the majority of which will be spent in
2005 and 2006. We expect to have adequate financial resources to
comply with the order and replace the capacity, if required.

In February 2004, Gas Pipeline placed a pipeline
expansion into service increasing capacity on its Transco
natural gas system by 54,000 Dth/d. The completed projects for
Northwest Pipeline and Transco are expected to increase revenues
in 2004 by approximately $45 million. The majority of the
planned 2004 capital expenditures is expected to be spent on
maintenance of the pipelines.

Year-over-year operating
    results

During 2003, we sold Texas Gas Transmission
Corporation (Texas Gas). We received $795 million in cash
and the buyer assumed $250 million in debt. During 2002, we
sold both our Central and Kern River interstate natural gas
pipeline businesses. The following discussions exclude any gains
or losses on such sales and the results of operations related to
Texas Gas, Central, and Kern River, which are all reported
within discontinued operations.

The following discussions relate to the current
continuing businesses of our Gas Pipeline segment which includes
Transco, Northwest Pipeline and various joint venture projects.
Certain assets sold during 2002 are included in the 2002
results. These assets include Cove Point, a general partner
interest in Northern Border, and our 14.6 percent interest
in Alliance Pipeline. These assets represented $7.4 million
of revenues and $15.7 million of segment profit for the
year ended December 31, 2002.

2003 vs. 2002

The $57.2 million, or five percent, increase
in revenues is due primarily to $61 million higher demand
revenues on the Transco system resulting from new expansion
projects (MarketLink, Momentum and Sundance) and higher rates
approved under Transco’s rate proceedings that became
effective in late 2002 and $27 million on the Northwest
Pipeline system resulting from new projects (Gray’s Harbor,
Centralia, and Chehalis). Partially offsetting these increases
was the absence in 2003 of $26 million of revenue from
reductions in the rate refund liabilities and other adjustments
associated with a rate case settlement on Transco in 2002 and
$13 million lower storage demand revenues in 2003 due to
lower storage rates in connection with Transco’s rate
proceedings that became effective in late 2002.

Cost and operating expenses increased
$21 million, or four percent, due primarily to
$25 million higher depreciation expense due to additional
property, plant and equipment placed into service and
$12 million higher state sales and use, ad valorem and
franchise taxes. These increases were partially offset by
$15 million lower fuel expense on Transco, resulting
primarily from pricing differentials on the volumes of gas used
in operation. Costs and operating expenses are projected to be
approximately $20 million higher in 2004 due primarily to
non-capitalized maintenance projects.

General and administrative costs decreased
$32 million, or 20 percent, due primarily to the
absence in 2003 of $23 million of early retirement pension
costs recorded in 2002 and other employee-related benefits



costs associated with reduced employee levels as
well as the absence of a $5 million write-off in 2002 of
capitalized software development costs resulting from
cancellation of a project. General and administrative costs in
2004 are projected to be consistent with 2003 amounts.

Other (income) expense — net in 2003
includes a $25.6 million charge at Northwest Pipeline to
write-off capitalized software development costs for a service
delivery system. Subsequent to the implementation of the same
system at Transco in the second quarter of 2003 and a
determination of the unique and additional programming
requirements that would be needed to complete the system at
Northwest Pipeline, management determined that the system would
not be implemented at Northwest Pipeline. Other (income)
expense — net in 2003 also includes $7.2 million
of income at Transco due to a partial reduction of accrued
liabilities for claims associated with certain producers as a
result of recent settlements and court rulings. Other income
(expense) — net in 2002 includes a $17 million
charge associated with a FERC penalty (see Note 16 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements) and a $3.7 million
loss on the sale of the Cove Point facility.

Summarized changes in Gas Pipeline’s
    segment profit:

Segment profit, which includes equity earnings
and income (loss) from investments (included in Investing income
(loss)), increased $9.8 million, or two percent, due to the
following favorable 2003 items:

These increases to segment profit were partially
offset by the following:

The $73 million decrease to equity earnings
reflects $24 million lower equity earnings from Gulfstream,
the absence of a $27.4 million benefit in 2002 related to
the contractual construction completion fee received by an
equity affiliate and the absence of $19 million of equity
earnings following the October 2002 sale of Gas Pipeline’s
14.6 percent ownership in Alliance Pipeline. The lower
earnings for Gulfstream were primarily due to the absence in
2003 of interest capitalized on internally generated funds as
allowed by the FERC during construction. The Gulfstream pipeline
was placed into service during second-quarter 2002.

2002 vs. 2001

The $61 million, or five percent, increase
in revenues is due primarily to $67 million higher demand
revenues on the Transco system resulting from new expansion
projects and new settlement rates effective September 1,
2001 and $10 million impact of reductions in the rate
refund liabilities associated with rate case settlements on the
Transco system. Revenue also increased due to $8 million
higher transportation revenue on the Northwest Pipeline system,
$9 million from environmental mitigation credit sales and
services and $4 million higher revenues associated with
tracked costs, which are passed through to customers (offset in
general and administrative expenses). Partially offsetting these
increases were $23 million lower gas exchange imbalance
settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses),
$14 million lower storage revenues and



$7 million lower revenues associated with
the recovery of tracked costs which are passed through to
customers (offset in costs and operating expenses). The decrease
in storage revenues noted above is primarily due to
$9 million lower rates on Cove Point’s short term
storage contracts (the Cove Point facility was sold in September
2002) and a $6 million decrease at Transco due primarily to
lower storage demand.

Costs and operating expenses decreased
$30 million, or five percent, due primarily to
$23 million lower gas exchange imbalance settlements
(offset in revenues), $19 million lower operations and
maintenance expense due primarily to lower professional and
other contractual services and telecommunications expenses,
$7 million lower other tracked costs which are passed
through to customers (offset in revenues) and a $5 million
franchise tax refund for Transco. These decreases were partially
offset by the $15 million effect in 2001 of a regulatory
reserve reversal resulting from the FERC’s approval for
recovery of fuel costs incurred in prior periods by Transco, as
well as $13 million higher depreciation expense. The
$13 million higher depreciation expense reflects a
$15 million increase due to increased property, plant and
equipment placed into service (including depletion of property
held for the environmental mitigation credit sales), partially
offset by a $2 million adjustment related to the 2002 rate
case settlements resulting in lower depreciation rates applied
retroactively.

General and administrative costs increased
$17 million, or 12 percent, due primarily to
$10 million higher employee-related benefits expense,
including:

•

$8 million related to higher pension and
    retiree medical expense due to decreases in assumed return on
    plan assets, and

•

approximately $3 million related to expense
    recognized as a result of accelerated company contributions to
    an employee stock ownership plan.

Also contributing to the increase is
$11 million in costs associated with an early retirement
program, a $5 million write-off in 2002 of capitalized
software development costs resulting from cancellation of a
project, and $4 million higher tracked costs (offset
in revenues). These increases were partially offset by
$12 million lower charitable contributions in 2002.

Other income (expense) — net in 2002
includes a $17 million charge associated with a FERC
penalty (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements) and a $3.7 million loss on the sale of the Cove
Point facility. Other (income) expense — net in 2001
includes an $18 million charge resulting from the
unfavorable court decision and resulting settlement in one of
Transco’s royalty claims proceedings (an additional
$19 million is included in interest expense).

Summarized changes in Gas Pipeline’s
    segment profit

Segment profit, which includes equity earnings
and income (loss) from investments (both included in Investing
income (loss)), increased $73 million, or 15 percent,
due primarily to the following:

These increases were partially offset by the
following items:

•

the effect of a $27.5 million gain in 2001
    from the sale of our limited partnership interest in Northern
    Border Partners, L.P.,



The $42.1 million increase in equity
earnings includes a $27.4 million benefit in 2002 related
to the contractual construction completion fee received by an
equity affiliate. This equity affiliate served as the general
contractor on the Gulfstream pipeline project for Gulfstream
Natural Gas System (Gulfstream), an interstate natural gas
pipeline subject to FERC regulation and an equity affiliate. The
fee, paid by Gulfstream and associated with the completion
during the second quarter of 2002 of the construction of
Gulfstream’s pipeline, was capitalized by Gulfstream as
property, plant and equipment and is included in
Gulfstream’s rate base to be recovered in future revenues.
Additionally, the increase in equity earnings reflects an
$18 million increase from Gulfstream, $12 million of
which is related to interest capitalized on the Gulfstream
pipeline project in accordance with FERC regulations.

Exploration & Production

Overview of 2003

Our focus within Exploration &
Production is to develop, produce and explore for natural gas
reserves in the Rocky Mountain and Mid-continent regions. We are
currently one of the top producers in the Rocky Mountain region.
Our specialty is extracting natural gas from non-conventional
tight sands and coalbed methane formations. Almost all of our
natural gas production is sold to Williams’ Power segment.

We maintain a leadership presence in the
following strategic natural gas basins:

These basins are core to our future success with
a large portion of our proved reserves being undeveloped. Thus,
we plan to maintain a significant drilling program over the next
several years. In addition, we manage other oil and gas
interests, including an international oil and gas company, APCO
Argentina, Inc., in which we own an approximate 69 percent
interest.

During the first half of 2003, our strategy
focused on selling assets and reducing our development drilling
activity in order to raise or preserve cash to strengthen our
balance sheet. In the second half of the year, after we had
successfully paid down or refinanced certain debt, we resumed
development drilling to levels similar to those achieved in
2002. The major accomplishments for the Exploration &
Production segment during 2003 included the following:

•

Completed the targeted asset sales of properties
    located primarily in Kansas, Colorado, Utah and New Mexico. We
    received net proceeds of approximately $465 million
    resulting in net pre-tax gains of approximately
    $134.8 million, including $39.7 million of pre-tax
    gains reported in discontinued operations related to the
    interests in the Raton and Hugoton basins.

•

Achieved a reserves replacement rate of over
    250 percent for our core retained basins. Overall, our
    reserves replacement rate was approximately 30 percent.



•

Increased our development drilling program in the
    latter part of the year, returning to activity levels reached
    prior to 2003. Capital expenditures for 2003 were approximately
    $200 million.

•

Decreased our selling, general and administrative
    costs by $7 million.

Outlook for 2004

Our expectations for the Exploration &
Production segment in 2004 include:

•

A continuing development drilling program in our
    key basins with an increase in activity in the Piceance Basin.

•

Increasing our current production level of
    447 Mmcfe per day by 10 to 15 percent by the end of
    2004. Approximately 80 percent of our forecasted 2004
    production is hedged at prices that average $3.63 per Mcfe
    at a basin level. Approximately 48 percent of our estimated
    2005 production is hedged at prices that average above
    $4.00 per Mcfe at the basin level.

Risks that may prevent us from fully
accomplishing our objectives include drilling rig availability,
obtaining permits as planned for drilling and any potential
capital constraints.

Year-over-year operating
    results

The following discussions of the year-over-year
results primarily relate to our continuing operations. However,
the results do include those operations that were sold during
2003 or 2002 that did not qualify for discontinued operations
reporting. The operations in the Hugoton and Raton basins
qualified for discontinued operations.

2003 vs. 2002

The $80.7 million, or nine percent decrease
in revenues is due primarily to $66 million lower
production revenues due to lower production levels as the result
of property sales and reduced drilling activities and
$21 million lower other revenues primarily due to the
absence in 2003 of deferred income relating to transactions in
prior years that transferred certain economic benefits to a
third party.

The decrease in domestic production revenues
reflects $68 million associated with an eleven percent
decrease in net domestic production volumes, partially offset by
$2 million higher revenues from increased net realized
average prices for production. Net realized average prices
include the effect of hedge positions. The decrease in
production volumes primarily results from the sales of
properties in 2002 and 2003 and the impact of reduced drilling
activity. Drilling activity was lower in the January through
August period of 2003 due to our capital constraints. During the
third quarter, drilling activities on our retained properties
began to increase and by the fourth quarter of 2003 returned to
the levels more consistent with 2002 drilling levels. This
drilling level is expected to increase production volumes in the
future.

To minimize the risk and volatility associated
with the ownership of producing gas properties, we enter into
derivative forward sales contracts, which economically lock in a
price for a portion of our future production. Approximately
86 percent of domestic production in 2003 was hedged. These
hedging decisions are made considering our overall commodity
risk exposure.

Costs and expenses, including selling, general
and administrative expenses, decreased $11 million,
reflecting:

•

$17 million lower exploration expenses
    reflecting the current focus of the company on developing proved
    properties while reducing exploratory activities,



•

$10 million lower depreciation, depletion
    and amortization expense primarily as a result of lower
    production volumes,

•

$7 million lower selling general and
    administrative expense, and

•

$19 million higher operating taxes due
    primarily to higher market prices.

Other (income) expense — net in 2003
includes approximately $95.1 million in net gains on sales
of natural gas properties during 2003, which were discussed
previously. Other (income) expense — net in 2002
includes approximately $141 million in net gains on sales
of natural gas properties during 2002.

The $107.2 million decrease in segment
profit is partially due to $46 million lower net gains on
sales of assets in 2003 as compared to 2002, as discussed above.
Additionally, lower production revenues due primarily to lower
production volumes also contributed to the decrease. Segment
profit also includes $18.2 million and $11.8 million
related to international activities for 2003 and 2002,
respectively. This increase primarily reflects improved
operating results of APCO Argentina.

2002 vs. 2001

The $256.5 million, or 42 percent,
increase in revenues is primarily due to:

•

$246 million higher domestic production
    revenues,

•

$27 million in unrealized gains from
    mark-to-market financial instruments related to basis
    differentials on natural gas production, and

•

$28 million lower domestic gas management
    revenues.

The $246 million increase in domestic
production revenues includes $227 million associated with
an increase in net domestic production volumes, resulting
primarily from the acquisition in third-quarter 2001 of the
former Barrett operations. The increase in our revenues also
includes $19 million from increased net realized average
prices for production (including the effect of hedge positions).
Approximately 88 percent of domestic production in 2002 was
hedged.

Costs and operating expenses, including selling,
general and administrative expenses, increased
$112 million, due primarily to the addition of the former
Barrett operations. Increased costs include depreciation,
depletion and amortization, lease operating expenses and
selling, general and administrative expenses. These increases
were partially offset by decreased gas management purchase costs.

Other (income) expense — net in 2002
includes $120 million and $21 million in gains from
the sales of substantially all of our interests in natural gas
production properties in the Jonah field (Wyoming) and in the
Anadarko Basin, respectively.

Segment profit increased $276.8 million due
primarily to the gains from asset sales mentioned in the
preceding paragraph, increased production volumes, and higher
net realized average prices. Segment profit also includes
$11.8 million and $15.4 million related to
international activities for 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Midstream Gas & Liquids

Overview of 2003

In 2003, we continued to execute our strategy to
focus on targeted growth areas in the Four Corners, Rockies and
Gulf Coast production areas. Pursuing our strategy, we placed
into service significant pipeline infrastructure in the
deepwater offshore area of the Gulf of Mexico and added a fourth
cryogenic processing train and a billion cubic feet per day
dehydration plant to our Opal gas processing facility. A third
party funded and owns the fourth cryogenic train mentioned
above. The deepwater project contributed to segment profit in
2003 while both Opal expansions will begin contributing in 2004.
While strengthening our positions in these



growth areas, we also continued to rationalize
assets by completing sales of various non-core assets. The
following is a list of assets sold during 2003:

Outlook for 2004

The following factors could impact our business
in 2004 and beyond:

Year-over-year operating
    results

In August 2002, we completed the sale of
98 percent of Mapletree LLC and 98 percent of
E-Oaktree, LLC to Enterprise Products Partners L.P. Mapletree
owned all of Mid-America Pipeline, a 7,226-mile natural gas
liquids pipeline system. E-Oaktree owned 80 percent of the
Seminole Pipeline, a 1,281-mile natural gas liquids pipeline
system. The gains on the sale of these businesses and the
related results of operations have been reported as discontinued
operations.



Pursuant to generally accepted accounting
principles, we have classified the operations of Gulf Liquids,
West Stoddart and Redwater as discontinued operations. All prior
periods reflect this reclassification.

*

Beginning in the third quarter of 2003, our
    management discussion and analysis of operating results was
    reorganized into major asset groups to provide additional
    clarity. The discussion comparing 2002 and 2001 results was not
    completed using the same asset groupings.

2003 vs. 2002

Revenues increased $1.8 billion primarily as
a result of adopting EITF 02-3, which changed how we report
natural gas liquids trading activities. The costs of such
activities are no longer reported as reductions in revenues.
EITF 02-3 does not require restatement of prior year
amounts. In addition to this effect, our revenues increased
$379 million primarily due to higher natural gas liquids
(NGL) revenues at our gas processing plants as a result of
moderate market price increases, partially offset by lower NGL
production volumes. Additional fee revenues associated with
newly constructed deepwater assets and higher olefins sales also
contributed to the revenue increase.

Costs and operating expenses also increased
$1.8 billion primarily due to the adoption of
EITF 02-3 as discussed in the previous paragraph. In
addition to this effect, costs and expenses increased
$359 million, of which $273 million is attributable to
rising market prices for natural gas used to replace the heating
value of NGLs extracted at our gas processing facilities.
Feedstock purchases for the olefins facilities increased
$109 million due to higher NGL and gas prices as well as
higher purchase volumes.

Segment profit increased $102.8 million and
reflects impairment charges of $41.7 million in 2003 and
$115 million in 2002. Both impairment charges related to
certain Canadian assets. The remaining $29.5 million
increase is largely attributable to higher deepwater and other
Gulf Coast fee revenues partially offset by unfavorable results
in our Canadian and Gulf Olefins operations. Segment profit
benefited from increased processing margins in both 2003 and
2002 due to rising NGL prices coupled with depressed natural gas
prices in the Wyoming area. In contrast, Canadian and Gulf
Olefins production margins suffered as market prices for ethane
and propane feedstocks increased more than those for the olefins
produced at these facilities, which lowered operating results.
In addition, gains on asset and investment sales, reduced
selling, general and administrative expenses, and gathering
system net gains are offset by lower partnership earnings and
higher depreciation expense. A more detailed analysis of segment
profit of our various operations is presented below:

Domestic Gathering &
Processing:

The $79.3 million
increase in domestic gathering and processing segment profit
includes an $86.0 million increase in the Gulf Coast
Region, partially offset by a $6.7 million decline in the
West Region.

The Gulf Coast Region’s $86 million
improvement is largely attributable to $42 million of
incremental segment profit associated with new infrastructure in
the deepwater area of the Gulf of Mexico. The Canyon Station
production platform, Seahawk gas gathering pipeline, and Banjo
oil transportation system were placed into service during the
latter half of 2002 and each contributed to Midstream’s
segment profit. The remaining Gulf Coast gathering and
processing assets provided approximately $44 million in
additional net revenues,



primarily from $12 million in higher
processing margins and $23 million in higher fee-based
revenues. A portion of this increase relates to the temporary
processing agreements which allow producers’ gas to be
processed to achieve pipeline quality standards. Also, the
regulated gas gathering system recorded an additional
$10 million in higher gathering revenues attributed to
additional volumes originating from new deepwater production.

The West Region’s $6.7 million segment
profit decline reflects the absence of $7 million in
operating profit associated with the Kansas Hugoton gathering
system sold in August 2002. Although 2003 segment profit is
comparable to 2002, the West Region’s segment results were
impacted by several offsetting factors discussed below:

Venezuela:

Segment
profit for our Venezuelan assets remained virtually unchanged.
Higher compression rates in 2003 and the 2002 currency exchange
loss resulted in $11 million higher profits at the PIGAP
gas compression facility. These higher profits were partially
offset by a $8 million decrease in the El Furrial operating
margins attributed to plant downtime caused by a fire that
occurred in the first quarter of 2003. Also offsetting the
increase in PIGAP operating profit is a $4 million decline
resulting from the termination of the Jose Terminal operations
contract in December 2002. Our Venezuelan assets were
constructed and are currently operated for the exclusive benefit
of Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), the state owned
Petroleum Corporation of Venezuela. The Venezuelan economic and
political environment can be volatile, but has not significantly
impacted the operations and cash flows of our facilities.

Effective February 7, 2004, the Venezuelan
government revalued the fixed exchange rate for their local
currency from 1,600 Bolivars to the dollar to
1,920 Bolivars to the dollar. This effect of this currency
devaluation will be recorded in the first quarter of 2004 but
should not have a significant impact on our first quarter
segment profit.

Canada:

The
$42.3 million increase in segment profit for our Canadian
assets reflects the difference in impairment charges of
$41.7 million in 2003 and $115 million in 2002. The
2003 charge relates to the Empress V and Empress II
liquids extraction facilities; the 2002 charge related to the
same facilities as well as the Redwater/ Fort McMurray
olefins assets. The remaining $31 million decline is
primarily attributable to declining processing margins and
higher operating expenses. Segment profit at our Canadian gas
processing plants and olefins facility declined $26 million
primarily due to gas prices increasing at a greater rate than
NGL prices and higher operating expenses related to the
Redwater/ Fort McMurray olefins facility that became
operational in April 2002. In addition, currency transaction
losses were $5 million higher in 2003 due to the decline of
the U.S. dollar compared to the Canadian dollar.



Other:

The
$18.3 million decline in segment profit for
Midstream’s other operations is attributed to lower
domestic olefins margins and unfavorable partnership earnings,
partially offset by the gain on sale of our wholesale propane
operations.

•

Segment profit for our domestic Olefins group
    declined $14 million primarily as a result of reduced
    olefins fractionation margins as the price of ethane and propane
    feedstock increased more than the price of olefins products.
    Higher maintenance expenses also contributed to the decline in
    segment profit. Olefins production margins continue to be
    impacted by weak consumer demand for products produced by
    petrochemical facilities.

•

Our earnings from partially owned domestic assets
    accounted for using the equity method declined $18 million
    largely due to $13 million in prior period accounting
    adjustments recorded on the Discovery partnership, the 2003 sale
    of other investments that generated positive earnings in 2002
    and $14 million of impairment charges associated with the
    Aux Sable partnership investment. These unfavorable results were
    partially offset by net gains totaling approximately
    $20 million from the sale of our interests in the West
    Texas, Rio Grande, Wilprise, and Tri-states liquids pipeline
    partnerships.

•

Segment profit for our Trading, Fractionation,
    and Storage group increased $14 million primarily due to a
    $16 million gain on the fourth-quarter 2003 sale of our
    wholesale propane business consisting of certain supply
    contracts and seven propane distribution terminals. Our NGL
    trading operations activities were substantially curtailed in
    2003, resulting in $11 million lower selling, general, and
    administrative costs partially offset by $8 million in
    lower net trading revenues. In addition, NGL service fees
    declined $5 million due to the sale of several NGL
    terminals in 2002.

2002 vs. 2001

Our revenues decreased $96.0 million as a
result of:

The $19.8 million increase in domestic
gathering, processing, transportation, storage, fractionation
and liquid product sales revenues resulted from a
$34 million increase in liquid sales and a $10 million
increase in transportation revenues, partially offset by a
$17 million decrease in gathering revenues primarily due to
the third-quarter 2002 sale of the Kansas-Hugoton gathering
system, a $2 million decrease in storage revenues and a
$4 million decrease in fractionation revenues. The increase
in liquid sales reflects a $67 million increase in gulf
coast liquid sales resulting primarily from higher production at
existing processing facilities, and the September 2001
completion of a new processing facility that processes natural
gas gathered from deepwater projects off the coast of Texas.

The increase in Gulf Coast liquid sales was
partially offset by a $33 million decline in liquid sales
in the west, primarily caused by a decline in average liquid
sales prices. The $10 million increase in transportation
revenues reflects the results of a new deepwater oil and gas
transportation system which was completely operational by
mid-year 2002.

The $117 million decline in petrochemicals
and trading revenues is due largely to a September 2001 change
in the reporting of certain petrochemical and liquid product
trading transactions from a gross revenue basis to a net revenue
basis combined with lower natural gas liquid trading margins.

The $48.7 million increase in Venezuelan
revenues reflects a full year of results from a new gas
compression facility that began operations in August 2001.



The decrease in Canadian revenues primarily
results from a $29 million decrease in processing revenues
and a $24 million decrease in liquid sales from processing
activities. The decrease in processing revenue reflects lower
processing rates under cost of service agreements as a result of
lower natural gas shrink prices. The decrease in liquid sales
from processing activities reflects lower average liquid sales
prices.

Costs and operating expenses decreased
$192 million, or 15 percent, primarily reflecting a
decline in fuel and product shrink costs at the domestic and
Canadian processing facilities of $21 million and
$71 million, respectively. These decreases reflect lower
average natural gas prices in Canada and Wyoming, offset by
higher volumes and prices in the Gulf Coast. The lower average
gas prices in Wyoming during 2002 reflect a favorable
differential between gas prices in Wyoming and the Gulf as a
result of limited transportation capacity from Wyoming to other
markets. This favorable basis differential had the effect of
lower shrink costs and increasing liquid sales margins from
Wyoming processing plants and is not expected to continue once
take away transportation capacity within this region has been
expanded. Costs and operating expenses also reflect a
$92 million decline in petrochemical and trading costs
resulting from the September 2001 change in reporting certain
product trading classifications. These decreases are partially
offset by $14 million higher transportation, fractionation,
and marketing costs. Operations and maintenance expenses were
relatively unchanged on a segment basis. A $32 million
decline in costs in the west primarily, resulting from lower
maintenance spending, was offset by a corresponding increase in
the Gulf, Canada and Venezuela. The increase in these areas was
largely associated with higher maintenance costs resulting from
the new Venezuelan gas compression facility, Canadian olefins
facility and new deepwater offshore operations.

Selling, general and administrative costs were
relatively unchanged on a segment basis.

Other (income) expense-net within segment costs
and expense for 2002 includes a $115 million impairment
associated with the Canadian processing, extraction and olefin
extraction assets (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements) and a $6 million impairment
associated with the sale of the Kansas Hugoton gathering system
in the third quarter. Reflected in 2001 are $13.8 million
of impairments associated with certain south Texas non-regulated
gathering and processing assets (see Note 4 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

Segment profit increased $11 million from
2001. This increase reflects a $95 million increase in
domestic operations, a $20 million increase in Venezuelan
operations and a $104 million decrease in Canadian
operations.

Domestic segment profit reflects a
$45 million increase in liquid sales margins resulting from
the low fuel and shrink costs in the west reflecting the wide
basis differential for natural gas prices in Wyoming. Domestic
segment profit also increased $31 million due to income
from equity investments primarily related to significant
improvements in the operations of Discovery pipeline following
new supply connections that resulted in higher transportation
and liquid volumes. Domestic segment profit was also impacted by
a $16 million increase in profits from an increase in
deepwater operations.

The decrease in segment profit from Canadian
operations primarily relates to the $115 million impairment
discussed above.

Segment profit from Venezuelan operations
reflects an increase resulting from a full year of results
following the completion of a new gas compression facility in
August 2001.

Other

Overview of 2003

During 2003, we began reporting the Petroleum
Services segment within Other as a result of a significant
portion of the Petroleum Services assets being reflected as
discontinued operations. Other now includes corporate
operations, certain international activities and the remaining
continuing operations of Petroleum Services.



Outlook for 2004

During February 2004, we were a party to a
recapitalization plan completed by Longhorn Partners Pipeline,
L.P. (Longhorn). As a result of this plan, we sold a portion of
our equity investment in Longhorn for $11.4 million,
received $58 million in repayment of a portion of our
advances to Longhorn and converted the remaining advances,
including accrued interest, into preferred equity interests in
Longhorn. These preferred equity interests are subordinate to
the preferred interests held by the new investors. No gain or
loss was recognized on this transaction.

Year-over-year operating
    results

2003 vs. 2002

Other segment loss for 2003 includes a
$43.1 million impairment related to our investment in
Longhorn. The impairment resulted from our assessment that
indicated there had been an other than temporary decline in the
fair value of this investment. Longhorn equity earnings
increased $15.7 million during 2003 from a loss of
$13.8 million in 2002. The 2002 segment profit includes a
$58.5 million gain on the sale of our 27 percent
ownership interest in the Lithuanian operations partially offset
by a $12.6 million equity loss for those operations.

2002 vs. 2001

The $195.2 million, or 61 percent,
decrease in revenues is due primarily to $184 million lower
convenience store revenues after the sale in May 2001 of 198
convenience stores.

Other segment profit in 2002 includes a
$58.5 million gain from the September 2002 sale of our
27 percent ownership interest in the Lithuanian refinery,
pipeline and terminal complex and a $9.5 million decrease
in equity losses from the Lithuanian operations for the period.
We received proceeds of approximately $85 million from the
sale of this investment. In addition, we sold our
$75 million note receivable from the Lithuanian operations
at face value. Equity losses related to Longhorn increased
$13.9 million from 2001 to 2002. Included in 2001 segment
profit is a $75.3 million gain on the sale of 198
convenience stores.



Energy trading activities

As of December 31, 2002, we carried energy
and energy-related contracts on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
at fair value. We held all of these energy and energy-related
contracts for trading purposes. As of December 31, 2002, we
reported net assets of approximately $1,632 million related
to the fair value of energy risk management and trading
contracts. Of this value, approximately $1,193 million
pertained to non-derivative energy contracts, which were
reflected at fair value under EITF Issue No. 98-10. On
October 25, 2002 in Issue No. 02-3, the EITF rescinded
Issue No. 98-10. With the adoption of EITF 02-3 on
January 1, 2003, we reversed this non-derivative fair value
through a cumulative adjustment from a change in accounting
principle. These contracts are now accounted for under the
accrual method. Effective January 1, 2003, only energy
contracts meeting the definition of a derivative are reflected
at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.

Fair value of
trading derivatives

Consistent with our announcement to exit the
merchant power and generation business, in 2003 we assessed
which derivative contracts we held for trading purposes and
which we held for non-trading purposes. We consider trading
derivatives to be those held to provide price risk management
services to third-party customers. The chart below reflects the
fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes as of
December 31, 2003. We have presented the fair value of
assets and liabilities by period in which they are expected to
be realized.

As the table above illustrates, we are not
materially engaged in trading activities. However, we hold a
substantial portfolio of non-trading derivative contracts.
Non-trading derivative contracts are those that hedge or could
possibly hedge Power’s long-term structured contract
positions and the activities of our other segments on an
economic basis. Certain of these economic hedges have not been
designated as or do not qualify as SFAS No. 133
hedges. As such, changes in the fair value of these derivative
contracts are reflected in earnings. We also hold certain
derivative contracts, which do qualify as SFAS No. 133
cash flow hedges, which primarily hedge Exploration &
Production’s forecasted natural gas sales. As of
December 31, 2003, the fair value of these non-trading
derivative contracts was a net asset of $435 million.

Methods of estimating fair
    value

Most of the derivatives we hold settle in active
periods and markets in which quoted market prices are available.
Quoted market prices in active markets are readily available for
valuing forward contracts, futures contracts, swap agreements
and purchase and sales transactions in the commodity and capital
markets in which we transact. While an active market may not
exist for the entire period, quoted prices can generally be
obtained for the following:

These prices reflect the economic and regulatory
conditions that currently exist in the marketplace and are
subject to change in the near term due to changes in market
conditions. The availability of quoted market prices in active
markets varies between periods and commodities based upon
changes in market conditions.



The ability to obtain quoted market prices also
varies greatly from region to region. The time periods noted
above are an estimation of aggregate liquidity. We use prices of
current transactions to further validate price estimates.
However, the decline in overall market liquidity since 2002 has
limited our ability to validate prices.

We estimate energy commodity prices in illiquid
periods by incorporating information about commodity prices in
actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets,
and other market fundamental analysis.

Due to the adoption of EITF 02-3, modeling
and other valuation techniques are not used significantly in
determining the fair value of our derivatives. Such techniques
were primarily used in previous years for valuing non-derivative
contracts, which are no longer reported at fair value, such as
transportation, storage, full requirements, load serving,
transmission and power tolling contracts (see Note 1 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Counterparty credit
    considerations

We include an assessment of the risk of
counterparty non-performance in our estimate of fair value for
all contracts. Such assessment considers 1) the credit
rating of each counterparty as represented by public rating
agencies such as Standard & Poor’s and
Moody’s Investors Service, 2) the inherent default
probabilities within these ratings, 3) the regulatory
environment that the contract is subject to and 4) the
terms of each individual contract.

Risks surrounding counterparty performance and
credit could ultimately impact the amount and timing of expected
cash flows. We continually assess this risk. We have credit
protection within various agreements to call on additional
collateral support if necessary. At December 31, 2003, we
held collateral support of $342 million.

We also enter into netting agreements to mitigate
counterparty performance and credit risk. In 2002 and 2003, we
closed out various trading positions. During 2003, we did not
incur any significant losses due to recent counterparty
bankruptcy filings.

The gross credit exposure from our derivative
contracts as of December 31, 2003 is summarized below.



We assess our credit exposure on a net basis. The
net credit exposure from our derivatives as of December 31,
2003 is summarized below.

Financial condition and liquidity

Liquidity

Overview of 2003

Entering 2003, we faced significant liquidity
challenges with sizeable maturing debt obligations and limited
financial flexibility due in part to covenants arising from 2002
short-term financings. Our plan to address these issues,
announced in February 2003, required immediate execution of
significant levels of asset sales to meet maturing obligations
in excess of $1 billion by mid-year.

Through June 30, we were successful in
generating approximately $2.4 billion of net proceeds from
the sale of assets. With sufficient liquidity in hand, we
prepaid the RMT Note totaling $1.15 billion. During the
same period, we enhanced overall liquidity through the following
actions:



•

through our Northwest Pipeline subsidiary, issued
    $175 million of 8.125 percent senior unsecured notes
    due 2010, which enabled Northwest Pipeline to fund capital
    expenditures without borrowing cash from our parent company.

During the fourth quarter of 2003, we continued
the execution of our plan to reduce debt with available funds by
tendering for and retiring debt of nearly $1 billion. Of
this total, $721 million was comprised of the 9.25 percent
notes due March 2004, leaving $679 million outstanding.

During 2003, we generated net cash proceeds from
asset sales of approximately $3.0 billion. We expect to
realize approximately $800 million from additional asset
sales in 2004. The remaining expected asset sales include our
Alaska refinery and related operations, which are currently
under contract for sale, and certain Midstream assets. Our 2003
cash flow from operations of $770 million funded a large
portion of our capital spending requirements for the year. At
December 31, 2003, we have available unrestricted cash on
hand of approximately $2.3 billion.

Sources of liquidity

Our liquidity is derived from both internal and
external sources. Certain of those sources are available to us
(at the parent level) and others are available to certain of our
subsidiaries.

At December 31, 2003, we have the following
sources of liquidity:

•

Cash-equivalent investments at the corporate
    level of $2.2 billion as compared to $1.3 billion at
    December 31, 2002.

•

Cash and cash-equivalent investments of various
    international and domestic entities of $91 million, as
    compared to $352 million at December 31, 2002.

At December 31, 2003, we have capacity of
$447 million available under our current revolving and
letter of credit facility. In June 2003, we entered into this
revolving and letter of credit facility which is used primarily
for issuing letters of credit and must be collateralized at
105 percent of the level utilized (see Note 11 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). As discussed below
in the Outlook for 2004 section, we intend to replace this
facility in 2004 with facilities that do not require cash
collateralization. In contrast, at December 31, 2002 we had
a combined $466 million available under the previous
revolver and letter of credit facilities.

In addition to these sources of liquidity
described above, we have an effective shelf registration
statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that
authorizes us to issue an additional $2.2 billion of a
variety of debt and equity securities. However, the ability to
utilize this shelf registration for debt securities is
restricted by certain covenants associated with our
$800 million 8.625 percent senior unsecured notes (see
Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

In addition, our wholly owned subsidiaries
Northwest Pipeline and Transco have outstanding registration
statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As
of December 31, 2003, approximately $350 million of
shelf availability remains under these registration statements.
However, the ability to utilize these registration statements is
restricted by certain covenants associated with our
$800 million 8.625 percent senior unsecured notes.
Interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions will
affect amounts raised, if any, in the capital markets. On
March 4, 2003, Northwest Pipeline completed an offering of
$175 million of 8.125 percent senior notes due 2010.
These notes contain covenants similar to those of the
$800 million 8.625 percent senior unsecured notes
discussed above. The $350 million of shelf availability
mentioned above was not utilized for this offering.

During 2003, we supplied liquidity needs with:

•

Cash generated from the sale of
    assets — In 2003, we generated approximately
    $3.0 billion in net proceeds from asset sales and expect to
    realize approximately $800 million from additional asset
    sales in 2004.



•

Cash generated from operations — In
    2003, we generated $569.8 million in cash flow from
    continuing operations and expect to generate $1.0 to
    $1.3 billion in 2004.

We estimate approximately $700 million to
$800 million for 2004 capital and investment expenditures.
We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt
payments and working-capital requirements through (1) cash
and cash equivalent investments on hand, (2) cash generated
from operations, and (3) cash generated from the sale of
assets.

Outlook for 2004

In 2004, we expect to make significant additional
progress towards debt reduction while maintaining appropriate
levels of cash and other forms of liquidity. To manage our
operations and meet unforeseen or extraordinary calls on cash,
we expect to maintain cash and/or liquidity levels of at least
$1 billion. While access to the capital markets continues
to improve, one of our indentures has a covenant that restricts
our ability to issue new debt, with minimal exceptions, until a
certain fixed charge coverage ratio is achieved. We expect to
satisfy this requirement by the end of 2005. The covenant does
not prohibit us from replacing our existing revolving and letter
of credit facility with new facilities. Several of our
indentures contain covenants restricting our ability to grant
liens securing debt, but such covenants all contain significant
exceptions allowing us to incur secured debt without granting
similar liens to the holders of notes under those indentures. In
determining the appropriate level of liquidity, we have
considered the potential impact of significant swings in
commodity prices, contract margin requirements, unplanned calls
on capital spending and the need for a reserve for near term
scheduled debt payments.

During 2004, we expect to reduce long term debt,
including scheduled maturities of $1 billion, based on the
following assumptions:

Successful execution of this plan does not
require us to to incur new debt.

Potential risks associated with achieving this
objective include:

•

Lower than expected levels of cash flow from
    operations.

To mitigate this exposure, Exploration &
    Production has hedged the price of natural gas for approximately
    80 percent of its expected 2004 production. Power estimates
    that it has hedged revenues, of varying degrees of certainty,
    covering approximately 98 percent of its fixed demand
    obligations through 2010.

•

Delays in asset sales or lower than expected
    proceeds.

Approximately one-third of the remaining asset
    sales are currently under contract and expected to close during
    the first quarter. If these sales do not close, we will not be
    precluded from meeting our operating commitments.

•

Sensitivity of margin requirements associated
    with our marginable commodity contracts.

As of February 2004, we estimate our exposure to
    additional margin requirements over the next 360 days to be
    as much as $350 million.

•

Exposure associated with our efforts to resolve
    regulatory and litigation issues arising from the Power business
    and the ongoing defense of certain shareholder litigation (see
    Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

•

Ability to replace our revolver and letter of
    credit facility on satisfactory terms.



Based on our available cash on hand and expected
cash flows from operations, we believe we have, or have access
to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet
future cash requirements and maintain a sufficient level of
liquidity to reasonably protect against unforeseen circumstances
requiring the use of funds.

Credit ratings

During 2002, our credit ratings were downgraded
to below investment grade and remained below investment grade
throughout 2003. As a result, Power’s participation in
energy risk management and trading activities requires alternate
credit support under certain agreements. In addition, we are
required to fund margin requirements pursuant to industry
standard derivative agreements with cash, letters of credit or
other negotiable instruments. Currently, we are effectively
required to post margins of 100 percent or more on forward
contracts in a loss position. Future liquidity requirements
relating to these instruments will be based on changes in their
value resulting from changes in factors such as price and
volatility.

As part of the plan announced in February of
2003, we established a goal of returning to investment grade
status. While reduction of debt is viewed as a key contributor
towards this goal, certain of the key credit rating agencies
have imputed the financial commitments associated with our
long-term tolling agreements within the Power business as debt.
If we are unable to achieve our goal of exiting the Power
business and/or the elimination of these commitments, receiving
an investment grade rating may be further delayed.

Off-balance sheet financing arrangements and
    guarantees of debt or other commitments to third
    parties

At December 31, 2001, we had operating lease
agreements with special purpose entities (SPE’s) relating
to certain of our travel center stores (included in discontinued
operations), offshore oil and gas pipelines and an onshore gas
processing plant. As a result of changes to the leases in
conjunction with the secured financing facilities completed in
July 2002, they no longer qualified for operating lease
treatment. The operating leases for the offshore oil and gas
pipelines and onshore gas processing plant were recorded as
capital leases within long-term debt at that time and were
repaid in May 2003. The travel center lease was reported in
liabilities of discontinued operations and was repaid in March
2003 pursuant to the travel centers sale.

We had agreements to sell, on an ongoing basis,
certain of our accounts receivable to qualified special-purpose
entities. On July 25, 2002, these agreements expired and
were not renewed.

In May 2002, we provided a guarantee of
approximately $127 million towards project financing of
energy assets owned and operated by Discovery Producer Services
LLC (Discovery) in which we own a 50 percent interest. This
obligation was not consolidated in our balance sheet as we
account for our interest under the equity method of accounting.
The guarantee was scheduled to expire at the end of 2003.
However, in December 2003, we made an additional
$127 million investment in Discovery which was used to
fully repay maturing debt satisfying the guarantee obligation.
All owners contributed amounts equal to their ownership
percentage. (See the

Investing Activities

section for
discussion of additional investment).

We have provided guarantees in the event of
nonpayment by WilTel on certain of its lease performance
obligations that extend through 2042 and have a maximum
potential exposure of approximately $51 million and
$53 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. Our exposure declines systematically throughout
the remaining lease terms. The recorded carrying value of these
guarantees was $46 million and $48 million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002 respectively.

In addition to these guarantees, we have issued
guarantees and other similar arrangements with off-balance sheet
risk as discussed under

Guarantees

in Note 15 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Operating
activities

The increase in cash flow from operations from
2002 levels is primarily due to the following:

•

improvement in Income (loss) from continuing
    operations by $626.9 million,

•

the absence of $753.9 million in payment of
    guarantees and payment obligations related to WilTel,



•

the reduction of margin funding requirements of
    $885.6 million, and

•

the increase in cash flow due to changes in
    accounts and notes receivable of $430.6 million.

The increase in Income (loss) from continuing
operations is reflective of the overall improvement in the
performance of our operating units. However, the noted
improvement in Income (loss) from continuing operations had a
lesser impact on cash flow from operations because Income (loss)
from continuing operations in 2002 included higher non-cash
expenses of $162.2 million for losses on property and other
assets and the $268.7 million provision for
uncollectible accounts from WilTel. The improvement in margin
funding requirements is a result of our decreased activity in
the Power business. We expect a continued decrease in margin
funding requirements in 2004 as we continue to manage our
current positions to reduce risk and exit other positions, which
reduces our overall activity. The increase in operating cash
flow related to decreased accounts receivable is a reflection of
the continued decrease in activity in the Power business in
2003. Cash flow from operations for 2004 is expected to be
sufficient to fund the projected 2004 capital expenditures of
$700 million to $800 million.

In March 2002, WilTel exercised its option to
purchase certain network assets under the ADP transaction for
which we had previously provided a guarantee. On March 29,
2002, as guarantor under the agreement, we paid
$753.9 million related to WilTel’s purchase of these
network assets. In 2002, we recorded in continuing operations
additional pre-tax charges of $268.7 million related to the
settlement of these receivables and claims. In 2001, we had
recorded a $188 million charge related to estimated
recovery of amounts from WilTel (see Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

The increase in net income and other increases in
cash flows from operations were offset by:

•

a $929.5 million decrease in derivative and
    energy risk management and trading net assets and
    liabilities; and

•

a $265.0 million payment on deferred set-up
    fee and fixed rate interest on the RMT note payable.

The decrease in funds associated with derivative
and energy risk management and trading assets and liabilities
during 2003 is a result of the decline in the activity of the
Power business. As we continue to reduce our activity in the
Power business, the cash requirements tied to working capital
and margin deposits will continue to decrease.

During 2003, we recorded approximately
$273.6 million in provisions for losses on property and
other assets and a net gain on disposition of assets of $142.8
(see Notes 3 and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).

The accrual for fixed rate interest included in
the RMT Note on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
represents the quarterly non-cash reclassification of the
deferred fixed rate interest from an accrued liability to the
RMT Note. The amortization of deferred set-up fee and fixed rate
interest on the RMT Note relates to amounts recognized in the
income statement as interest expense, which were not payable
until maturity. The RMT Note was repaid in May 2003 (see
Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Financing activities

During 2003, we made significant progress in
executing our business plan. We retired $3.2 billion in
debt, redeemed $275 million in preferred stock, and issued
$2 billion in debt at more favorable market rates. In 2004,
we plan to further reduce debt with funding from
(1) available cash on hand, (2) cash from asset sales,
(3) operating cash flow after capital expenditures, and
(4) the release of cash currently used as collateral. As
discussed in the Outlook section, we plan to replace our
existing revolver and letter of credit facility with new credit
facilities that do not require cash collateralization.



Significant borrowings and repayments during 2003
included the following:

For a discussion of other borrowings and
repayments in 2003, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.



In 2002, notes payable payments were
$1.1 billion net of notes payable proceeds while long-term
debt proceeds was $943 million net of long term debt
payments. Significant borrowings and repayments in 2002 included
the following:

Dividends paid on common stock are currently
$.01 per common share on a quarterly basis and totaled
$20.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003.
One of the covenants under the indenture for the
$800 million senior unsecured notes due 2010 currently
limits our quarterly common stock dividends to not more than
$.02 per common share. This restriction will be removed in
the future if certain requirements in the covenants are met (see
Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In
2003, we also paid $32.6 million in accrued dividends on
the 9.875 percent cumulative-convertible preferred shares
that were redeemed in June 2003. The $32.6 million of
deferred dividends paid includes the 2003 payment of
$6.8 million in dividends accrued at December 31,
2002. The $29.5 million of preferred stock dividends
reported on the Consolidated Statement of Operations also
includes $3.7 million of issuance costs.

In December 2001, we received net proceeds of
$95.3 million from the sale of a non-controlling preferred
interest in Piceance Production Holdings LLC (Piceance) to an
outside investor. During 2000, we received net proceeds totaling
$546.8 million from the sale of a preferred return interest
in Snow Goose Associates, L.L.C. (Snow Goose) to an outside
investor (see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements). During 2002, changes to these limited liability
company member interests and interests in Castle Associates L.P.
(Castle) required classification of these outside investor
interests as debt. The changes to the Snow Goose structure also
included the repayment of the investor’s preferred interest
in installments. During 2002, approximately $558 million
was repaid related to these interests and is included in the
payments of long-term debt. During 2003, the remaining balances
associated with the above interests were paid. Approximately
$323 million of payments were made and are included in
payments of long-term debt for 2003 (see Note 12 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

In third-quarter 2002, the downgrade of our
senior unsecured rating below BB by Standard &
Poor’s, and Ba1 by Moody’s Investors Service, resulted
in the early retirement of an outside investor’s preferred
ownership interest for $135 million (see Note 12 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

In December 1999, we formed Williams Capital
Trust I, which issued $175 million in our zero-coupon
obligated, mandatorily-redeemable preferred securities. In April
2001, we redeemed our obligated, mandatorily-redeemable
preferred securities for $194 million. We used proceeds
from the sale of the Ferrellgas senior common units for this
redemption.

Long-term debt, including debt due within one
year was $12.0 billion at December 31, 2003 compared
to $12.2 billion at December 31, 2002.



Significant items reflected as discontinued
operations within financing activities in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows, including the cash provided by
financing activities, included the following items:


•

Proceeds from long-term debt of Williams Energy
    Partners LP related to financing entered into in 2002 of
    $489 million.

•

Net proceeds from issuance of common units by
    Williams Energy Partners LP in 2002 of $279 million.


•

Proceeds from issuance of $1.4 billion of
    WCG Note Trust Notes for which we provided indirect credit
    support. WilTel retained all of the proceeds from this issuance
    (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Investing activities

Capital expenditures by segment are presented
below.

Capital Expenditures

The acquisition of businesses in 2001 reflects
our June 11, 2001, acquisition of 50 percent of
Barrett’s outstanding common stock in a cash tender offer
of $73 per share for a total of approximately
$1.2 billion. On August 2, 2001, we completed the
acquisition of Barrett by issuing 29.6 million shares of
our common stock in exchange for the remaining Barrett shares.

Purchase of investments/advances to affiliates in
2003 consists primarily of $127 million of additional
investment by Midstream in Discovery. The cash investment was
used by Discovery to pay maturing debt (see Note 3 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements). Purchases in 2002 include
approximately $234 million towards the development of the
Gulfstream joint venture project, one of our equity method
investments. In 2001, we contributed $437 million toward
the development of our joint interest in the Gulfstream project.



In 2003, we purchased $739.9 million of
restricted investments comprised of U.S. Treasury notes. We
sold $10 million of these notes and retired
$341.8 million on their scheduled maturity date. We made
these purchases and sales to satisfy the 105 percent cash
collateralization covenant in the $800 million revolving
credit facility (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements).

In 2003 and 2002, we realized significant cash
proceeds from asset dispositions, the sales of businesses, and
the disposition of investments as part of our overall plan to
increase liquidity and reduce debt. The following sales provided
significant proceeds from sales and include various adjustments
subsequent to the actual date of sale:

In 2003:

In 2002:

Proceeds received from disposition of investments
and other assets in 2001 reflect our sale of the Ferrellgas
senior common units to an affiliate of Ferrellgas for proceeds
of $199 million in April 2001 and our sale of certain
convenience stores for approximately $150 million in May
2001.

We received $180 million in cash proceeds
from the sale of notes receivable from WilTel to Leucadia in
fourth-quarter 2002. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion of WilTel items and
amounts.

In 2001, Purchase of assets subsequently leased
to seller reflects our purchase of the Williams Technology
Center, other ancillary assets and three corporate aircraft for
$276 million. These assets were sold to WilTel in 2002.

Significant items reflected as discontinued
operations within investing activities on the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows include the following:

•

capital expenditures and purchases of investments
    by WilTel, totaling $1.5 billion in 2001;

•

capital expenditures of Kern River, primarily for
    expansion of its interstate natural gas pipeline system, of
    $134 million in 2001; and

•

capital expenditures of Texas Gas, primarily for
    expansion of its interstate natural gas pipeline system, of
    $41.9 million and $106.2 million in 2002 and 2001,
    respectively.



Contractual
obligations

The table below summarizes the maturity dates of
our contractual obligations by period.

Effects of inflation

Our cost increases in recent years have benefited
from relatively low inflation rates during that time.
Approximately 45 percent of our gross property, plant and
equipment is at Gas Pipeline and approximately 55 percent
is at other operating units. Gas Pipeline is subject to
regulation, which limits recovery to historical



cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost
are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate
being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased
actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost based
regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may
limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the other
operating units, operating costs are influenced to a greater
extent by specific price changes in oil and natural gas and
related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude,
refined product, natural gas, natural gas liquids and power
prices are particularly sensitive to OPEC production levels
and/or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand
balance in the near future.

Environmental

We are a participant in certain environmental
activities in various stages involving assessment studies,
cleanup operations and/or remedial processes at certain sites,
some of which we currently do not own (see Note 16 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these
sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible
parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or
other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally
liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these
activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates
of the most likely costs of such cleanup activities are
approximately $74 million, all of which is accrued at
December 31, 2003. We expect to seek recovery of
approximately $28 million of the accrued costs through
future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these
costs will be funded from operations. During 2003, we paid
approximately $18 million for cleanup and/or remediation
and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately
$24 million in 2004 for these activities. Estimates of the
most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed
assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our
experience with other similar cleanup operations. At
December 31, 2003, certain assessment studies were still in
process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly
different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual
costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent
of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup
standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities,
and other factors.

We are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and
to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 which require
the EPA to issue new regulations. We are also subject to
regulation at the state and local level. In September 1998, the
EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of
ground-level ozone in certain states. We anticipate that during
2004, the EPA will promulgate additional rules regarding
hazardous air pollutants. We estimate that capital expenditures
necessary to install emission control devices on our Transco
system over the next five years to comply with rules will be
between $230 million and $260 million. The actual
costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans
developed by each state to comply with these regulations. We
consider these costs on our Transco system associated with
compliance with these environmental laws and regulations to be
prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and,
therefore, recoverable through its rates.

In December 1999, standards promulgated by the
EPA for tailpipe emissions and the content of sulfur in gasoline
were announced. Our estimation is that capital expenditures
necessary to bring our refinery into compliance over the next
five years will be approximately $50 million. We anticipate
that, if the sale of the refinery is completed (see Note 2
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), the purchaser
would be responsible for these compliance expenditures. The
actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation
plans.

On July 2, 2001, the EPA issued an
information request asking for information on oil releases and
discharges in any amount from our pipelines, pipeline systems,
and pipeline facilities used in the movement of oil or petroleum
products, during the period July 1, 1998 through
July 2, 2001. In November 2001, we furnished our response.
This matter has not become an enforcement proceeding. On
March 11, 2004, the Department of Justice
(DOJ) invited the new owner of the pipeline to enter into
negotiations regarding alleged violations of the Clean Water Act
and to sign a tolling agreement. No penalty has been assessed by
the EPA; however, the DOJ stated in its letter that the maximum
possible penalties were approximately $22 million for the
alleged violations. It is anticipated that by providing
additional clarification and through negotiations with the EPA
and DOJ, that any proposed penalty will be reduced. We have
indemnity obligations to the new owner related to this matter.



Item 7A.

Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk

Interest rate risk

Our current interest rate risk exposure is
related primarily to our debt portfolio and energy trading and
non-trading portfolios.

A significant portion of our debt portfolio is
comprised of fixed rate debt in order to mitigate the impact of
fluctuations in interest rates. We have historically utilized
interest rate swaps and interest rate forward contracts to
further mitigate risk. Currently, we do not have outstanding
swaps or forward contracts related to our debt portfolio. The
maturity of our long-term debt portfolio is partially influenced
by the expected life of our operating assets.

We also have interest rate risk in long-dated
energy contracts included in our energy trading and non-trading
portfolios. The value of these transactions can fluctuate daily
based on movements in the underlying interest rates. We use
floating to fixed interest rate swaps, bond futures and
Eurodollar contracts to manage this variable rate exposure. At
December 31, 2003, the notional amount of the outstanding
contracts included in our energy trading and non-trading
portfolios was $860 million.

The tables below provide information as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, about our interest rate risk
sensitive instruments. Long-term debt in the tables represents
principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and
weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates.

(1)

2003 — Weighted-average interest rate
    is LIBOR plus 3.75 percent.

(2)

$922 million of notes payable relates to the
    RMT note payable (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements). The variable rate portion related to
    these notes is based on the Eurodollar rate,



plus 4 percent per annum. An additional
    14 percent fixed rate, compounded quarterly, accrues to the
    RMT note payable.

(3)

2002 — Weighted-average interest rate
    through 2006 is LIBOR plus an applicable margin ranging from
    1.125 percent to 5.0 percent, except $178 million
    at Eurodollar plus 4.25 percent; weighted-average interest
    rate in 2007 is Eurodollar plus 4.25 percent.

(4)

The marketable securities mature in 2004. The
    Balance Sheet classification is determined based on the expected
    term of the underlying collateral requirement (see Note 1
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Commodity price risk

We are exposed to the impact of market
fluctuations in the price of natural gas, power, crude oil,
refined products and natural gas liquids. We are exposed to
these risks in connection with our owned energy-related assets,
our long-term energy-related contracts and our proprietary
trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these
market fluctuations using various derivatives. The fair value of
derivative contracts is subject to changes in energy-commodity
market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in
which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest
rates. We measure the risk in our portfolios using a
value-at-risk methodology to estimate the potential one-day loss
from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios.

Value at risk requires a number of key
assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual
losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios.
The value-at-risk model assumes that, as a result of changes in
commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that
the one-day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed
the value at risk. The value-at-risk model uses historical
simulations to estimate hypothetical movements in future market
prices. In these simulations, we assume normal market conditions
and historical market prices. In applying the value-at-risk
methodology, we do not consider that changing the portfolio in
response to market conditions could affect market prices and
could take longer than a one-day holding period to execute.
While a one-day holding period has historically been the
industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately
represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our
own credit and liquidity constraints.

We segregated our derivative contracts into
trading and non-trading contracts, as defined in the following
paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two
categories. Derivative contracts designated as normal purchases
or sales under SFAS No. 133 and non-derivative energy
contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at
risk.

Trading

At December 31, 2003, our trading portfolio
consists of derivative contracts entered into to provide price
risk management services to third-party customers. Only
contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are carried
at fair value on the balance sheet. At December 31, 2002,
both derivatives and non-derivative energy-related contracts
were carried at fair value on the balance sheet in accordance
with EITF 98-10. With the adoption of EITF 02-3 on
January 1, 2003, we discontinued reporting non-derivative
contracts at fair value. In addition, during the second quarter
of 2003, consistent with our intention to exit the merchant
energy trading business, we reassessed which contracts were
considered trading and which were hedges or potential hedges of
our long-dated power business. This resulted in the
reclassification of certain derivative contracts related to our
Power segment to the non-trading portfolio during 2003.

The value at risk for contracts held for trading
purposes was $5 million and $36 million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The value at risk
for contracts held at December 31, 2002, has been restated
to exclude the non-derivative contracts that are no longer
carried at fair value on the balance sheet. The trading
portfolio value at risk at December 31, 2002, includes all
the derivative contracts, except for those designated as
SFAS No. 133 hedges, from our Power segment and the natural
gas liquids trading operations reported in the Midstream
segment, as those contracts were all considered trading at that
time. During the year ended December 31, 2003, our value at
risk for contracts considered trading ranged from a high of
$36 million to a low of $5 million.



Non-Trading

Our non-trading portfolio consists of contracts
that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure
from the following activities:

The value at risk for contracts held for
non-trading purposes was $18 million at December 31,
2003 and $45 million at December 31, 2002. During the
year ended December 31, 2003, our value at risk for
contracts considered non-trading ranged from a high of
$45 million to a low of $18 million. As discussed in
the

Trading

section above, we reassessed which contracts
were considered trading and which contracts were considered
non-trading during the second quarter of 2003. Certain of these
contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges under
SFAS No. 133. We did not consider the underlying
commodity positions to which the cash flow hedges relate in our
value-at-risk model. Therefore, value at risk does not represent
economic losses that could occur on a total non-trading
portfolio that includes the underlying commodity positions.

Foreign currency risk

We have international investments that could
affect our financial results if the investments incur a
permanent decline in value as a result of changes in foreign
currency exchange rates and the economic conditions in foreign
countries.

International investments accounted for under the
cost method totaled $95 million and $130 million at
December 31, 2003, and 2002, respectively. These
investments are primarily in non-publicly traded companies for
which it is not practicable to estimate fair value; therefore,
the fair value of these investments is deemed to approximate
their carrying amount. We continue to believe that we can
realize the carrying value of these investments considering the
status of the operations of the companies underlying these
investments. If a 20 percent change occurred in the value
of the underlying currencies of these investments against the
U.S. dollar, the fair value of these investments at
December 31, 2003, could change by approximately
$19 million assuming a direct correlation between the
currency fluctuation and the value of the investments.

Net assets of consolidated foreign operations
whose functional currency is the local currency are located
primarily in Canada and approximate 15 percent of our net
assets at December 31, 2003. These foreign operations do
not have significant transactions or financial instruments
denominated in other currencies. However, these investments do
have the potential to impact our financial position, due to
fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process
of re-measuring the local functional currency into the
U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the
respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar
could have changed stockholders’ equity by approximately
$125 million at December 31, 2003.

We historically have not utilized derivatives or
other financial instruments to hedge the risk associated with
the movement in foreign currencies with the exception of a
Canadian dollar-denominated note receivable (see Note 15 of
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). However, we monitor
currency fluctuations and could potentially use derivative
financial instruments or employ other investment alternatives if
cash flows or investment returns so warrant.



Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Stockholders of The Williams Companies, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet of The Williams Companies, Inc. as of
December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related consolidated
statements of operations, stockholders’ equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2003. Our audits also included the financial
statement schedule listed in the index at Item 15(a). These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial
statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of The Williams
Companies, Inc. at December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2003, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated
financial statements, effective January 1, 2003, the
Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 02-3,

“Issues Related to Accounting for Contracts Involved in
Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities”

(see
third paragraph of

“Energy commodity risk management and
trading activities and revenues”

section in
Note 1) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 143,

“Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations”

(see last paragraph of

“Property,
plant and equipment”

section in Note 1).

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Tulsa, Oklahoma

February 18, 2004



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

See accompanying notes.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

See accompanying notes.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

See accompanying notes.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

*

Includes cash and cash equivalents of
    discontinued operations of $2.5 million, $85.6 million
    and $60.7 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

See accompanying notes.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

Note 1.

Description of business, basis of presentation
    and summary of significant accounting policies

Description of business

Operations of our company are located principally
in the United States and are organized into the following
reporting segments: Gas Pipeline, Exploration &
Production, Midstream Gas & Liquids, and Power
(formerly named Williams Energy Marketing & Trading
Company).

Gas Pipeline is comprised primarily of two
interstate natural gas pipelines as well as investments in
natural gas pipeline-related companies. The Gas Pipeline
operating segments have been aggregated for reporting purposes
and include Northwest Pipeline, which extends from the
San Juan Basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern
Colorado to Oregon and Washington, and Transcontinental Gas Pipe
Line (Transco), which extends from the Gulf of Mexico region to
the northeastern United States.

Exploration & Production includes
natural gas exploration, production and gas management
activities primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Mid-Continent
regions of the United States and in Argentina.

Midstream Gas & Liquids (Midstream) is
comprised of natural gas gathering and processing and treating
facilities in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions of the
United States, majority-owned natural gas compression and
transportation facilities in Venezuela; and assets in Canada
including several natural gas liquids extraction facilities and
a fractionation plant.

Power is an energy services provider that buys,
sells, stores, and transports a full suite of energy-related
commodities, including power, natural gas, crude oil, refined
products and emission credits, primarily on a wholesale level.
In June 2002, we announced our intent to exit the energy
merchant business and reduce our financial commitment to the
Power segment. As a result, Power initiated efforts to sell all
or portions of its power, natural gas and crude and refined
products portfolios and reduced its involvement in trading
activities as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (SFAS) No. 115

“Accounting for
Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.”

However, Power still conducts limited trading activities and
maintains contracts entered into for trading purposes. As the
process to sell the portfolio continues, Power manages its
activities to reduce risk, to generate cash and to fulfill
contractual commitments.

Overview

In February 2003, we outlined our planned
business strategy in response to the events that significantly
impacted the energy sector and our company during late 2001 and
much of 2002, including the collapse of Enron and the severe
decline of the telecommunications industry. The plan focused on
migrating to an integrated natural gas business comprised of a
strong, but smaller, portfolio of natural gas businesses;
reducing debt; and increasing our liquidity through asset sales,
strategic levels of financing and reductions in operating costs.
The plan was designed to address near-term and medium-term debt
and liquidity issues, to de-leverage the company with the
objective of returning to investment grade status, and to
develop a balance sheet and cash flows capable of supporting and
ultimately growing our remaining businesses. A component of our
plan was to reduce risk and liquidity requirements of the Power
segment while realizing the value of Power’s portfolio.
Another component of the plan consisted of selling all or parts
of the Power business.

During 2003, we successfully executed the
following critical components of our plan:

•

Generated cash proceeds of approximately
    $3 billion from the sales of assets.

•

Repaid $3.2 billion of debt through
    scheduled maturities and early extinguishment of debt and
    accessed the public debt markets available to us primarily to
    refinance $2 billion of higher cost debt.

•

Sustained core business earnings capacity through
    completed system expansions at Gas Pipeline, continued drilling
    activity at Exploration & Production and continued
    investment in deepwater activities within Midstream.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

Continued rationalization of our cost structure,
    including a 28 percent reduction in selling, general and
    administrative costs of continuing operations and a
    39 percent reduction in general corporate expenses.

Through these efforts, we satisfied key liquidity
issues facing us in 2003, including the early repayment of the
Williams Production RMT Company (RMT) note payable of
approximately $1.15 billion (including certain contractual
fees and deferred interest). Additionally, we completed tender
offers that prepaid approximately $721 million of the
$1.4 billion of our senior unsecured 9.25 percent
notes that mature in first-quarter 2004.

We are pursuing a strategy of exiting the Power
business. However, market conditions have contributed to the
difficulty of, and could delay, full, immediate exit from this
business. In 2003, we generated in excess of $600 million
from the sale, termination or liquidation of Power contracts and
assets. During the year, we continued to manage our portfolio to
reduce risk, to generate cash and to fulfill contractual
commitments. We are also pursuing our goal to resolve the
remaining legal and regulatory issues associated with the
business.

During 2003, we engaged financial advisors to
assist and advise with efforts to exit the Power business.
Because market conditions may change and we cannot determine the
impact of this on a buyer’s point of view, amounts
ultimately received in any portfolio sale, contract liquidation
or realization may be significantly different from the estimated
economic value or carrying values reflected in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet. In addition, tolling agreements are not
derivatives and thus have no carrying value in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet pursuant to the application of Emerging Issues
Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02-3, “Issues Related to
Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk
Management Activities,” (EITF 02-3). Based on current
market conditions certain of these agreements are forecasted to
realize significant future losses. It is possible that we may
sell contracts for less than their carrying value or enter into
agreements to terminate certain obligations, either of which
could result in significant future loss recognition or
reductions of future cash flows.

Results for 2003 include approximately
$117 million of revenue related to the correction of the
accounting treatment previously applied to certain third party
derivative contracts during 2002 and 2001. This matter was
initially disclosed in our Form 10-Q for the second quarter
of 2003. Income from continuing operations before income taxes
and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles in 2003
was $51.6 million. Absent the corrections, we would have
reported a pretax loss from continuing operations in 2003.
Approximately $83 million of this revenue relates to a
correction of net energy trading assets for certain derivative
contract terminations occurring in 2001. The remaining
$34 million relates to net gains on certain other
derivative contracts entered into in 2002 and 2001 that we now
believe should not have been deferred as a component of other
comprehensive income due to the incorrect designation of these
contracts as cash flow hedges. Our management, after
consultation with our independent auditor, concluded that the
effect of the previous accounting treatment was not material to
2003 and prior periods and the trend of earnings.

Entering 2004, our plan is to focus on the
following objectives:

•

sustain solid core business performance,
    including increased capital allocation to Exploration &
    Production activities;

•

continue reduction of debt, including scheduled
    maturities and early retirements, and selective refinancing of
    certain instruments; and

•

maintain investment discipline.

Key execution steps include the completion of
planned asset sales, which are estimated to generate proceeds of
approximately $800 million in 2004, additional reductions
of our SG&A costs, the replacement of our
cash-collateralized letter of credit and revolver facility with
facilities that do not encumber cash and continuing efforts to
exit from the power business.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Basis of presentation

In accordance with the provisions related to
discontinued operations within SFAS No. 144,
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets,” the accompanying consolidated financial statements
and notes reflect the results of operations, financial position
and cash flows of the following components as discontinued
operations (see Note 2):

Additionally, the results of operations and cash
flows of WilTel Communications (WilTel), formerly Williams
Communications, are reflected in discontinued operations in the
accompanying financial statements.

Unless otherwise indicated, the information in
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements relates to
our continuing operations. We expect that other components of
our business may be classified as discontinued operations in the
future as the sales of those assets occur.

We have restated all segment information in the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for all prior
periods presented to reflect the changes noted above.

We have also reclassified certain prior year
amounts to conform to current year classifications.

In 2001, through two transactions, we acquired
all of the outstanding stock of Barrett Resources Corporation
(Barrett). On June 11, 2001, we acquired 50 percent of
Barrett’s outstanding common stock in a cash tender offer
totaling approximately $1.2 billion. We acquired the
remaining 50 percent of Barrett’s outstanding common
stock on August 2, 2001, through a merger by exchanging
each remaining share of Barrett common stock for
1.767 shares of our common stock for a total of
approximately 30 million shares of our common stock valued
at $1.2 billion.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The unaudited pro forma net loss for 2001, if the
purchase of 100 percent of Barrett occurred at the
beginning of that year, was $396.0 million, or $.76 loss
per diluted share. Pro forma financial information is not
necessarily indicative of results of operations that would have
occurred if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of
that year or of future results of operations of the combined
companies.

The estimated fair values of the significant
assets acquired and liabilities assumed at August 2, 2001,
the date of acquisition, were:

Summary of significant accounting
    policies

Principles of consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of our corporate parent and our majority-owned
subsidiaries and investments. We account for companies in which
we and our subsidiaries own 20 percent to 50 percent of the
voting common stock, or otherwise exercise significant influence
over operating and financial policies of the company, under the
equity method.

Use of estimates

The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results
could differ from those estimates.

Estimates and assumptions which, in the opinion
of management, are significant to the underlying amounts
included in the financial statements and for which it would be
reasonably possible that future events or information could
change those estimates include:

These estimates are discussed further throughout
the accompanying notes.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include demand and time
deposits, certificates of deposit and other marketable
securities with maturities of three months or less when acquired.

Restricted cash and investments

Restricted cash within current assets consists
primarily of collateral as required by certain borrowings by our
Venezuelan operations and letters of credit. Restricted cash
within noncurrent assets consists primarily of collateral in
support of surety bonds underwritten by an insurance company,
the RMT term loan B (see Note 11), certain borrowings
by our Venezuelan operations and letters of credit. We do not
expect this cash to be released within the next twelve months.
The current and noncurrent restricted cash is primarily invested
in short-term money market accounts with financial institutions
and an insurance company as well as treasury securities.

Both short-term and long-term restricted
investments consist of short-term U.S. Treasury securities
as required under the $800 million revolving and letter of
credit facility (see Note 11). These securities are
purchased and sold based on the balance required in the
collateral account. Therefore, these securities are accounted
for as “available-for-sale.” These securities are
marked to market with the unrealized holding gains and losses
included in Other Comprehensive Income, until realized (see
Note 18). Realized gains or losses are reclassified into
earnings and based on specific identification of the securities
sold.

The classification of restricted cash and
investments is determined based on the expected term of the
collateral requirement and not necessarily the maturity date of
the underlying securities.

Accounts receivable

Accounts receivable are carried on a gross basis,
with no discounting, less the allowance for doubtful accounts.
No allowance for doubtful accounts is recognized at the time the
revenue, which generates the accounts receivable, is recognized.
We estimate the allowance for doubtful accounts based on
existing economic conditions, the financial conditions of the
customers and the amount and age of past due accounts.
Receivables are considered past due if full payment is not
received by the contractual due date. Interest income related to
past due accounts receivable is recognized at the time full
payment is received or collectibility is assured. Past due
accounts are generally written off against the allowance for
doubtful accounts only after all collection attempts have been
exhausted.

Inventory valuation

Prior to the EITF reaching a consensus on
EITF 02-3 on October 25, 2003 (see

Energy commodity
risk management and trading activities and revenues

), we
stated inventories at cost, which were not in excess of market,
except for certain assets held for energy risk management by
Power and Midstream which were stated at fair value. We stated
all inventories purchased after October 25, 2003 at cost in
accordance with Issue 02-3. For inventories held for energy risk
management purposes purchased on or before October 25,
2002, we included the amount by which fair value exceeded cost
in a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.
Beginning on January 1, 2003, we stated all inventories at
cost, which is not in excess of market. We determined the cost
of certain natural gas inventories held by Transco using the
last-in, first-out (LIFO) cost method; and we determined
the cost of the remaining inventories primarily using the
average-cost method or market, if lower.

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at
cost. We base the carrying value of these assets on estimates,
assumptions and judgments relative to capitalized costs, useful
lives and salvage values. As



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

regulated entities, Northwest Pipeline and
Transco provide for depreciation using the straight-line method
at FERC prescribed rates. Depreciation of general plant is
provided on a group basis at straight-line rates. Depreciation
rates used for major regulated gas plant facilities at
December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 are as follows:

Depreciation for non-regulated entities is
provided primarily on the straight-line method over estimated
useful lives except as noted below regarding oil and gas
exploration and production activities. The estimated useful
lives are as follows.

Gains or losses from the ordinary sale or
retirement of property, plant and equipment for regulated
pipelines are credited or charged to accumulated depreciation;
other gains or losses are recorded in net income (loss).

Oil and gas exploration and production activities
are accounted for under the successful efforts method of
accounting. Costs incurred in connection with the drilling and
equipping of exploratory wells are capitalized as incurred. If
proved reserves are not found, such costs are charged to
expense. Other exploration costs, including lease rentals, are
expensed as incurred. All costs related to development wells,
including related production equipment and lease acquisition
costs, are capitalized when incurred. Unproved properties are
evaluated annually, or as conditions warrant, to determine any
impairment in carrying value. Depreciation, depletion and
amortization are provided under the units of production method
on a field basis.

Proved properties, including developed and
undeveloped, and costs associated with probable reserves, are
assessed for impairment using estimated future cash flows on a
field basis. Estimating future cash flows involves the use of
complex judgments such as estimation of the proved and probable
oil and gas reserve quantities, risk associated with the
different categories of oil and gas reserves, timing of
development and production, expected future commodity prices,
capital expenditures and production costs.

Effective January 1, 2003, we adopted
SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations.” This Statement requires that the fair value
of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized
in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate
of fair value can be made, and that the associated asset
retirement costs be capitalized as part of the carrying amount
of the long-lived asset. As required by the new standard, we
recorded liabilities equal to the present value of expected
future asset retirement obligations at January 1, 2003. The
obligations relate to producing wells, offshore platforms,
underground storage caverns and gas gathering well connections.
At the end of the useful life of each respective asset, we are
legally obligated to plug both producing wells and storage
caverns and remove any related surface equipment, to



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

dismantle offshore platforms, and to cap certain
gathering pipelines at the wellhead connection and remove any
related surface equipment. The liabilities are partially offset
by increases in property, plant and equipment, net of
accumulated depreciation, recorded as if the provisions of the
Statement had been in effect at the date the obligation was
incurred. As a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 143,
we recorded a long-term liability of $33.4 million;
property, plant and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation,
of $24.8 million and a credit to earnings of
$1.2 million (net of a $.1 million benefit for income
taxes) reflected as a cumulative effect of a change in
accounting principle. We also recorded a $9.7 million
regulatory asset for retirement costs of dismantling offshore
platforms expected to be recovered through regulated rates. In
connection with adoption of SFAS No. 143, we changed
our method of accounting to include salvage value of equipment
related to producing wells in the calculation of depreciation.
The impact of this change is included in the amounts discussed
above. We have not recorded liabilities for pipeline
transmission assets, processing and refining assets, and gas
gathering systems pipelines. A reasonable estimate of the fair
value of the retirement obligations for these assets cannot be
made as the remaining life of these assets is not currently
determinable. If the Statement had been adopted at the beginning
of 2002, the impact to our income from continuing operations and
net income would have been immaterial. There would have been no
impact on earnings per share.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair
value of assets of businesses acquired. Beginning
January 1, 2002, the impairment of goodwill and other
intangible assets is measured pursuant to the guidelines of
SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets”. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment by first
comparing our management’s estimate of the fair value of a
reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. If
the carrying value exceeds its fair value, a computation of the
implied fair value of the goodwill is compared with its related
carrying value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit
goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an
impairment loss is recognized in the amount of the excess.

When a reporting unit is sold or classified as
held for sale, any goodwill of that reporting unit is included
in its carrying value for purposes of determining any impairment
or gain/ loss on sale. If a portion of a reporting unit with
goodwill is sold or classified as held for sale and that asset
group represents a business, a portion of the reporting
unit’s goodwill is allocated to and included in the
carrying value of that asset group. Except for Bio-energy,
Alaska Retail, Williams Energy Partners and the Travel Centers,
none of the operations sold during 2003 or classified as held
for sale at December 31, 2003 represented reporting units
with goodwill or businesses within reporting units to which
goodwill was required to be allocated.

Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our
management’s estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
used to determine the estimate of the reporting unit’s fair
value. The use of alternate judgments and/or assumptions could
result in the recognition of different levels of impairment
charges in the financial statements.

In accordance with SFAS No. 142,
approximately $1 billion of goodwill acquired subsequent to
June 30, 2001, in the acquisition of Barrett, was not
amortized in 2001. Beginning January 1, 2002, all goodwill
is no longer amortized, but is tested annually for impairment.
Application of the nonamortization provisions of
SFAS No. 142 did not materially impact the
comparability of the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
Exploration & Production’s goodwill was
approximately $1 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002.

Treasury stock

Treasury stock purchases are accounted for under
the cost method whereby the entire cost of the acquired stock is
recorded as treasury stock. Gains and losses on the subsequent
reissuance of shares are credited or charged to capital in
excess of par value using the average-cost method.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Energy commodity risk management and trading
    activities and revenues

Prior to 2003, we, through Power and the natural
gas liquids trading operations (reported within the Midstream
segment), had energy commodity risk management and trading
operations that entered into energy and energy-related contracts
to provide price-risk management services to our third-party
customers. These contracts involved power, natural gas, refined
products, natural gas liquids and crude oil. Prior to the
adoption of EITF 02-3, we valued all energy and
energy-related contracts used in energy commodity risk
management and trading activities at fair value in accordance
with SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and Issue
No. 98-10, “Accounting for Contracts Involved in
Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities.” Energy
contracts included the following:

Energy-related contracts included the following:

In addition, we entered into interest rate swap
agreements and credit default swaps to manage the interest rate
and credit risk in our energy trading portfolio. Prior to 2003,
we recorded these energy and energy-related contracts and credit
default swap agreements, with the exception of physical trading
commodity inventories, in current and noncurrent energy risk
management and trading assets and energy risk management and
trading liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We based
the classification of current versus noncurrent on the timing of
expected future cash flows. In accordance with
SFAS No. 133 and Issue No. 98-10, we recognized
the net change in fair value of these contracts representing
unrealized gains and losses in income currently. We also
recorded the net change in fair value as revenues in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations. Power and the natural gas
liquids trading operations, reported their trading
operations’ physical sales transactions net of the related
purchase costs, consistent with fair value accounting for such
trading activities. The accounting for energy-related contracts
required us to assess whether certain of these contracts were
executory service arrangements or leases pursuant to
SFAS No. 13, “Accounting for Leases.” As a
result, we assessed each of our energy-related contracts and
made the determination based on the substance of each contract
focusing on factors such as 1) physical and operational
control of the related asset, 2) risks and rewards of
owning, operating and maintaining the related asset and
3) other contractual terms. See

Recent accounting
standards

section within this Note for recent developments
regarding guidance determining whether an arrangement contains a
lease.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As discussed in the

Inventory valuation

section of this note, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue
No. 02-3 on October 25, 2002. This Issue rescinded
EITF Issue No. 98-10. As a result of the rescission, in
2003, we no longer account for 1) energy trading contracts
that are not derivatives as defined in SFAS No. 133
and 2) commodity trading inventories at fair value. The
consensus was applicable for fiscal periods beginning after
December 15, 2002, except for physical trading commodity
inventories purchased after October 25, 2002. Issue
No. 02-3 prohibited us from reporting physical trading
commodity inventories purchased after October 25, 2002 at
fair value. We applied the consensus effective January 1,
2003 and reported the initial application as a cumulative effect
of a change in accounting principle. The effect of initially
applying the consensus reduced net income by
$762.5 million, net of a $471.4 million benefit for
income taxes. The charge primarily consisted of the fair value
of power tolling, load serving, transportation and storage
contracts. These contracts did not meet the definition of a
derivative and thus are no longer reported at fair value. After
January 1, 2003, these contracts were accounted for under
the accrual basis of accounting. The charge also included the
amount by which the December 31, 2002 fair value of
physical trading commodity inventories exceeded cost. We
continued to carry derivatives at fair value in 2003. See
further discussion on derivative assets and liabilities in the

Derivative instruments and hedging activities, including
interest rate swaps

section within this Note.

Prior to 2003, we determined the fair value of
energy and energy-related contracts based on the nature of the
transaction and the market in which transactions were executed.
We executed certain transactions in exchange-traded or
over-the-counter markets for which quoted prices in active
periods existed. We executed other transactions in markets or
periods in which quoted prices were not available. Quoted market
prices for varying periods in active markets were readily
available for valuing forward contracts, futures contracts, swap
agreements and purchase and sales transactions in the commodity
markets in which Power and the natural gas liquids trading
operations transacted. Market data in active periods was also
available for interest rate transactions, which affected the
trading portfolio. For contracts or transactions that extended
into periods for which actively quoted prices were not
available, Power and the natural gas liquids trading operations
estimated energy commodity prices in the illiquid periods by
incorporating information obtained from commodity prices in
actively quoted markets, prices in less active markets, prices
reflected in current transactions and market fundamental
analysis. For contracts where quoted market prices were not
available, primarily transportation, storage, full requirements,
load serving, transmission and power tolling contracts
(energy-related contracts), Power estimated fair value using
proprietary models and other valuation techniques that reflected
the best information available under the circumstances. In
situations where Power had received current information from
negotiation activities with potential buyers of these contracts,
Power considered this information in the determination of the
fair value of the contract. The valuation techniques used when
estimating fair value for energy-related contracts incorporated
the following:

In estimating fair value, Power also assumed
liquidation of the positions in an orderly manner over a
reasonable period of time in a transaction between a willing
buyer and seller.

These valuation techniques for tolling contracts,
full requirements contracts and other non-derivative
energy-related contracts utilized factors such as the following:

•

quoted energy commodity market prices,

•

estimates of energy commodity market prices in
    the absence of quoted market prices,



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Fair value also reflected a risk premium that
market participants would consider in their determination of
fair value. Regardless of the method for which fair value was
determined, we considered the risk of non-performance and credit
considerations of the counterparty in estimating the fair value
of all contracts. We adjusted the estimates of fair value as
assumptions changed or as transactions became closer to
settlement and enhanced estimates become available.

The fair value of our trading portfolio was
continually subject to change due to changing market conditions
and changing trading portfolio positions. In 2002, determining
fair value for these contracts also involved complex assumptions
including estimating natural gas and power market prices in
illiquid periods and markets, estimating market volatility and
liquidity and correlation of natural gas and power prices,
evaluating risk arising from uncertainty inherent in estimating
cash flows and estimates regarding counterparty performance and
credit considerations. Changes in valuation methodologies or the
underlying assumptions could result in significantly different
fair values.

Derivative
instruments and hedging activities, including interest rate
swaps

In 2002, we presented Power and Midstream’s
derivative and non-derivative trading assets on the Consolidated
Balance Sheet in energy commodity risk management and trading
activities. All other derivatives were presented in current
assets, other assets and deferred charges, accrued liabilities
and other liabilities and deferred income in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2002. After the adoption
of EITF 02-3 on January 1, 2003, we recorded all
derivatives in current and noncurrent derivative assets and
current and noncurrent derivative liabilities. We based the
classification of current versus noncurrent on the timing of
expected future cash flows.

Derivative instruments held by us consist
primarily of futures contracts, swap agreements, forward
contracts and option contracts. We execute most of these
transactions in exchange-traded or over-the-counter markets for
which quoted prices in active periods exist. For contracts with
lives exceeding the time period for which quoted prices were
available, we determine fair value by estimating commodity
prices during the illiquid periods. We estimate commodity prices
during illiquid periods by incorporating information obtained
from commodity prices in actively quoted markets, prices
reflected in current transactions and market fundamental
analysis.

In first-quarter 2002, we began managing a
portion of our interest rate risk on an enterprise basis by the
corporate parent. The more significant of these risks relates to
Power’s trading and non-trading portfolio. To facilitate
the management of the risk, our entities enter into derivative
instruments (usually swaps) with the corporate parent. The
level, term and nature of derivative instruments entered into
with external parties are determined by the corporate parent.
Power enters into intercompany interest rate swaps with the
corporate parent, the effect of which is included in
Power’s segment revenues and segment profit (loss) as shown
in the reconciliation within the segment disclosures (see
Note 19). The results of interest rate swaps with external
counterparties are shown as interest rate swap loss in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations below operating income
(loss).

The accounting for changes in the fair value of
all derivatives depends upon whether we have designated them in
a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging
relationship. To qualify for designation in a hedging
relationship, specific criteria have to be met and the
appropriate documentation maintained. We



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

establish hedging relationships pursuant to our
risk management policies. We initially and regularly evaluate
the hedging relationships to determine whether they were
expected to be, and remain, highly effective hedges. If a
derivative ceases to be a highly effective hedge, hedge
accounting is discontinued prospectively, and future changes in
the fair value of the derivative are recognized in earnings each
period.

For derivatives designated as a hedge of a
recognized asset or liability or an unrecognized firm commitment
(fair value hedges), we recognize the changes in the fair value
of the derivative as well as changes in the fair value of the
hedged item attributable to the hedged risk each period in
earnings. If we terminate a firm commitment designated as the
hedged item in a fair value hedge or it otherwise no longer
qualifies as the hedged item, we recognize any asset or
liability previously recorded as part of the hedged item
currently in earnings.

For derivatives designated as a hedge of a
forecasted transaction or of the variability of cash flows
related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedges),
the effective portion of the change in fair value of the
derivative is reported in other comprehensive income and
reclassified into earnings in the period in which the hedged
item affects earnings. Amounts excluded from the effectiveness
calculation and any ineffective portion of the change in fair
value of the derivative are recognized currently in earnings.
Gains or losses deferred in accumulated other comprehensive
income associated with terminated derivatives, derivatives that
cease to be highly effective hedges and cash flow hedges that
have been otherwise discontinued remain in accumulated other
comprehensive income until the hedged item affects earnings or
it is probable that the hedged item will not occur by the end of
the originally specified time period or within two months
thereafter. Forecasted transactions designated as the hedged
item in a cash flow hedge are regularly evaluated to assess
whether they continue to be probable of occurring. When it is
probable the forecasted transaction will not occur, any gain or
loss deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income is
recognized in earnings at that time.

For derivatives held for trading and non-trading
purposes not designated as a hedge, we reported changes in fair
value currently in earnings. As discussed in the

Description
of business

section of this Note, in 2003, we are no longer
significantly engaged in trading activities. We now primarily
enter into derivative contracts to reduce risk associated with
our assets and non-derivative energy-related contracts, such as
tolling, full requirements, storage and transportation
contracts. However, we still maintain certain derivatives
entered into for trading purposes. In Issue No. 02-3, the
EITF reached a consensus that gains and losses on derivative
instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 133 should be
shown net in the income statement if the derivative instruments
are held for trading purposes. On July 31, 2003, the EITF
reached a consensus on Issue No. 03-11, “Reporting
Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are
Subject to FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and Not Held for
Trading Purposes as Defined in Issue No. 02-3 Issues
Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading
Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk
Management Activities.” In this issue, the EITF concluded
that determining whether realized gains and losses on physically
settled derivative contracts not held for trading purposes
should be reported in the income statement on a gross or net
basis is a matter of judgment that depended on the relevant
facts and circumstances. Applying these two consensuses, we
report unrealized gains and losses on all derivative contracts
not designated as hedges on a net basis in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations. We also report realized gains and
losses on all derivative contracts not designated as hedges that
settled financially on a net basis. We apply the indicators
provided in Issue No. 99-19, “Reporting Revenue Gross
as a Principal versus Net as an Agent” to determine the
proper treatment for derivative and non-derivative contracts not
designated as hedges that resulted in physical delivery. In
accordance with Issue No. 99-19, we account for realized
revenues and purchase costs for all contracts that result in
physical delivery on a gross basis in the Consolidated Statement
of Operations. EITF 02-3 and Issue No. 03-11 did not
require restatement of prior year amounts.

In the second quarter of 2003, we elected the
normal purchases and normal sales exception available under
SFAS No. 133 on certain derivative contracts held by
our Power segment. We reflected these contracts



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

in current and noncurrent derivative assets and
liabilities at their fair value on the date of the election less
the portion of that fair value allocable to previous settlement
periods.

On January 1, 2001, we recorded a cumulative
effect of an accounting change associated with the adoption of
SFAS No. 133, as amended, to record all derivatives at fair
value. The cumulative effect of the accounting change was not
material to net income (loss), but resulted in a
$95 million reduction of other comprehensive income (net of
income tax benefits of $59 million) related to derivatives
which hedge the variable cash flows of certain forecasted energy
commodity transactions.

Gas pipeline revenues

Revenues for sales of products are recognized in
the period of delivery, and revenues from the transportation of
gas are recognized in the period the service is provided. Gas
Pipeline is subject to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC) regulations and, accordingly, certain revenues
collected may be subject to possible refunds upon final orders
in pending rate cases. Gas Pipeline records estimates of rate
refund liabilities considering Gas Pipeline and other
third-party regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and
estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk weighted, as
well as collection and other risks.

Revenues, other than gas pipeline and energy
    commodity risk management and trading activities

Revenues generally are recorded when services are
performed or products have been delivered.

Additionally, revenues from the domestic
production of natural gas in properties for which
Exploration & Production has an interest with other
producers are recognized based on the actual volumes sold during
the period. Any differences between volumes sold and entitlement
volumes, based on Exploration & Production’s net
working interest, which are determined to be non-recoverable
through remaining production, are recognized as accounts
receivable or accounts payable, as appropriate. Cumulative
differences between volumes sold and entitlement volumes are not
significant.

Impairment
of long-lived assets and investments

We evaluate the long-lived assets of identifiable
business activities for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate, in our management’s judgment, that
the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable.
Beginning January 1, 2002, the impairment evaluation of
tangible long-lived assets is measured pursuant to the
guidelines of SFAS No. 144. When an indicator of
impairment has occurred, we compare our management’s
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the
assets to the carrying value of the assets to determine whether
an impairment has occurred. We apply a probability-weighted
approach to consider the likelihood of different cash flow
assumptions and possible outcomes including selling in the near
term or holding for the remaining estimated useful life. If an
impairment of the carrying value has occurred, we determine the
amount of the impairment recognized in the financial statements
by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss
for the amount that the carrying value exceeds the estimated
fair value.

For assets identified to be disposed of in the
future and considered held for sale in accordance with
SFAS No. 144, we compare the carrying value to the
estimated fair value less the cost to sell to determine if
recognition of an impairment is required. Until the assets are
disposed of, the estimated fair value, which includes estimated
cash flows from operations until the assumed date of sale, is
redetermined when related events or circumstances change.

We evaluate our investments for impairment when
events or changes in circumstances indicate, in our
management’s judgement, that the carrying value of such
investments may have experienced an other-than-temporary decline
in value. When evidence of loss in value has occurred, we
compare our estimate of fair value of the investment to the
carrying value of the investment to determine whether an
impairment has



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

occurred. If the estimated fair value is less
than the carrying value and we consider the decline in value to
be other than temporary, the excess of the carrying value over
the fair value is recognized in the financial statements as an
impairment.

Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our
management’s estimate of undiscounted future cash flows
used to determine recoverability of an asset and the estimate of
an asset’s fair value used to calculate the amount of
impairment to recognize. Additionally, our management’s
judgment is used to determine the probability of sale with
respect to assets considered for disposal pursuant to our
announced strategy of selling assets as a significant source of
liquidity. The use of alternate judgments and/or assumptions
could result in the recognition of different levels of
impairment charges in the financial statements.

Capitalization of interest

We capitalize interest on major projects during
construction. Interest is capitalized on borrowed funds and,
where regulation by the FERC exists, on internally generated
funds. The rates used by regulated companies are calculated in
accordance with FERC rules. Rates used by unregulated companies
are based on the average interest rate on debt. Interest
capitalized on internally generated funds, as permitted by FERC
rules, is included in non-operating other income
(expense) — net.

Employee stock-based awards

Employee stock-based awards are accounted for
under Accounting Principles Board Opinion
(APB) No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees” and related interpretations. Fixed-plan common
stock options generally do not result in compensation expense
because the exercise price of the stock options equals the
market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. The
plans are described more fully in Note 14. The following
table illustrates the effect on net loss and loss per share if
we had applied the fair value recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.”

Pro forma amounts for 2003 include compensation
expense from awards of our company stock made in 2003, 2002 and
2001. Also included in the 2003 pro forma expense is
$2 million of incremental expense associated with a stock
option exchange program (see Note 14). Pro forma amounts
for 2002 include compensation expense from awards made in 2002
and 2001 and from certain awards made in 1999. Pro forma



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

amounts for 2001 include compensation expense
from awards made in 2001 and from certain awards made in 1999.

Since compensation expense from stock options is
recognized over the future years’ vesting period for pro
forma disclosure purposes and additional awards are generally
made each year, pro forma amounts may not be representative of
future years’ amounts.

Income taxes

We include the operations of our subsidiaries in
our consolidated tax return. Deferred income taxes are computed
using the liability method and are provided on all temporary
differences between the financial basis and the tax basis of our
assets and liabilities. Our management’s judgment and
income tax assumptions are used to determine the levels, if any,
of valuation allowances associated with deferred tax assets.

Earnings (loss) per share

Basic earnings (loss) per share is based on the
sum of the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
and issuable restricted and vested deferred shares. Diluted
earnings (loss) per share includes any dilutive effect of stock
options, unvested deferred shares and, for applicable periods
presented, convertible preferred stock and convertible debt,
unless otherwise noted.

Foreign currency translation

Certain of our foreign subsidiaries and equity
method investees use their local currency as their functional
currency. These foreign currencies include the Canadian dollar,
British pound and Euro. Assets and liabilities of certain
foreign subsidiaries and equity investees are translated at the
spot rate in effect at the applicable reporting date, and the
combined statements of operations and our share of the results
of operations of our equity affiliates are translated into the
U.S. dollar at the average exchange rates in effect during
the applicable period. The resulting cumulative translation
adjustment is recorded as a separate component of other
comprehensive income (loss).

Transactions denominated in currencies other than
the functional currency are recorded based on exchange rates at
the time such transactions arise. Subsequent changes in exchange
rates result in transactions gains and losses which are
reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

Issuance of equity of consolidated
    subsidiary

Sales of common stock by a consolidated
subsidiary are accounted for as capital transactions with the
adjustment to capital in excess of par value. No gain or loss is
recognized on these transactions.

Securitizations and transfers of financial
    instruments

Through July 2002, we had agreements to sell, on
an ongoing basis, certain of our trade accounts receivable
through revolving securitization structures under which we
retained servicing responsibilities as well as a subordinate
interest in the transferred receivables. These agreements
expired in July 2002 and were not renewed. We accounted for the
securitization of trade accounts receivable in accordance with
SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for Transfers and
Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities.” As a result, the related receivables were
removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheet and a retained
interest was recorded for the amount of receivables sold in
excess of cash received.

We determined the fair value of our retained
interests based on the present value of future expected cash
flows using our management’s best estimate of various
factors, including credit loss experience and discount rates
commensurate with the risks involved. These assumptions were
updated periodically based on actual



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

results, thus the estimated credit loss and
discount rates utilized were materially consistent with
historical performance. The fair value of the servicing
responsibility was estimated based on internal costs, which
approximate market. Costs associated with the sale of
receivables are included in nonoperating other income
(expense) — net in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations.

Recent accounting standards

The FASB issued SFAS No. 146,
“Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal
Activities.” This Statement addresses financial accounting
and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal
activities and nullifies EITF Issue No. 94-3,
“Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination
Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain
Costs Incurred in a Restructuring).” Under this Statement,
a liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal
activity is recognized at fair value when the liability is
incurred rather than at the date of an entity’s commitment
to an exit plan. The provisions of this Statement are effective
for exit or disposal activities that are initiated after
December 31, 2002; hence, initial adoption of this
Statement on January 1, 2003, did not have any impact on
our results of operations or financial position.

The FASB issued SFAS No. 148,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation —
Transition and Disclosure,” which is effective for fiscal
years ending after December 15, 2002.
SFAS No. 148 amends SFAS No. 123 to permit
two additional transition methods for a voluntary change to the
fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation from the intrinsic method under APB No. 25.
The prospective method of transition under
SFAS No. 123 is an option to the entities that adopt
the recognition provisions under this statement in a fiscal year
beginning before December 15, 2003. In addition, this
statement amends the disclosure requirements of
SFAS No. 123 to require prominent disclosures in both
annual and interim financial statements concerning the method of
accounting used for stock-based employee compensation and the
effects of that method on reported results of operations. Under
this statement, pro forma disclosures are required in a specific
tabular format in the “Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies.” We have applied the disclosure requirements of
this statement effective December 31, 2002. The adoption
had no effect on our consolidated financial position or results
of operations. We continue to account for our stock-based
compensation plans under APB Opinion No. 25. See

Employee stock-based awards.

FASB has announced it will
be issuing an Exposure Draft on equity-based compensation. In
deliberations on this matter, the FASB has concluded that
equity-based compensation awards to employees results in an
expense to the employer that should be recognized in the income
statement.

The FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 45,
“Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements
for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others.” This Interpretation requires the fair value of
guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002, be
initially recognized by the guarantor at the inception of the
guarantee, and expands the disclosure requirements for
guarantees. Initial adoption of this Interpretation did not have
any impact on our results of operations or financial position.
The expanded disclosure requirements have been presented in the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation
No. 46, “Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities.” The Interpretation defines a variable interest
entity (VIE) as an entity in which equity investors do not
have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or
do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance
its activities without additional subordinated financial support
from other parties. The investments or other interests that will
absorb portions of the VIE’s expected losses if they occur
or receive portions of the VIE’s expected residual returns
if they occur are called variable interests. Variable interests
may include, but are not limited to, equity interests, debt
instruments, beneficial interests, derivative instruments and
guarantees. The Interpretation requires an entity to consolidate
a VIE if that entity will absorb a majority of the VIE’s
expected losses if they occur, receive a majority of the
VIE’s expected residual returns if they occur, or both. If
no party will absorb a majority of the expected losses or
expected residual returns, no party will



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

consolidate the VIE. The Interpretation also
requires disclosure of significant variable interests in
unconsolidated VIE’s. The Interpretation is effective for
all new variable interest entities created or acquired after
January 31, 2003. For variable interest entities created or
acquired prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of the
Interpretation were initially to be effective for the first
interim or annual period ending after June 15, 2003.
However, in October 2003, the FASB delayed the required
effective date of the Interpretation on those entities to the
first period beginning after December 15, 2003.
Additionally, in December 2003, the FASB issued a revision to
the Interpretation to clarify certain provisions and to exempt
certain entities from its requirements. The revised
Interpretation will require full implementation in the first
quarter of 2004. We adopted the original Interpretation in 2003
with no material effect to the consolidated financial
statements. The effect of the adoption of the revised
Interpretation is not expected to be material to the
consolidated financial statements.

The FASB issued revised SFAS No. 132,
“Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits.” This Statement addresses
disclosure requirements for pensions and other postretirement
benefits. The provisions of this Statement retain the disclosure
requirements of the previously issued SFAS No. 132 and
expand the disclosure requirements to include information
describing types of plan assets, investment strategy,
measurement date, plan obligations and cash flows. Additionally,
the Statement requires disclosure of the components of net
periodic benefit cost recognized during interim periods. This
Statement is effective for financial statements with fiscal
years and interim periods ending after December 15, 2003,
except for the disclosure of estimated future benefit payments,
which is effective for fiscal years ending after June 15,
2004.

EITF Issue No. 01-8, “Determining
Whether An Arrangement Contains a Lease,” became effective
on July 1, 2003, and provides guidance for determining
whether certain contracts such as transportation, storage, load
serving, and tolling agreements are executory service
arrangements or leases pursuant to SFAS No. 13. A
prospective transition is provided for whereby the consensus is
to be applied to arrangements consummated or modified after
July 1, 2003. Our review indicates that certain of
Power’s tolling agreements could be considered leases under
the consensus if the tolling agreements are modified after
July 1, 2003. If such tolling agreements are deemed to be
capital leases, the net present value of the demand payments
would be reported on the balance sheet consistent with debt as
an obligation under capital lease, and as an asset in property,
plant and equipment.

The SEC staff, in a letter to the EITF Chairman,
raised the issue of classification of leased mineral rights, for
companies subject to SFAS No. 19

“Financial
Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing
Companies”

that acquire leased mineral rights.
Specifically, the SEC staff has stated its view that leased
mineral rights meet the definition of an intangible asset under
SFAS No. 141

“Business Combinations”

and are thus subject to the disclosure requirements of
SFAS No. 142

“Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets.”

At December 31, 2003 and 2002, our
Exploration & Production segment had net leased mineral
rights of $1.9 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively.
The leased mineral rights would continue to be amortized over
their remaining useful life, where appropriate. The effect of
such a reclassification, if required, is not expected to affect
our Statement of Operations or Statement of Cash Flows.

Note 2.     Discontinued
operations

During 2002, we began the process of selling
certain assets and/or businesses to address liquidity issues.
The businesses discussed below represent components that have
been sold or approved for sale by our Board of Directors as of
December 31, 2003. Therefore, their results of operations
(including any impairments, gains or losses), financial position
and cash flows have been reflected in the consolidated financial
statements and notes as discontinued operations.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Summarized results of discontinued
    operations

Summarized results of discontinued operations for
the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001 are as
follows:

Summarized assets and liabilities of
    discontinued operations

Summarized assets and liabilities of discontinued
operations as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, are as follows:



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Held for sale at December 31,

Alaska refining, retail and pipeline
    operations

On November 17, 2003, we entered into
agreements to sell our Alaska refinery, retail and pipeline
assets for approximately $265 million in cash, subject to
various closing adjustments. The transactions are expected to
close in the first quarter of 2004 following the completion of
various closing conditions.

Throughout the sales negotiation process, we
regularly reassessed the estimated fair value of these assets
based on information obtained from the sales negotiations using
a probability-weighted approach. As a result, impairment charges
of $8 million and $18.4 million were recorded during
2003 and 2002, respectively. These impairments are included in
(impairments) and gain (loss) on sales in the preceding
table of summarized results of discontinued operations. These
operations were part of the previously reported Petroleum
Services segment.

Gulf Liquids New River Project LLC

During second-quarter 2003, our Board of
Directors approved a plan authorizing management to negotiate
and facilitate a sale of the assets of Gulf Liquids New River
Project LLC (Gulf Liquids). We recognized impairment charges
totaling $108.7 million during 2003 to reduce the carrying
cost of the long-lived assets to estimated fair value less costs
to sell the assets. These charges are included in (impairments)
and gain (loss) on sales in the preceding table of summarized
results of discontinued operations. We estimated fair value
based on a probability-weighted analysis of various scenarios
including expected sales prices, salvage valuations and
discounted cash-flows. We expect to complete the sale of these
operations within one year of the Board’s approval. These
operations were part of our Midstream segment.

2003 completed transactions

Canadian liquids operations

During 2003, we completed the sales of certain
gas processing, natural gas liquids fractionation, storage and
distribution operations in western Canada and at our Redwater,
Alberta plant for total proceeds of $246 million in cash.
We recognized pre-tax gains totaling $92.1 million in 2003
on the sales which are included in (impairments) and gain
(loss) on sales in the preceding table of summarized results of
discontinued operations. These operations were part of our
Midstream segment.

Soda ash operations

On September 9, 2003, we completed the sale
of our soda ash mining facility located in Colorado. The
December 31, 2002 carrying value reflected the then
estimated fair value less cost to sell. During 2003, ongoing
sale negotiations continued to provide new information regarding
estimated fair value, and, as a result, we recognized additional
impairment charges of $17.4 million in 2003. We also
recognized a loss on the sale in 2003 of $4.2 million.
These impairments, the loss on the sale and previous impairments
of $133.5 million in 2002 and $170 million in 2001 are
included in (impairments) and gain (loss) on sales in the
preceding table of



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

summarized results of discontinued operations.
The soda ash operations were part of the previously reported
International segment.

Williams Energy Partners

On June 17, 2003, we completed the sale of
our 100 percent general partnership interest and
54.6 percent limited partner investment in Williams Energy
Partners for $512 million in cash and assumption by the
purchasers of $570 million in debt. In December 2003, we
received additional cash proceeds of $20 million following
the occurrence of a contingent event. We recognized a total
pre-tax gain of $310.8 million on the sale during 2003,
including the $20 million of additional proceeds, all of
which is included in (impairments) and gain (loss) on sales
in the preceding table of summarized results of discontinued
operations. We deferred an additional $113 million
associated with our indemnifications of the purchasers for a
variety of matters, including obligations that may arise
associated with existing environmental contamination relating to
operations prior to April 2002 and identified prior to April
2008 (see Note 16).

Bio-energy facilities

On May 30, 2003, we completed the sale of
our bio-energy operations for $59 million in cash. During
2003, we recognized an additional pre-tax loss on the sale of
$5.4 million. We recorded impairment charges totaling
$195.7 million, including $23 million related to
goodwill, during 2002, to reduce the carrying cost to our
estimate of fair value, less cost to sell, at that time. Both
the additional loss and impairment charges are included in
(impairments) and gain (loss) on sales in the preceding table of
summarized results of discontinued operations. These operations
were part of the previously reported Petroleum Services segment.

Natural gas properties

On May 30, 2003, we completed the sale of
natural gas exploration and production properties in the Raton
Basin in southern Colorado and the Hugoton Embayment in
southwestern Kansas. This sale included all of our interests
within these basins. We recognized a $39.7 million gain on
the sale during 2003. The gain is included in (impairments) and
gain (loss) on sales in the preceding table of summarized
results of discontinued operations. These properties were part
of the Exploration & Production segment.

Texas Gas

On May 16, 2003, we completed the sale of
Texas Gas Transmission Corporation for $795 million in cash
and the assumption by the purchaser of $250 million in
existing Texas Gas debt. We recorded a $109 million
impairment charge in first-quarter 2003 reflecting the excess of
the carrying cost of the long-lived assets over our estimate of
fair value based on our assessment of the expected sales price
pursuant to the purchase and sale agreement. The impairment
charge is included in (impairments) and gain (loss) on
sales in the preceding table of summarized results of
discontinued operations. No significant gain or loss was
recognized on the subsequent sale. Texas Gas was a segment
within Gas Pipeline.

Midsouth Refinery and related assets

On March 4, 2003, we completed the sale of
our refinery and other related operations located in Memphis,
Tennessee for $455 million in cash. We had previously
written these assets down by $240.8 million to their
estimated fair value less cost to sell at December 31,
2002. We recognized a pre-tax gain on sale of $4.7 million
in the first quarter of 2003. During the second quarter of 2003,
we recognized a $24.7 million pre-tax gain on the sale of
an earn-out agreement that we retained in the sale of the
refinery. The 2002 impairment charge and subsequent gains are
included in (impairments) and gain (loss) on sales in the
preceding table of summarized results of discontinued
operations. These operations were part of the previously
reported Petroleum Services segment.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Williams travel centers

On February 27, 2003, we completed the sale
of our travel centers for approximately $189 million in
cash. We had previously written these assets down by
$146.6 million in 2002 and $14.7 million in 2001 to
their estimated fair value less cost to sell at
December 31, 2002. These impairments are included in
(impairments) and gain (loss) on sales in the preceding table of
summarized results of discontinued operations. We did not
recognize a significant gain or loss on the sale. These
operations were part of the previously reported Petroleum
Services segment.

2002 Completed transactions

Central

On November 15, 2002, we completed the sale
of our Central natural gas pipeline for $380 million in
cash and the assumption by the purchaser of $175 million in
debt. Impairment charges totaling $91.3 million during 2002
are reflected in (impairments) and gain (loss) on sales in
the preceding table of summarized results of discontinued
operations. Central was a segment within Gas Pipeline.

Mid-America and Seminole Pipelines

On August 1, 2002, we completed the sale of
our 98 percent interest in Mid-America Pipeline and
98 percent of our 80 percent ownership interest in
Seminole Pipeline for $1.2 billion. The sale generated net
cash proceeds of $1.15 billion. The preceding table of
summarized results of discontinued operations,
(impairments) and gain (loss) on sales includes a pre-tax
gain of $301.7 million during 2002 and an
$11.4 million reduction of the gain during 2003. These
assets were part of the Midstream segment.

Kern River

On March 27, 2002, we completed the sale of
our Kern River pipeline for $450 million in cash and the
assumption by the purchaser of $510 million in debt. As
part of the agreement, $32.5 million of the purchase price
was contingent upon Kern River receiving a certificate from the
FERC to construct and operate a future expansion. We received
the certificate in July 2002, and recognized the contingent
payment plus interest as income from discontinued operations in
third-quarter 2002. Included as a component of
(impairments) and gain (loss) on sales in the preceding
table of summarized results of discontinued operations is a
pre-tax loss of $6.4 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. Kern River was a segment within Gas
Pipeline.

WilTel

Spinoff and related information

On March 30, 2001, our Board of Directors
approved a tax-free spinoff of WilTel to our shareholders. On
April 23, 2001, we distributed 398.5 million shares,
or approximately 95 percent of our WilTel common stock, to
holders of our common stock. Accordingly, the results of
operations, financial position and cash flows for WilTel have
been reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements and notes as discontinued operations.

In an effort to strengthen WilTel’s capital
structure, prior to the spinoff we took the following steps:

•

We contributed an outstanding promissory note
    from WilTel of approximately $975 million.

•

We contributed certain other assets, including
    the Williams Technology Center (Technology Center) and other
    ancillary assets under construction. We also committed to
    complete construction of the Technology Center. Later in 2001,
    we repurchased the Technology Center and three corporate
    aircraft from WilTel for $276 million. We then leased these
    assets back to WilTel.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

We provided indirect credit support for
    $1.4 billion of the WCG Note Trust Notes.

•

We provided a guarantee of WilTel’s
    obligations under a 1998 asset defeasance program
    (ADP) transaction in which WilTel entered into a lease
    agreement covering a portion of its fiber-optic network. WilTel
    had an option to purchase the covered network assets during the
    lease term at an amount approximating lessor’s cost of
    $750 million.

2001 post spinoff and accounting

Prior to filing our 2001 Annual Report on
Form 10-K, WilTel announced that it might seek to
reorganize under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result, we
determined that it was probable we would be unable to fully
recover certain receivables and our investment in WilTel. We
also concluded that it was probable that we would be required to
perform under certain guarantees and payment obligations. Using
the information available prior to March 7, 2002 and under
the circumstances, we developed an estimated range of loss
related to our total WilTel exposure. As part of this
evaluation, we considered our position as an unsecured creditor,
the fair value of the leased assets securing the Technology
Center lease, likely recoveries from a successful reorganization
process under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code,
and the enterprise value of WilTel. We also received assistance
from external legal counsel and an external financial and
restructuring advisor. At that time, we believed that no loss
within the range was more probable than another. Accordingly, we
recorded the $2.05 billion minimum amount of the range of
loss. This is reported in the 2001 Consolidated Statement of
Operations as a $1.84 billion pre-tax charge to
discontinued operations and a $213 million pre-tax charge
to continuing operations.

The $1.84 billion pre-tax charge to
discontinued operations includes portions of the following items:

•

Indirect credit support for $1.4 billion of
    WCG Note Trust Notes and related interest.

•

Guarantee of the ADP transaction.

The $213 million pre-tax charge to
continuing operations includes portions of the following items:

•

$106 million of receivables from services
    prior to the spinoff

•

$269 million receivable for the Technology
    Center lease

•

the remaining investment in WilTel common stock,
    which had previously been written down by $70.9 million
    earlier in 2001

2002 developments and accounting

In 2002, we acquired all of the WCG Note Trust
Notes by exchanging $1.4 billion of our Senior Unsecured
9.25 percent Notes due March 2004. WilTel was indirectly
obligated to reimburse us for any payments we were required to
make in connection with the WCG Note Trust Notes.

On March 29, 2002, we funded the
$754 million purchase price related to WilTel’s
March 8, 2002 exercise of its option to purchase the
covered network assets under the ADP transaction. The payment
entitled us to an unsecured note from WilTel for the same amount.

On April 22, 2002, WilTel filed for
bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code. On October 15, 2002, WilTel
consummated its reorganization plan. Under this plan:

•

our common stock ownership in WilTel was
    cancelled,

•

we recovered $180 million of claims against
    WilTel through the sale of those claims to WilTel’s new
    parent organization, and



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

we sold the Technology Center back to WilTel in
    exchange for two promissory notes due in seven and one-half
    years and four years and secured by a mortgage on the Technology
    Center.

During 2002, we recognized additional pre-tax
charges of $268.7 million in continuing operations related
to the recovery and settlement of our receivables and claims
against WilTel.

Status at December 31, 2003

At December 31, 2003, we have a
$110.8 million receivable from WilTel for the promissory
notes relating to the sale of the Technology Center pursuant to
the WilTel reorganization plan. The receivable is included in
other assets and deferred charges.

We have provided guarantees in the event of
nonpayment by WilTel on certain lease performance obligations of
WilTel that extend through 2042 and have a maximum potential
exposure of approximately $51 million at December 31,
2003. Our exposure declines systematically throughout the
remaining term of WilTel’s obligations. The carrying value
of these guarantees is approximately $46 million at
December 31, 2003 and is recorded as a non-current
liability.

Note 3.

Investing activities

Investing income (loss)

Investing income (loss) for the years ended
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, is as follows:

*

Items also included in segment profit.

Equity earnings for the year ended
December 31, 2002, includes a benefit of $27.4 million
for a contractual construction completion fee received by one of
our equity affiliates whose operations are accounted for under
the equity method of accounting. This equity affiliate served as
the general contractor on the Gulfstream pipeline project for
Gulfstream Natural Gas System (Gulfstream), an interstate
natural gas pipeline subject to FERC regulations and an equity
affiliate of ours. The fee paid by Gulfstream was for the early
completion during second-quarter 2002 of the construction of
Gulfstream’s pipeline. It was capitalized by Gulfstream as
property, plant and equipment and is included in
Gulfstream’s rate base to be recovered in future revenues.

Income (loss) from investments for the year ended
December 31, 2003, includes:

•

a $43.1 million impairment of our investment
    in equity and debt securities of Longhorn Partners Pipeline
    L.P., which is included in the Other segment;

•

a $14.1 million impairment of our equity
    interest in Aux Sable, which is included in the Midstream
    segment;



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

a $13.5 million gain on the sale of stock in
    eSpeed Inc., which is included in the Power segment; and

•

an $11.1 million gain on sale of our equity
    interest in West Texas LPG Pipeline, L.P. which is included in
    the Midstream segment.

Income (loss) from investments for the year ended
December 31, 2002, includes:

Income (loss) from investments for the year ended
December 31, 2001, includes:

•

a $27.5 million gain on the sale of our
    limited partnership interest in Northern Border Partners, L.P.,
    which is included in the Gas Pipeline segment; and

•

$23.3 million of write-downs of certain
    investments which are included in the Power segment.

Impairments of cost based investments for the
year ended December 31, 2003, includes:

•

a $13.5 million impairment of investment in
    ReserveCo, a company holding phosphate reserves, and

•

a $13.2 million impairment of investment in
    Algar Telecom S.A.

The 2002 and 2001 impairments of cost based
investments relate primarily to various international
investments.

Interest income for the year ended
December 31, 2003, includes approximately $34 million
of interest income at Power as the result of certain recent FERC
proceedings.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Investments

Investments at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
are as follows:

In December 2003, our Midstream subsidiary made
an additional $127 million investment in Discovery Pipeline
which was subsequently used by Discovery Pipeline to repay
maturing debt. All owners contributed amounts equal to their
ownership percentage so our 50 percent ownership in
Discovery remained unchanged. Also during 2003, Midstream sold
its investments in four pipelines that had a combined book value
of approximately $63 million at December 31, 2002.

During February 2004, we were a party to a
recapitalization plan completed by Longhorn Partners Pipeline,
L.P. (Longhorn). As a result of this plan, we sold a portion of
our equity investment in Longhorn for $11.4 million,
received $58 million in repayment of a portion of our
advances to Longhorn and converted the remaining advances,
including accrued interest, into preferred equity interests in
Longhorn. These preferred equity interests are subordinate to
the preferred interests held by the new investors. No gain or
loss was recognized on this transaction.

Dividends and distributions received from
companies carried on the equity basis were $21 million,
$81 million and $51 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. The $27.4 million Gulfstream construction
completion fee described previously is included in the 2002
distributions.

Guarantees on behalf of
    investees

We have guaranteed commercial letters of credit
totaling $17 million on behalf of ACCROVEN. These expire in
January 2005, have no carrying value and are fully
collateralized with cash.

In connection with the construction of a joint
venture pipeline project, we guaranteed, through a put
agreement, certain portions of the joint venture’s project
financing in the event of nonpayment by the joint



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

venture. Our potential liability under this
guarantee ranges from zero percent to 100 percent of the
outstanding project financing, depending on our ability and the
other project members’ ability to meet certain performance
criteria. As of December 31, 2003, the total outstanding
project financing is $31.7 million. Our maximum potential
liability is the full amount of the financing, but based on the
current status of the project, it is likely that any obligation
would be limited to 50 percent of the outstanding
financing. As additional borrowings are made under the project
financing facility, our potential exposure will increase. This
guarantee expires in March 2005, and we have not accrued any
amounts at December 31, 2003.

We have provided guarantees on behalf of certain
partnerships in which we have an equity ownership interest.
These generally guarantee operating performance measures and the
maximum potential future exposure cannot be determined. These
guarantees continue until we withdraw from the partnerships. No
amounts have been accrued at December 31, 2003.

Note 4.

Asset sales, impairments and other
    accruals

Significant gains or losses from asset sales,
impairments and other accruals included in other (income)
expense — net within segment costs and expenses for
the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, are as
follows:



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Power

In June 2002, we announced our intent to exit the
Power business. As a result, Power pursued efforts to sell all
or portions of our power, natural gas, and crude and refined
products portfolios in the latter half of 2002 and in 2003.
Based on bids received in these sales efforts, we impaired
certain assets and projects in 2002. During 2003, we continued
our focus on exiting the Power business and, as a result,
impaired certain assets.

California Rate Refund and Other Accrual
Adjustments.

In addition to the
$19.5 million charge included in other (income)
expense — net within segment costs and expenses for
2003, a $13.8 million charge is recorded within costs and
operating expenses. These two amounts, totaling
$33.3 million, are for California rate refund liability and
other accrual adjustments and relate to power marketing
activities in California during 2000 and 2001. See Note 16
for further discussion.

Goodwill.

The fair
value of the Power reporting unit used to calculate the goodwill
impairment loss in 2002 was based on the estimated fair value of
the trading portfolio inclusive of the fair value of contracts
with affiliates. In 2002, the trading portfolio was reflected at
fair value in the financial statements and the affiliate
contracts were not. The fair value of the affiliate contracts
was estimated using a discounted cash flow model with natural
gas pricing assumptions based on current market information.

During 2003, we continued to focus on exiting the
Power business. Because of this and current market conditions in
which this business operates, we evaluated Power’s
remaining goodwill for impairment. In estimating the fair value
of the Power reporting unit, we considered our derivative
portfolio which is carried at fair value on the balance sheet
and our non-derivative portfolio which is no longer carried at
fair value on the balance sheet. Because of the significant
negative fair value of certain of our non-derivative contracts,
we may be unable to realize our carrying value of this reporting
unit. As a result, we recognized a $45 million impairment
of the remaining goodwill within Power during 2003.

Generation
Facilities.

The 2003 impairment
relates to the Hazelton generation facility. Fair value was
estimated using future cash flows based on current market
information and discounted at a risk adjusted rate. The 2002
impairment was related to the Worthington generation facility.
Fair value was estimated based on expected proceeds from the
sale of the facility, which closed in first-quarter 2003.

Loss Accruals and Impairment of Other Power
Related Assets.

The 2002 loss accruals
and impairments of other power related assets were recorded
pursuant to reducing activities associated with the distributive
power generation business.

Guarantee Loss Accruals and
Write-Offs.

The 2002 guarantee loss
accruals and write-offs within Power of $56.2 million
includes accruals for commitments for certain assets that were
previously planned to be used in power projects, write-offs
associated with a terminated power plant project and a
$13.2 million reversal of loss accruals related to the
wind-down of our mezzanine lending business.

Midstream
Gas & Liquids

Canadian Assets.

Approximately $38 million of the 2002 Canadian asset
impairment reflects a reduction of carrying cost to
management’s estimate of fair market value for our natural
gas liquid extraction plants, determined primarily from
information available from efforts to sell these assets in a
single transaction. The balance is associated with an olefin
fractionation facility whose carrying costs were determined to
be not fully recoverable. Fair value was estimated using
discounted future cash flows.

During 2003, we temporarily suspended our efforts
to sell the natural gas liquid extraction plants pending certain
commercial contract renegotiations expected to be completed
during 2004. Thus, these assets were reevaluated individually
for impairment. This resulted in an additional impairment of
certain of the natural gas liquid extraction plants to fair
value. We estimated fair value using an earnings multiple
applied to projected operating results. This estimate was
validated by a range of discounted future cash flows for the
assets.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 5.

Provision (benefit) for income taxes

The provision (benefit) for income taxes from
continuing operations includes:

Reconciliations from the provision (benefit) for
income taxes from continuing operations at the federal statutory
rate to the provision (benefit) for income taxes are as follows:



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Significant components of deferred tax
liabilities and assets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002,
are as follows:

Valuation allowances at December 31, 2003
serve to reduce the recognized tax benefit associated with
foreign asset impairments and foreign carryovers to an amount
that will, more likely than not, be realized. Valuation
allowances at December 31, 2002 serve to reduce the
recognized tax benefit associated with federal capital loss
carryovers, foreign asset impairments and foreign carryovers to
an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized. The
valuation allowance decreased $89 million and
$23 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Utilization of foreign operating loss carryovers
reduced the provision for income taxes during 2003 by
$19 million.

Undistributed earnings of certain consolidated
foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 2003, amounted to
approximately $45 million. No provision for deferred U.S.
income taxes has been made for these subsidiaries because we
intend to permanently reinvest such earnings in those foreign
operations.

The impact of foreign operations on the effective
tax rate increased during 2002 due to the recognition of
U.S. tax on foreign dividend distributions and recording of
a financial impairment on certain foreign assets for which a
valuation allowance was established.

Federal net operating loss carryovers, charitable
contribution carryovers, and capital loss carryovers of
$204 million, $58 million and $68 million,
respectively, at the end of 2003 are expected to be utilized
prior to expiration in 2007 through 2022.

Cash refunds for income taxes (net of payments)
were $88 million in 2003. Cash payments for income taxes
(net of refunds) were $36 million and $87 million in
2002 and 2001, respectively.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

During the course of audits of our business by
domestic and foreign tax authorities, we frequently face
challenges regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges
include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions
and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In
evaluating the liability associated with our various filing
positions, we record a liability for probable tax contingencies.
In association with this liability, we record an estimate of
related interest as a component of our current tax provision.
The impact of this accrual is included within Other —
net in our reconciliation of the tax provision to the federal
statutory rate.

Note 6.

Earnings (loss) per share

Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per common
share for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001,
are as follows:

For the year ended December 31, 2003,
approximately 3.6 million weighted-average stock options,
approximately 6.4 million weighted average shares related
to the assumed conversion of 9.875 percent cumulative
convertible preferred stock, approximately 2.5 million
weighted-average unvested deferred shares and approximately
16.5 million weighted-average shares related to the assumed
conversion of convertible debentures, as well as the related
interest, that otherwise would have been included, have been
excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per common
share as their inclusion would be antidilutive. The preferred
stock was redeemed in June 2003.

For the year ended December 31, 2002,
approximately 666 thousand weighted-average stock options,
approximately 11.3 million weighted-average shares related
to the assumed conversion of the 9.875 percent cumulative
convertible preferred stock and approximately 3.6 million
weighted-average unvested deferred shares, that otherwise would
have been included, have been excluded from the computation of
diluted earnings per common share as their inclusion would be
antidilutive.

Additionally, approximately 15.0 million,
38.7 million and 15.3 million options to purchase
shares of common stock with weighted-average exercise prices of
$22.77, $19.90 and $36.12, respectively, were outstanding on
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, but have
been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per
share. Inclusion of these shares would have been antidilutive,
as the exercise prices of the options exceeded the average
market prices of the common shares for the respective years.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 7.

Employee benefit plans

The following table presents the changes in
benefit obligations and plan assets for pension benefits and
other postretirement benefits for the years indicated. It also
presents a reconciliation of the funded status of these benefits
to the amount recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at
December 31 of each year indicated. The annual measurement
date for our plans is December 31. Prior year amounts have
been restated to exclude those benefit plans where we will no
longer serve as sponsor related to those operations reported as
discontinued operations (see Note 1). Changes in the
obligations or assets of continuing plans associated with the
transfer of such obligations or assets in a sale or planned sale
reflected as discontinued operations have been reflected as
divestitures in the following tables.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet consist of:

The accumulated benefit obligation for pension
benefit plans was $720.2 million and $680.5 million at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

Information for pension plans with projected
benefit obligation and accumulated benefit obligation in excess
of plan assets as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 is as
follows:

Net pension and other postretirement benefit
expense for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and
2001, consists of the following:



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The $(41.9) million and $13.5 million
settlement/ curtailment expense (credit) included in net
periodic postretirement benefit expense in 2003 and 2002,
respectively, is included in income (loss) from discontinued
operations in the Consolidated Statement of Operations due to
the settlement/ curtailment directly resulting from the sale of
the operations included within discontinued operations.

The weighted-average assumptions utilized to
determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2003 and
2002 are as follows:

The weighted-average assumptions utilized to
determine net pension and other postretirement benefit expense
for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, are
as follows:

The expected rate of return was determined by our
Investment Committee by combining a review of the historical
returns realized within the portfolio, the investment strategy
included in the Plans’ Investment Policy Statements, and
the capital market projections provided by our independent
investment consultants for the asset classifications in which
the portfolio is invested and the target weightings of each
asset classification.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the health
care cost trend rate for 2004 is 11.8 percent, and
systematically decreases to 5 percent by 2015.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The nonpension postretirement benefit plans which
we sponsor provide for retiree contributions and contain other
cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance. The
accounting for these plans anticipates future cost-sharing that
is consistent with our expressed intent to increase the retiree
contribution rate generally in line with health care cost
increases.

In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug,
Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed
into law. The Act introduces a prescription drug benefit under
Medicare (Medicare Part D) as well as a federal subsidy to
sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a
benefit that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare
Part D. Our health care plan for retirees includes
prescription drug coverage. Management is evaluating the impact
of the Act on the future obligations of the plan. In accordance
with FASB Staff Position No. FAS 106-1, the provisions
of the Act are not reflected in any measures of benefit
obligations or other postretirement benefit expense in the
financial statements or accompanying notes. Authoritative
guidance on the accounting for a federal subsidy is pending and
that guidance, when issued, could require us to change
previously reported information.

The health care cost trend rate assumption has a
significant effect on the amounts reported. A
one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend
rates would have the following effects:

The amount of postretirement benefit costs
deferred as a net regulatory asset at December 31, 2003 and
2002, is $24 million and $57.5 million, respectively,
and is expected to be recovered through rates over approximately
8 years.

Our pension plans’ weighted-average asset
allocations at December 31, 2003 and 2002, by asset
category are as follows:

Included in equity securities are investments in
commingled funds that invest entirely in equity securities and
comprise 38 percent of the pension plans’
weighted-average assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002.
Other assets are comprised primarily of cash and cash
equivalents.

Our investment strategy for the assets within the
pension plans is to maximize investment returns with prudent
levels of risk to meet current and projected financial
requirements of the pension plans. These risks are evaluated, in
part, from an asset-only standpoint as to investment allocation,
investment style and manager selection. Additional risk
perspectives are reviewed considering the allocation of assets
and the structure of the plan liabilities and the combined
effects on the plans. Our investment policy for the pension plan
assets includes a target asset allocation. The target for equity
securities is 84 percent and debt securities and other is
16 percent at December 31, 2003.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Our other postretirement benefits plan
weighted-average asset allocations at December 31, 2003 and
2002, by asset category are as follows:

Included in equity securities are investments in
commingled funds that invest entirely in equity securities and
comprise 22 percent and 17 percent of the other
postretirement benefit plans’ weighted-average assets at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other assets are
comprised primarily of cash and cash equivalents, and insurance
contracts assets.

Our investment strategy for the assets within the
other postretirement benefit plans is to maximize investment
returns with prudent levels of risk in a tax efficient manner to
meet current and projected financial requirements of the other
postretirement benefit plans. These risks are evaluated, in
part, from an asset-only standpoint as to investment allocation,
investment style and manager selection. Additional risk
perspectives are reviewed considering the allocation of assets
and the structure of the plan liabilities and the combined
effects on the plans. Our investment policy for the other
postretirement benefit plan assets includes a target asset
allocation. The target for equity securities is 80 percent
and debt securities and other is 20 percent at
December 31, 2003.

We expect to contribute approximately
$60 million to our pension plans and approximately
$15 million to our other postretirement benefit plans in
2004.

We maintain defined-contribution plans. Costs
related to continuing operations of $18 million,
$39 million and $24 million were recognized for these
plans in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In 2002, these costs
included the cost related to additional contributions to an
employee stock ownership plan resulting from the retirement of
related external debt.

Note 8.

Inventories

Inventories at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
are as follows:



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Effective January 1, 2003, we adopted
EITF 02-3 (see Note 1). As a result, we reduced the
recorded value of natural gas in underground storage by
$37.0 million, refined products by $2.9 million and
natural gas liquids by $1.0 million. Prior to the adoption
of EITF 02-3, we reported inventories related to energy
risk management and trading activities at fair value. Subsequent
to the adoption, these inventories are reported using the
average-cost method.

As of December 31, 2003 less than one
percent of inventories were stated at fair value compared with
52 percent at December 31, 2002. Inventories,
primarily related to energy risk management and trading
activities, stated at fair value at December 31, 2002,
included refined products of $23.1 million, natural gas in
underground storage of $76.2 million, and natural gas
liquids of $90.7 million. Inventories determined using the
LIFO cost method were approximately ten percent and seven
percent of inventories at December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. The remaining inventories were primarily
determined using the average-cost method.

Lower-of-cost or market reductions of
approximately $1.1 million and $18.2 million were
recognized in 2003 and 2002, respectively, related to certain
power-related inventories primarily included in materials and
supplies.

Note 9.

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, is as follows:

Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense
for property, plant and equipment was $669.4 million in
2003, $657.6 million in 2002 and $521.5 million in
2001.

Gross property, plant and equipment includes
approximately $677 million at December 31, 2003 and
$984 million at December 31, 2002 of construction in
progress which is not yet subject to depreciation. In addition,
property of Exploration & Production includes
approximately $675 million at December 31, 2003 and
$774 million at December 31, 2002 of capitalized costs
from the Barrett acquisition related to properties with probable
reserves not yet subject to depletion.

Commitments for construction and acquisition of
property, plant and equipment are approximately $60 million
at December 31, 2003.

Net property, plant and equipment includes
approximately $1.2 billion at December 31, 2003 and
2002, related to amounts in excess of the original cost of the
regulated facilities within Gas Pipeline as a result of our
prior acquisitions. This amount is being amortized over the
estimated remaining useful lives of these assets at the date of
acquisition. Current FERC policy does not permit recovery
through rates for amounts in excess of original cost of
construction.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We adopted SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations” on
January 1, 2003 (see Note 1). As a result, we recorded
a liability of $33.4 million representing the present value
of expected future asset retirement obligations at
January 1, 2003. The asset retirement obligation at
December 31, 2003 is $38.7 million (see Note 1).

Note 10.

Accounts payable and accrued
    liabilities

Under our cash-management system, certain
subsidiaries’ cash accounts reflect credit balances to the
extent checks written have not been presented for payment.
Accounts payable includes approximately $27 million of
these credit balances at December 31, 2003 and
$57 million at December 31, 2002.

Accrued liabilities at December 31, 2003 and
2002, are as follows:



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Note 11.

Debt, leases and banking
    arrangements

Notes payable and long-term
    debt

Notes payable and long-term debt at
December 31, 2003 and 2002, are as follows:

(1)

At December 31, 2003

(2)

Includes $1.1 billion of 6.5% notes
    payable 2007, subject to remarketing in 2004, discussed below.

Notes payable at December 31, 2002, included
a $921.8 million secured note (the RMT note payable), which
was repaid in May 2003 with proceeds from asset sales and from a
new $500 million long-term debt obligation (described below
under “Issuances and Retirements”).

Long-term debt includes $1.1 billion of
6.5 percent notes, payable in 2007, that are subject to
remarketing in 2004. These FELINE PACS include equity forward
contracts which require the holder to purchase shares of our
common stock in 2005. If the 2004 remarketing is unsuccessful
and a second remarketing in February 2005 is unsuccessful, we
could exercise our right to foreclose on the notes in order to
satisfy the obligation of the holders of the equity forward
contracts requiring the holder to purchase our common stock (see
Note 13). This would be a non-cash transaction.

In September 2003, our Board of Directors
authorized us to retire or otherwise prepay up to
$1.8 billion of debt, including $1.4 billion
designated for our senior, unsecured 9.25 percent notes due
March 15, 2004. On October 8, 2003, we announced a
cash tender offer for any and all of our $1.4 billion
senior, unsecured 9.25 percent notes as well as cash tender
offers and consent solicitations for approximately
$241 million of other outstanding notes and debentures. As
of the November 6, 2003, tender offer expiration date, we
had accepted $721 million of the senior, unsecured
9.25 percent notes for purchase. Additionally, we received



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

tenders of notes and deliveries of related
consents from holders of $230 million of the other notes
and debentures. In conjunction with the tendered notes and
related consents, we paid premiums of approximately
$58 million. The premiums, as well as related fees and
expenses, together totaling $66.8 million, were recorded in
fourth-quarter 2003 as a pre-tax charge to earnings.

We are required by certain foreign lenders to
ensure that the interest rates received by them under various
loan agreements are not reduced by taxes by providing for the
reimbursement of any domestic taxes required to be paid by the
foreign lender. The maximum potential amount of future payments
under these indemnifications is based on the related borrowings,
generally continue indefinitely unless limited by the underlying
tax regulations, and have no carrying value. We have never been
called upon to perform under these indemnifications.

Revolving credit and letter of credit
    facilities

On June 6, 2003, we entered into a two-year
$800 million revolving and letter of credit facility,
primarily for the purpose of issuing letters of credit.
Northwest Pipeline and Transco also have access to all
unborrowed amounts under the facility. The facility must be
secured by cash and/or acceptable government securities with a
market value of at least 105 percent of the then
outstanding aggregate amount available for drawing under all
letters of credit, plus the aggregate amount of all loans then
outstanding. The restricted cash and investments used as
collateral are classified on our balance sheet as current or
non-current based on the expected ultimate termination date of
the underlying debt or letters of credit. The new credit
facility replaced a $1.1 billion credit line entered into
in July 2002 that was comprised of a $700 million revolving
credit facility and a $400 million letter of credit
facility secured by substantially all of our Midstream assets.
The lenders released these assets as collateral upon termination
of the old credit facilities, and they were not pledged in
support of the new facility. The interest rate on the new
facility is variable at the London InterBank Offered Rate
(LIBOR) plus .75 percent, or 1.87 percent at
December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2003, letters of
credit totaling $353 million have been issued by the
participating financial institutions under this facility and
remain outstanding. No revolving credit loans were outstanding.
At December 31, 2003, the amount of restricted investments
securing this facility was $381 million, which
collateralized the facility at approximately 108 percent.

Issuances and retirements

On May 28, 2003, we issued $300 million
of 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures
due 2033. These notes, which are callable after seven years, are
convertible at the option of the holder into our common stock at
a conversion price of approximately $10.89 per share. The
proceeds were used to redeem all of the outstanding
9.875 percent cumulative-convertible preferred shares (see
Note 13).

On May 30, 2003, our Exploration &
Production subsidiary entered into a $500 million secured
note due May 30, 2007, at a floating interest rate of LIBOR
plus 3.75 percent (totaling 4.92 percent at
December 31, 2003). This loan refinances a portion of the
RMT note discussed above. Certain of our Exploration &
Production interests in the U.S. Rocky Mountains had
secured the RMT note payable and now serve as security on the
current loan. Significant covenants on the borrower, RMT and its
parent Williams Production Holdings LLC (Holdings), include:

•

interest coverage ratio computed on a
    consolidated RMT basis of greater than 3 to 1;

•

ratio of the present value of future cash flows
    of proved reserves, discounted at ten percent, based on the most
    recent engineering report to total senior secured debt, computed
    on a consolidated RMT basis, of greater than 1.75 to 1;



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

•

limitation on restricted payments; and

•

limitation on intercompany indebtedness.

On February 25, 2004, this loan facility was
amended. The maturity date was extended to May 30, 2008,
and the interest rate was lowered to LIBOR plus 2.5 percent.

On June 10, 2003, we issued
$800 million of 8.625 percent senior unsecured notes
due 2010. The notes were issued under our $3 billion shelf
registration statement. Significant covenants include:

While we do not expect to exceed the fixed charge
covenant ratio until the end of 2005, the covenant includes a
provision that allows us to refinance our existing revolver and
letter of credit facility. These restrictions may be lifted if
certain conditions, including our attaining an investment grade
rating from both Moody’s Investors Service and Standard and
Poor’s are met.

A summary of significant issuances and
retirements of long-term debt, including capital leases, as well
as the items listed above, for the year ended December 31,
2003, is as follows:

Terms of certain of our subsidiaries’
borrowing arrangements with lenders limit the transfer of funds
to the corporate parent. At December 31, 2003,
approximately $105 million of net assets of consolidated
subsidiaries was restricted. Of this amount, $91 million is
reported as restricted cash on our Consolidated



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Balance Sheet. In addition, certain equity method
investees’ borrowing arrangements and foreign government
regulations limit the amount of dividends or distributions to
the corporate parent. Restricted net assets of equity method
investees was approximately $86 million at
December 31, 2003.

Aggregate minimum maturities of long-term debt
for each of the next five years are as follows:

As noted above, the FELINE PACS are subject to
remarketing in 2004. If the 2004 remarketing is unsuccessful, a
second remarketing will occur in February of 2005. If this
attempt at remarketing is unsuccessful, we could exercise our
right to foreclose on the notes in order to satisfy the
obligation of the holders of the equity forward contracts
requiring the holder to purchase our common stock (see
Note 13). This would be a non-cash transaction. Otherwise,
the notes are not subject to early retirement.

Cash payments for interest (net of amounts
capitalized) and other fees recorded as interest expense were as
follows: 2003 — $1.3 billion; 2002 —
$856 million; and 2001 — $548 million.

Leases-lessee

Future minimum annual rentals under noncancelable
operating leases as of December 31, 2003, are payable as
follows:

Total rent expense was $110 million in 2003,
$93 million in 2002, and $89 million in 2001. In 2003,
sublease income from third parties was $16.5 million.

In July 2002, we amended the terms of an
operating lease with a special-purpose entity owned by third
parties through which we leased offshore oil and gas pipelines
and an onshore gas processing plant. The amended terms caused
the lease to be reclassified as a capital lease. The capital
lease obligation, which was $139.9 million at
December 31, 2002, was paid off in second-quarter 2003.

Note 12.

Preferred interests in consolidated
    subsidiaries

Prior to 2003, we transferred certain of our
assets into newly created consolidated entities and then sold a
non-controlling preferred interest in those entities to outside
investors. The outside investors in three of the entities were
unconsolidated special purpose entities formed solely for the
purpose of purchasing the preferred ownership interest in the
respective entity. The special purpose entities were capitalized
with no less than three-percent equity from an independent third
party. The outside investor in the fourth entity was not a



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

special purpose entity. In each case, the outside
investor was entitled to priority distributions from the
consolidated entity. The assets and liabilities of these
entities are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, with
the obligations to the outside investors reflected as debt. In
2002 and 2003, we paid the remaining obligations to the outside
investors in these entities, as further described below.

Snow Goose Associates, L.L.C.

In December 2000, we formed two separate legal
entities, Snow Goose Associates, L.L.C. (Snow Goose) and Arctic
Fox Assets, L.L.C. (Arctic Fox) for the purpose of generating
funds to invest in certain Canadian energy-related assets. An
outside investor contributed $560 million in exchange for
the non-controlling preferred interest in Snow Goose. The
investor in Snow Goose was entitled to quarterly priority
distributions, representing an adjustable rate structure. The
initial priority return period was scheduled to expire in
December 2005.

During first-quarter 2002, the terms of the
priority return were amended. Significant terms of the amendment
included elimination of covenants regarding our credit ratings,
modifications of certain Canadian interest coverage covenants
and a requirement to amortize the outside investor’s
preferred interest with equal principal payments due each
quarter and the final payment in April 2003. In addition, we
provided a financial guarantee of the Arctic Fox note payable to
Snow Goose which, in turn, is the source of the priority
returns. Based on the terms of the amendment, the remaining
balance due of $224 million was classified as long-term
debt due within one year on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at
December 31, 2002. Priority returns prior to this amendment
are included in preferred returns and minority interest in
income of consolidated subsidiaries on the Consolidated
Statement of Operations. Subsequent priority return payments are
included in interest accrued on the Consolidated Statement of
Operations.

In April 2003, we purchased the remaining outside
investors’ interest in Snow Goose.

Piceance Production Holdings
    LLC

In December 2001, we formed Piceance Production
Holdings LLC (Piceance) and Rulison Production Company LLC
(Rulison) in a series of transactions that resulted in the sale
of a non-controlling preferred interest in Piceance to an
outside investor for $100 million. We used the proceeds of
the sale for general corporate purposes. The assets of Piceance
included fixed-price overriding royalty interests in certain oil
and gas properties owned by a subsidiary of ours as well as a
$135 million note from Rulison. The outside investor was
entitled to quarterly priority distributions beginning in
January 2002, based upon an adjustable rate structure in
addition to participation in a portion of the operating results
of Piceance. At December 31, 2002, the obligation to the
outside investor was $78.5 million and in May 2003, we
purchased the remaining outside investors’ interest in
Piceance.

Castle Associates L.P.

In December 1998, we formed Castle Associates
L.P. (Castle) through a series of transactions that resulted in
the sale of a non-controlling preferred interest in Castle to an
outside investor for $200 million. We used the proceeds of
the sale for general corporate purposes. The outside investor
was entitled to quarterly priority distributions based upon an
adjustable rate structure, in addition to a portion of the
participation in the operating results of Castle. We purchased
the outside investors’ interest in December 2002.

Williams Risk Holdings L.L.C.

During 1998, we formed Williams Risk Holdings
L.L.C. (Holdings) in a series of transactions that resulted in
the sale of a non-controlling preferred interest in Holdings to
an outside investor for $135 million. we used the proceeds
from the sale for general corporate purposes. The outside
investor in Holdings was not a



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

special purpose entity. The outside investor was
entitled to monthly preferred distributions based upon an
adjustable rate structure, in addition to participation in a
portion of the operating results of Holdings. The initial
priority return structure of Holdings was scheduled to expire in
September 2003. In July 2002, following the downgrade of our
senior unsecured rating we purchased the outside investor’s
ownership interest.

Note 13.

Stockholders’ equity

Concurrent with the sale of Kern River to
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (MEHC) on
March 27, 2002, we issued approximately 1.5 million
shares of 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred
stock to MEHC for $275 million. The terms of the preferred
stock allowed the holder to convert, at any time, one share of
preferred stock into 10 shares of our common stock at
$18.75 per share. The preferred shares carried no voting
rights and had a liquidation preference equal to the stated
value of $187.50 per share plus any dividends accumulated
and unpaid. Dividends on the preferred stock were payable
quarterly. At the time the preferred stock was issued, the
conversion price was less than the market price of our common
stock and thus deemed beneficial to the purchaser. The benefit
was recorded as a noncash dividend of $69.4 million, which
was a reduction to our retained earnings with an offsetting
amount recorded as an increase to capital in excess of par value.

On June 10, 2003, we redeemed all of the
outstanding 9.875 percent cumulative-convertible preferred
shares for approximately $289 million, plus
$5.3 million for accrued dividends. The $13.8 million
payments in excess of carrying value of the shares was also
recorded as a dividend. These shares were repurchased with
proceeds from a private placement of 5.5 percent junior
subordinated convertible debentures due 2033 (see Note 11).

In January 2002, we issued $1.1 billion of
6.5 percent notes payable in 2007 which are subject to
remarketing in 2004. Each note was bundled with an equity
forward contract (together, the FELINE PACS units) and sold in a
public offering for $25 per unit. The equity forward
contract requires the holder of each note to purchase one share
of our common stock for $25 three years from issuance of the
contract, provided that the average price of our common stock
does not exceed $41.25 per share for the 20 trading day
period prior to settlement. If the average price over that
period exceeds $41.25 per share, the number of shares
issued in exchange for $25 will be equal to one share multiplied
by the quotient of $41.25 divided by the average price over that
period. For example, if the average price at settlement is
$45 per share, the holder will be required to purchase
..9166 of a share for $25. The holder of the equity forward
contract can settle the contract early in the event we are
involved in a merger in which at least 30 percent of the
proceeds received by our shareholders is cash. In this event,
the holder will be entitled to pay the purchase price and
receive the kind and amount of securities they would have
received had they settled the equity forward contract
immediately prior to the acquisition. In addition to the
6.5 percent interest payment on the notes, we also make a
2.5 percent annual contract adjustment payment for the term
of the equity forward contract. The present value of the total
of the contract adjustment payments at the date the FELINE PACS
were issued was $76.7 million and was recorded as a
liability and a reduction to capital in excess of par at that
time. A periodic charge is recognized in income to increase the
value of the related liability as the date of the common stock
issuance approaches.

We maintain a Stockholder Rights Plan under which
each outstanding share of our common stock has one-third of a
preferred stock purchase right attached. Under certain
conditions, each right may be exercised to purchase, at an
exercise price of $140 (subject to adjustment), one
two-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock. The rights may be exercised only if an
Acquiring Person acquires (or obtains the right to acquire) 15
percent or more of our common stock; or commences an offer for
15 percent or more of our common stock; or the Board of
Directors determines an Adverse Person has become the owner of a
substantial amount of our common stock. The rights, which until
exercised do not have voting rights, expire in 2006 and may be
redeemed at a price of $.01 per right prior to their
expiration, or within a specified period of time after the
occurrence of certain events. In the event a person becomes the
owner of more than



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

15 percent of our common stock or the Board
of Directors determines that a person is an Adverse Person, each
holder of a right (except an Acquiring Person or an Adverse
Person) shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, our
common stock having a value equal to two times the exercise
price of the right. In the event we are engaged in a merger,
business combination or 50 percent or more of our assets,
cash flow or earnings power is sold or transferred, each holder
of a right (except an Acquiring Person or an Adverse Person)
shall have the right to receive, upon exercise, common stock of
the acquiring company having a value equal to two times the
exercise price of the right.

Note 14.

Stock-based compensation

Plan information

On May 16, 2002, our stockholders approved
The Williams Companies, Inc. 2002 Incentive Plan (the
“Plan”). The Plan provides for common-stock-based
awards to both employees and non-management directors. Upon
approval by the stockholders, all prior stock plans were
terminated resulting in no further grants being made from those
plans. However, options outstanding in those prior plans remain
in those plans with their respective terms and provisions.

The Plan permits the granting of various types of
awards including, but not limited to, stock options, restricted
stock and deferred stock. Awards may be granted for no
consideration other than prior and future services or based on
certain financial performance targets being achieved. At
December 31, 2003, 56.2 million shares of our common
stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to existing and future
stock awards, of which 28.3 million shares were available
for future grants (14.8 million at December 31, 2002).

Loans

Several of our prior stock plans allowed us to
loan money to participants to exercise stock options using stock
certificates as collateral. Effective November 14, 2001, we
no longer issue loans under the stock option loan programs. Loan
holders were offered a one-time opportunity in January 2002 to
refinance outstanding loans at a market rate of interest
commensurate with the borrower’s credit standing. The
refinancing was in the form of a full recourse note, with
interest payable annually in cash and a loan maturity date of
December 31, 2005. We continue to hold the collateral
shares and may review the borrower’s financial position at
any time. The variable rate of interest on the loans was
determined at the signing of the promissory note to be
1.75 percent plus the current three-month London Interbank
Offered Rate (LIBOR). The rate is subject to change every three
months beginning with the first three-month anniversary of the
note. The amount of loans outstanding at December 31, 2003
and 2002, totaled approximately $28 million (net of a
$5 million allowance) and $30.3 million (net of a
$5 million allowance), respectively.

Deferred shares

We granted deferred shares of approximately
158,000 in 2003, 2,738,000 in 2002 and 1,423,000 in 2001.
Deferred shares are valued at the date of award, and the
weighted-average grant date fair value of the shares granted was
$4.68 in 2003, $12.26 in 2002 and $40.84 in 2001. We recognized
approximately $30 million, $31 million and
$22 million of expense for deferred shares, net of the
reduction of expense from forfeited shares, in 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively. Expense related to deferred shares granted
is recognized in the performance year or over the vesting
period, depending on the terms of the awards. The reduction of
expense related to the deferred shares forfeited is recognized
in the year of the forfeiture. We issued approximately 1,329,000
in 2003, 499,000 in 2002 and 260,000 in 2001, of the deferred
shares previously granted.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Options

The purchase price per share for stock options
may not be less than the market price of the underlying stock on
the date of grant. Stock options generally become exercisable
after three years from the date of grant and generally expire
ten years after grant.

On May 15, 2003, our shareholders approved a
stock option exchange program. Under this program, eligible
employees were given a one-time opportunity to exchange certain
outstanding options for a proportionately lesser number of
options at an exercise price to be determined at the grant date
of the new options. Surrendered options were cancelled
June 26, 2003, and replacement options were granted on
December 29, 2003. We did not recognize any expense
pursuant to the stock option exchange. However, for purposes of
pro forma disclosures, we recognized additional expense related
to these new options. The remaining expense on the cancelled
options will be amortized through year-end 2004.

The following summary reflects stock option
activity for our common stock and related information for 2003,
2002 and 2001:

*

Includes 3.9 million shares that were
    granted December 29, 2003, under the stock option exchange
    program, described above.

**

Includes 10.4 million shares that were
    cancelled on June 26, 2003 under the stock option exchange
    program, described above.

(1)

Effective with the spinoff of WilTel on
    April 23, 2001, the number and exercise price of
    unexercised stock options were adjusted to preserve the
    intrinsic value of the stock options that existed prior to the
    spinoff.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following summary provides information about
options for our common stock that are outstanding and
exercisable at December 31, 2003:

The estimated fair value at date of grant of
options for our common stock granted in 2003, 2002 and 2001,
using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, is as follows:

*

The 2003 weighted average fair value and
    assumptions do not reflect options that were granted
    December 29, 2003, as part of the stock option exchange
    program which is described above. The fair value of these
    options is $1.58, which is the difference in the fair value of
    the new options granted and the fair value of the exchanged
    options. The assumptions used in the fair value calculation of
    the new options granted were: 1) dividend yield of .40
    percent; 2) volatility of 50 percent; 3) weighted
    average expected remaining life of 3.4 years; and
    4) weighted average risk free interest rate of
    1.99 percent.

Pro forma net income (loss) and earnings per
share, assuming we had applied the fair-value method of
SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation” in measuring compensation cost beginning with
1997 employee stock-based awards is disclosed under Employee
stock-based awards in Note 1.

Note 15.

Financial instruments, derivatives, guarantees
    and concentration of credit risk

Financial instruments fair
    value

Fair-value
methods

We used the following methods and assumptions in
estimating our fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Restricted
Cash:

The carrying amounts reported in
the balance sheet approximate fair value due to the short-term
maturity of these instruments.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Notes and Other Non-current Receivables,
Margin Deposits and Deposits Received from Customers Relating to
Energy Trading and Hedging Activities:

The carrying amounts reported in the balance sheet approximate
fair value as these instruments have interest rates
approximating market or maturities of less than three years.

Restricted Investments and Marketable Equity
Securities:

The restricted investments
consist of short-term U.S. Treasury securities. Fair value
is determined using indicative year-end traded prices.

Advances to
Affiliates:

The 2003 carrying amounts
reported in the balance sheet approximate fair value as these
instruments were written down to estimated fair value based on
terms of a recapitalization plan (see Note 3). The 2002
carrying amounts, reported in the balance sheet in Investments
approximate fair value as these instruments have interest rates
approximating market.

Notes Payable:

Fair
value of the RMT note payable in 2002 was determined using the
expertise of outside investment banking firms. The carrying
amounts of other notes payable approximate fair value due to the
short-term maturity of these instruments.

Long-Term Debt:

The
fair value of our publicly traded long-term debt is valued using
indicative year-end traded bond market prices. Private debt is
valued based on the prices of similar securities with similar
terms and credit ratings. At December 31, 2003 and 2002,
77 percent and 76 percent, respectively, of our
long-term debt was publicly traded. We used the expertise of
outside investment banking firms to assist with the estimate of
the fair value of long-term debt.

Energy Derivatives:

Energy derivatives include:

Fair value of energy derivatives is determined
based on the nature of the transaction and the market in which
transactions are executed. Most of these transactions are
executed in exchange-traded or over-the-counter markets for
which quoted prices in active periods exist. For contracts with
lives exceeding the time period for which quoted prices are
available, we determined fair value by estimating commodity
prices during the illiquid periods. We estimated commodity
prices during illiquid periods by incorporating information
obtained from commodity prices in actively quoted markets,
prices reflected in current transactions and market fundamental
analysis.

Foreign Currency
Derivatives:

Fair value is determined
by discounting estimated future cash flows using forward foreign
exchange rates derived from the year-end forward exchange curve.
Fair value was calculated by the financial institution that is
counterparty to the agreement.

Interest-Rate Swaps:

Fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash
flows using forward-interest rates derived from the year-end
yield curve. The financial institutions that are the
counterparties to the swaps calculated the fair value.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Carrying Amounts and Fair Values of Our
    Financial Instruments

Energy derivatives

Energy trading and non-trading
    derivatives

We have energy trading and non-trading
derivatives that have not been designated as or do not qualify
as SFAS No. 133 hedges. As such, the net change in
their fair value is recognized in earnings. Our Power segment
has trading derivatives that provide risk management services to
our third-party customers and non-trading derivatives that hedge
or could possibly hedge our long-term structured contract
positions on an economic basis. In addition, our
Exploration & Production segment enters into natural
gas basis swap agreements and the Alaska operations (within
discontinued operations) enters into crude oil and refined
product contracts.

We also hold significant non-derivative
energy-related contracts in our Power trading and non-trading
portfolios. These have not been included in the financial
instruments table above because they do not qualify as financial
instruments. See Note 1 regarding

Energy commodity risk
management and trading activities and revenues

for further
discussion of the non-derivative energy-related contracts.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Power segment

Futures Contracts:

Futures contracts are commitments to either purchase or sell a
commodity at a future date for a specified price and are
generally settled in cash, but may be settled through delivery
of the underlying commodity. Exchange-traded or over-the-counter
markets providing quoted prices in active periods are available.
Where quoted prices are not available, other market indicators
exist for the futures contracts we enter into. The fair value of
these contracts is based on quoted prices.

Swap Agreements and Forward Purchase and Sale
Contracts:

Swap agreements require us
to make payments to (or receive payments from) counterparties
based upon the differential between a fixed and variable price
or variable prices of energy commodities for different
locations. Forward contracts which involve physical delivery of
energy commodities contain both fixed and variable pricing
terms. Swap agreements and forward contracts are valued based on
prices of the underlying energy commodities over the contract
life and contractual or notional volumes with the resulting
expected future cash flows discounted to a present value using a
risk-free market interest rate.

Options:

Physical
and financial option contracts give the buyer the right to
exercise the option and receive the difference between a
predetermined strike price and a market price at the date of
exercise. These contracts are valued based on option pricing
models considering prices of the underlying energy commodities
over the contract life, volatility of the commodity prices,
contractual volumes, estimated volumes under option and other
arrangements and a risk-free market interest rate.

Interest-Rate and Credit
Derivatives:

Interest-rate swap and
futures agreements, including those with the parent, are used to
manage the interest rate risk in Power’s energy trading and
non-trading portfolio. Under swap agreements, Power pays a fixed
rate and receives a variable rate on the notional amount of the
agreements. Financial futures contracts are commitments to
either purchase or sell a financial instrument, such as a
Eurodollar deposit, U.S. Treasury bond or
U.S. Treasury note, at a future date for a specified price.
These are generally settled in cash, but may be settled through
delivery of the underlying instrument. The fair value of these
contracts is determined by discounting estimated future cash
flows using forward interest rates derived from interest rate
yield curves. Credit default swaps are used to manage
counterparty credit exposure in the energy trading and
non-trading portfolio. Under these agreements, Power pays a
fixed rate premium for a notional amount of risk coverage
associated with certain credit events. The covered credit events
are bankruptcy, obligation acceleration, failure to pay and
restructuring. The fair value of these agreements is based on
current pricing received from the counterparties.

The valuation of all the contracts discussed
above also considers factors such as the liquidity of the market
in which the contract is transacted, uncertainty regarding the
ability to liquidate the position considering market factors
applicable at the date of such valuation and risk of
non-performance and credit considerations of the counterparty.
For contracts or transactions that extend into periods for which
actively quoted prices are not available, we estimate energy
commodity prices in the illiquid periods by incorporating
information obtained from commodity prices in actively quoted
markets, prices reflected in current transactions and market
fundamental analysis.

Exploration & Production
    segment

Our operations associated with the production of
natural gas enter into basis swap agreements fixing the price
differential between the Rocky Mountain natural gas prices and
Gulf Coast natural gas prices as part of their overall natural
gas price risk management program to reduce risk of declining
natural gas prices in basins with limited pipeline capacity to
other markets. Certain of these basis swaps do not qualify for
hedge accounting treatment under SFAS No. 133; hence,
the net change in fair value of these derivatives representing
unrealized gains and losses is recognized in earnings currently
as revenues in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Discontinued operations

During 2002 and early 2003, our operations
associated with crude oil refining and refined products
marketing in the Midsouth entered into derivative transactions
(primarily forward contracts, futures contracts, swap agreements
and option contracts) which were not designated as hedges. The
forward contracts were for the procurement of crude oil and
refined products supply for operational purposes, while the
other derivatives manage certain risks associated with market
fluctuations in crude oil and refined product prices related to
refined products marketing. The net change in fair value of
these derivatives, representing unrealized gains and losses, was
recognized in earnings currently as revenues or costs and
operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
As a result of the completion of the sale of the Midsouth
refinery during first-quarter 2003, these derivatives were
discontinued.

Energy commodity cash flow hedges

We are also exposed to market risk from changes
in energy commodity prices within other areas of our operations.
We utilize derivatives to manage our exposure to the variability
in expected future cash flows attributable to commodity price
risk associated with forecasted purchases and sales of natural
gas, refined products and crude oil. These derivatives have been
designated as cash flow hedges.

We produce, buy and sell natural gas and crude
oil at different locations throughout the United States. To
reduce exposure to a decrease in revenues or an increase in
costs from fluctuations in natural gas and crude oil market
prices, we enter into natural gas and crude oil futures
contracts and swap agreements to fix the price of anticipated
sales and purchases of natural gas and sales of crude oil.
During 2003, we discontinued hedge accounting for anticipated
sales of crude oil due to the sale of those producing properties.

Our refinery operations purchase crude oil for
processing and sell the refined products. These operations are
exposed to increasing costs of crude oil and/or decreasing
refined product sales prices due to changes in market prices. We
enter into crude oil and refined products futures contracts and
swap agreements to lock in the prices of anticipated purchases
of crude oil and sales of refined products. During 2002, these
derivatives were accounted for as cash flow hedges. Hedge
accounting was discontinued during 2002 for forecasted
transactions no longer probable of occurring because of the
anticipated sales of the refineries (see Note 2).

Our electric generation facilities utilize
natural gas in the production of electricity. To reduce the
exposure to increasing costs of natural gas due to changes in
market prices, we enter into natural gas futures contracts and
swap agreements to fix the prices of anticipated purchases of
natural gas. In addition, during 2002 we entered into
fixed-price forward physical contracts to fix the prices of
anticipated sales of electric production. During 2002, we
discontinued hedge accounting for one of the electric generation
facilities due to the sale of the facility in 2003.

Derivative gains or losses from these cash flow
hedges are deferred in other comprehensive income and
reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during
which the hedged forecasted purchases or sales affect earnings.
To match the underlying transaction being hedged, derivative
gains or losses associated with anticipated purchases are
recognized in costs and operating expenses and amounts
associated with anticipated sales are recognized in revenues in
the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Approximately
$.6 million of gains from hedge ineffectiveness are
included in costs and operating expenses in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations during 2003. Approximately
$.5 million of losses and $.7 million of gains from
hedge ineffectiveness are included in revenues and costs and
operating expenses, respectively, in the Consolidated Statement
of Operations during 2002. We discontinued hedge accounting in
2003 and 2002 for certain contracts when it became probable that
the related forecasted transactions would not occur. As a
result, we reclassified net losses of $5 million and net
gains of $43 million from accumulated other comprehensive
income and into earnings in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations in 2003 and 2002, respectively. For 2003 and 2002,
there were no derivative gains or losses excluded from the
assessment of hedge effectiveness.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2003, we had hedged
future cash flows associated with anticipated energy commodity
purchases and sales for up to 12 years. Based on recorded
values at December 31, 2003, approximately
$104 million of net losses (net of income tax benefits of
$65 million) will be reclassified into earnings within the
next year. These losses will offset net gains that will be
realized in earnings from previous favorable market movements
associated with underlying hedged transactions.

Energy commodity fair-value hedges

Our refineries carry inventories of crude oil and
refined products. During 2002, we entered into crude oil and
refined products futures contracts and swap agreements to reduce
the market exposure of these inventories from changing energy
commodity prices. These derivatives were designated as
fair-value hedges. Derivative gains and losses from these
fair-value hedges were recognized in earnings currently along
with the change in fair value of the hedged item attributable to
the risk being hedged. Gains and losses related to hedges of
inventory were recognized in costs and operating expenses in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations. Approximately
$8 million of net gains from hedge ineffectiveness was
recognized in costs and operating expenses in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations during 2002. There were no derivative
gains or losses excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness. During third-quarter 2002, we discontinued the
use of fair value hedges related to refined products and crude
oil in early 2003 due to the sale of the Midsouth refinery.

Foreign currency derivatives

We have an intercompany
Canadian-dollar-denominated note receivable that is exposed to
foreign-currency risk. To protect against variability in the
cash flows from the repayment of the note receivable associated
with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we entered into
a forward contract to fix the U.S. dollar principal cash
flows from this note. This derivative was designated as a cash
flow hedge and was expected to be highly effective over the
period of the hedge. Hedge accounting was discontinued effective
October 1, 2002 because the hedge is no longer expected to
be highly effective. All gains or losses subsequent to
October 1, 2002, are recognized currently in other income
(expense) — net below operating income. Gains and
losses from the change in fair value of the derivatives prior to
October 1, 2002, were deferred in other comprehensive
income (loss) and reclassified to other income
(expense) — net below operating income as the
Canadian-dollar-denominated note receivable impacted earnings as
it was translated into U.S. dollars. The $2.4 million
of net losses (net of income tax benefits of $1.5 million)
deferred in other comprehensive income (loss) at
December 31, 2002, was reclassified into earnings during
2003. In 2002, there were no derivative gains or losses recorded
in the Consolidated Statement of Operations from hedge
ineffectiveness or from amounts excluded from the assessment of
hedge effectiveness, and no foreign currency hedges were
discontinued as a result of it becoming probable that the
forecasted transaction would not occur.

Interest-rate swaps

We managed our interest rate risk on an
enterprise basis through the corporate parent. A significant
component of this risk relates to our Power segment’s
trading and non-trading portfolios. To facilitate the management
of the risk, Power may enter into derivative instruments
(usually swaps) with the corporate parent. The corporate parent
determines the level, term and nature of derivative instruments
entered into with external parties. These external derivative
instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting per
SFAS No. 133; therefore, changes in their fair value
are reflected in earnings, the effect of which is shown as
interest rate swap loss in the Consolidated Statement of
Operations below operating income.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Guarantees

In addition to the guarantees and payment
obligations discussed elsewhere in these footnotes (see
Notes 2, 3, 11 and 16), we have issued guarantees and
other similar arrangements with off-balance sheet risk as
discussed below.

In connection with the 1993 public offering of
units in the Williams Coal Seam Gas Royalty Trust (Royalty
Trust), our Exploration & Production segment entered
into a gas purchase contract for the purchase of natural gas in
which the Royalty Trust holds a net profits interest. Under this
agreement, we guarantee a minimum purchase price that the
Royalty Trust will realize in the calculation of its net profits
interest. We have an annual option to discontinue this minimum
purchase price guarantee and pay solely based on an index price.
The maximum potential future exposure associated with this
guarantee is not determinable because it is dependent upon
natural gas prices and production volumes. No amounts have been
accrued for this contingent obligation as the index price
continues to exceed the minimum purchase price.

Sale of receivables

Through July 25, 2002 we sold certain trade
accounts receivable to special purpose entities (SPEs) in a
securitization structure. We acted as the servicing agent for
the sold receivables and received a servicing fee approximating
the fair value of such services. During 2002 and 2001, we
received cash proceeds from the SPEs of approximately
$4.5 billion and $12.5 billion, respectively. The
sales of these receivables resulted in charges to results of
operations of approximately $3 million and $16 million
in 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Concentration of credit risk

Cash equivalents and restricted
    investments

Our cash equivalents consist of high-quality
securities placed with various major financial institutions with
credit ratings at or above BBB by Standard &
Poor’s or Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service.
Restricted investments consist of short-term U.S. Treasury
Securities.

Accounts and notes receivable

The following table summarizes concentration of
receivables, net of allowances, by product or service at
December 31, 2003 and 2002:

Natural gas customers include pipelines,
distribution companies, producers, gas marketers and industrial
users primarily located in the eastern and northwestern United
States, Rocky Mountains, Gulf Coast, Venezuela and Canada. Power
customers include the California Independent System Operator
(ISO), the California Department of Water Resources, other power
marketers and utilities located throughout the majority of the
United States. Petroleum products customers include wholesale,
commercial, industrial and



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

independent dealers located primarily in the
Mid-Continent region. As a general policy, collateral is not
required for receivables, but customers’ financial
condition and credit worthiness are evaluated regularly.

As of December 31, 2003, approximately
$177 million of certain power receivables net of related
allowances from the ISO and the California Power Exchange have
not been paid (compared to $230 million at
December 31, 2002). We believe that we have appropriately
reflected the collection and credit risk associated with
receivables and derivative assets in our Consolidated Balance
Sheet and Statement of Operations at December 31, 2003. In
2002, we borrowed approximately $79 million which was
collateralized by certain of these receivables.

Derivative assets and liabilities

We have a risk of loss as a result of
counterparties not performing pursuant to the terms of their
contractual obligations. Risk of loss can result from credit
considerations and the regulatory environment of the
counterparty. We attempt to minimize credit-risk exposure to
derivative counterparties and brokers through formal credit
policies, consideration of credit ratings from public ratings
agencies, monitoring procedures, master netting agreements and
collateral support under certain circumstances.

The concentration of counterparties within the
energy and energy trading industry impacts our overall exposure
to credit risk in that these counterparties are similarly
influenced by changes in the economy and regulatory issues.
Additional collateral support could include the following:

We also enter into netting agreements to mitigate
counterparty performance and credit risk.

The gross credit exposure from our derivative
contracts as of December 31, 2003 is summarized below.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

We assess our credit exposure on a net basis. The
net credit exposure from our derivatives as of December 31,
2003 is summarized below.

Revenues

In 2003, there were no customers that exceeded
10 percent of our revenues. In 2002, seven of Power’s
customers exceeded 10 percent of our revenues with sales
from each customer of $516.9 million, $505.5 million,
$482.5 million, $474.8 million, $408.7 million,
$379.2 million and $377.5 million, respectively. The
revenues from these customers in 2002 are net of cost of sales
with the same customer consistent with fair-value accounting
(see Note 1). The sum of these net revenues exceeds our
total revenues because there are additional customers with whom
we have negative net revenues (due to the costs from these
customers exceeding the revenues) which offset this sum. In
2001, two of Power’s customers exceeded 10 percent of our
revenues with sales of $937.7 million and
$597.9 million, respectively.

Certain of our counterparties have experienced
significant declines in their financial stability and
creditworthiness, which may adversely impact their ability to
perform under contracts. Revenues from two counterparties, which
have credit ratings below investment grade, constitute
approximately 12 percent of Power’s gross revenues.
Our exposure to these counterparties may be mitigated by the
existence of netting arrangements.

Note 16.

Contingent liabilities and
    commitments

Rate and regulatory matters and related
    litigation

Our interstate pipeline subsidiaries have various
regulatory proceedings pending. As a result of rulings in
certain of these proceedings, a portion of the revenues of these
subsidiaries has been collected subject to refund. The natural
gas pipeline subsidiaries have accrued approximately
$11 million for potential refund as of December 31,
2003.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Issues resulting from California energy
    crisis

Power subsidiaries are engaged in power marketing
in various geographic areas, including California. Prices
charged for power by us and other traders and generators in
California and other western states in 2000 and 2001 have been
challenged in various proceedings including those before the
FERC. These challenges include refund proceedings, California
Independent System Operator (ISO) fines, summer 2002 90-day
contracts, investigations of alleged market manipulation
including withholding gas indices and other gaming of the
market, new long-term power sales to the State of California
that were subsequently challenged and civil litigation relating
to certain of these issues. We have entered into a settlement
with the State of California and others that has resolved each
of these issues as to the State. However, certain of these
issues remain open as to the FERC and other non-settling parties.

Refund proceedings

We and other suppliers of electricity in the
California market are the subject of refund proceedings before
the FERC. In December 2000, the FERC issued an order initiating
the proceeding, which ultimately (by order dated June 19,
2001) established a refund methodology and set a refund period
of October 2, 2000 to June 19, 2001. As a result of a
hearing to determine refund liability for the market
participants, a FERC Administrative Law Judge issued findings on
December 12, 2002, that estimated our refund obligation to
the ISO at $192 million, excluding emissions costs and
interest. The judge estimated that our refund obligation to the
California Power Exchange (PX) was $21.5 million,
excluding interest. However, the judge estimated that the ISO
owes us $246.8 million, excluding interest, and that the
PX owes us $31.7 million, excluding interest, and
$2.9 million in charge backs. The estimates did not include
$17 million in emissions costs that the judge found we are
entitled to use as an offset to the refund liability, and the
judge’s refund estimates are not based on final mitigated
market clearing prices. On March 26, 2003, the FERC acted
to largely adopt the judge’s order with a change to the gas
methodology used to set the clearing price. As a result, Power
recorded a first-quarter 2003 charge for refund obligations of
$37 million. Net interest income related to amounts due
from the counterparties is approximately $19 million
through December 31, 2003. On October 16, 2003, the
FERC issued an additional refund order granting rehearing in
part and denying rehearing in part. This order is not expected
to have a material effect on the refund calculation for us.
However, pursuant to the October 16 Order, the ISO has been
ordered to calculate refunds for the market. This study is
expected to be complete in early summer, 2004. Although we have
entered into a global settlement with the State of California
and various other parties that resolves the refund issues among
the settling parties for the period of January 17, 2001 to
June 19, 2001, we have potential refund exposure to
non-settling parties (e.g., various California electric
utilities). Therefore, we continue to participate in the FERC
refund case and related proceedings. Challenges to virtually
every aspect of the refund proceeding, including the refund
period, are now pending at the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
No schedule has yet been established for hearing the appeals.

On February 25, 2004, we announced a
settlement agreement with California utilities, Southern
California Edison and Pacific Gas & Electric
(PG&E), to resolve our refund liability to the utilities as
well as all other known disputes related to the California
energy crisis of 2000 and 2001. While only these two utilities
are parties to the settlement with us, the settlement provides
funding for refunds to all buyers in equal kind in the FERC
refund period. Should any buyer opt out of the settlement, the
refund amount in the settlement would be reduced and we would
continue to litigate with that buyer regarding the refund issue
and amount. To be effective, this settlement must be approved by
the FERC, the California Public Utilities Commission, and the
U.S. Bankruptcy Court for PG&E. Approval by the FERC
will also resolve FERC investigations into physical and economic
withholding. We recorded a charge of approximately
$33 million in the fourth quarter of 2003 associated with
the terms of this settlement.

In a separate but related proceeding, certain
entities have also asked the FERC to revoke our authority to
sell power from California-based generating units at
market-based rates, to limit us to cost-based rates for



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

future sales from such units and to order refunds
of excessive rates, with interest, retroactive to May 1,
2000, and possibly earlier.

ISO fines

On July 3, 2002, the ISO announced fines
against several energy producers including us, for failure to
deliver electricity during the period December 2000 through May
2001. The ISO fined us $25.5 million during this period,
which was offset against our claims for payment from the ISO.
These amounts will be adjusted as part of the refund proceeding
described above. We believe the vast majority of fines are not
justified and have challenged them pursuant to the FERC-approved
dispute resolution process contained in the ISO tariff.

Summer 2002 90-day contracts

On May 2, 2002, PacifiCorp filed a complaint
with the FERC against Power seeking relief from rates contained
in three separate confirmation agreements between PacifiCorp and
Power (known as the Summer 2002 90-Day Contracts). PacifiCorp
filed similar complaints against three other suppliers.
PacifiCorp alleged that the rates contained in the contracts are
unjust and unreasonable. On June 26, 2003, the FERC
affirmed the Administrative Law Judge’s initial decision
dismissing the complaints. PacifiCorp has appealed the
FERC’s order after the FERC denied rehearing of its order
on November 10, 2003.

Investigations of alleged market
    manipulation

As a result of various allegations and FERC
Orders, the FERC initiated investigations of manipulation of the
California gas and power markets in 2002. As they related to us,
these investigations included economic and physical withholding,
so-called “Enron Gaming Practices” and gas index
manipulation.

On February 13, 2002, the FERC issued an
Order Directing Staff Investigation commencing a proceeding
titled Fact-Finding Investigation of Potential Manipulation of
Electric and Natural Gas Prices prior to the California parties
(who include the California Attorney General, the Electricity
Oversight Board, the Public Utilities Commission and two
investor-owned utilities) filing of their report. Through the
investigation, the FERC intends to determine whether “any
entity, including Enron Corporation (Enron) (through any of its
affiliates or subsidiaries), manipulated short-term prices for
electric energy or natural gas in the West or otherwise
exercised undue influence over wholesale electric prices in the
West since January 1, 2000, resulting in potentially unjust
and unreasonable rates in long-term power sales contracts
subsequently entered into by sellers in the West.” On
May 8, 2002, we received data requests from the FERC
related to a disclosure by Enron of certain trading practices in
which it may have been engaged in the California market. On
May 21, and May 22, 2002, the FERC supplemented the
request inquiring as to “wash” or
“round-trip” transactions. We responded on
May 22, 2002, May 31, 2002, and June 5, 2002, to
the data requests. On June 4, 2002, the FERC issued an
order to us to show cause why our market-based rate authority
should not be revoked as the FERC found that certain of our
responses related to the Enron trading practices constituted a
failure to cooperate with the staff’s investigation. We
subsequently supplemented our responses to address the show
cause order. On July 26, 2002, we received a letter from
the FERC informing us that it had reviewed all of our
supplemental responses and concluded that we responded to the
initial May 8, 2002 request.

As also discussed below in

Reporting of
natural gas-related information to trade publications,

on November 8, 2002, we received a subpoena from a federal
grand jury in Northern California seeking documents related to
our involvement in California markets. We are in the process of
completing our response to the subpoena. This subpoena is a part
of the broad United States Department of Justice (DOJ)
investigation regarding gas and power trading.

Pursuant to an order from the Ninth Circuit, the
FERC permitted certain California parties to conduct additional
discovery into market manipulation by sellers in the California
markets. The California parties



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

sought this discovery in order to potentially
expand the scope of the refunds. On March 3, 2003, the
California parties submitted evidence from this discovery on
market manipulation (“March 3rd Report”). We and
other sellers submitted comments regarding the additional
evidence on March 20, 2003.

On March 26, 2003, the FERC issued a Staff
Report addressing: (1) Enron trading practices, (2) an
allegation in a June 2, 2002

New York Times

article that we had attempted to corner the gas market, and
(3) the allegations of gas price index manipulation which
are discussed in more detail below in

Reporting of natural
gas-related information to trade publications

. The Staff
Report cleared us on the issue of cornering the market and
contemplated or established further proceedings on the other two
issues as to us and numerous other market participants. On
June 25, 2003, the FERC issued a series of orders in
response to the California parties’ March 3rd Report
and the Staff Report. These orders resulted in further
investigations regarding potential allegations of physical
withholding, economic withholding, and a show cause order
alleging that various companies engaged in Enron trading
practices. On August 29, 2003, we entered into a settlement
with the FERC trial staff of all Enron trading practices for
approximately $45,000. The settlement was approved by the FERC
on January 22, 2004. The investigations of physical and
economic withholding are also continuing. Each of these FERC
investigations of alleged market manipulation will be resolved
pursuant to the February 25 settlement that is discussed
above in

Refund proceedings

.

Long-term contracts

In February 2001, during the height of the
California Energy Crisis, we entered into a long-term power
contract with the State of California to assist in stabilizing
its market. This contract was later challenged by the State of
California. This challenge resulted in settlement discussions
being held between the State and us on the contract issue as
well as other state initiated proceedings and allegations on
market manipulation. A settlement was reached that resulted in
us entering into a settlement agreement with the State of
California and other non-Federal parties that includes
renegotiated long-term energy contracts. These contracts are
made up of block energy sales, dispatchable products and a gas
contract. The settlement does not extend to criminal matters or
matters of willful fraud, but also resolved civil complaints
brought by the California Attorney General against us and the
State of California’s refund claims that are discussed
above. In addition, the settlement resolved ongoing
investigations by the States of California, Oregon and
Washington. The settlement was reduced to writing and executed
on November 11, 2002. The settlement closed on
December 31, 2002, after FERC issued an order granting our
motion for partial dismissal from the refund proceedings. The
dismissal affects our refund obligations to the settling
parties, but not to other parties, such as investor-owned
utilities. Pursuant to the settlement, the California Public
Utilities Commission (CPUC) and California Electricity
Oversight Board (CEOB) filed a motion on January 13,
2003 to withdraw their complaints against us regarding the
original block energy sales contract. On June 26, 2003, the
FERC granted the CPUC and CEOB joint motion to withdraw their
respective complaints against us. Certain private class action
and other civil plaintiffs who have initiated class action
litigation against us and others in California based on
allegations against us with respect to the California energy
crisis also executed the settlement. Final approval by the court
is needed to make the settlement effective as to plaintiffs and
to terminate the class actions as to us. On October 24,
2003, the court granted a motion for preliminary approval of the
settlement. The final approval hearing is currently scheduled
for June 4, 2004. Upon approval, the majority of civil
litigation involving Williams and California markets will be
resolved. Some litigation by non-California plaintiffs, or
relating to reporting of natural gas information to trade
publications, as discussed below, will continue. As of
December 31, 2003, pursuant to the terms of the settlement,
we have transferred ownership of six LM6000 gas powered electric
turbines, have made two payments totaling $72 million to
the California Attorney General, and have funded a
$15 million fee and expense fund associated with civil
actions that are subject to the settlement. An additional
$75 million remains to be paid to the California Attorney
General (or his designee) over the next six years, with the
final payment of $15 million due on January 1, 2010.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Marketing affiliate
    investigation

By order dated March 17, 2003, the FERC
approved a settlement between the FERC staff and us, Transco,
and Power which resolved the FERC staff’s allegations
during a formal, nonpublic investigation that Power personnel
had access to Transco data bases and other information, and that
Transco had failed to accurately post certain information on its
electronic bulletin board. Pursuant to the terms of the
settlement agreement, Transco will pay a civil penalty in the
amount of $20 million in five equal installments. The first
payment was made on May 16, 2003, and the subsequent
payments are due on or before the first, second, third and
fourth anniversaries of the first payment. Transco recorded a
charge to income and established a liability of $17 million
in 2002 representing the net present value of the future
payments. Transco notified its Firm Sales (FS) customers of
its intention to terminate the FS service effective
April 1, 2005 under the terms of any applicable contracts
and FERC certificates authorizing such services. As part of the
settlement, Power has agreed, subject to certain exceptions,
that it will not enter into new transportation agreements that
would increase the transportation capacity it holds on certain
affiliated interstate gas pipelines, including Transco. Finally,
Transco and certain affiliates have agreed to the terms of a
compliance plan designed to ensure future compliance with the
provisions of the settlement agreement and the FERC’s rules
governing the relationship of Transco and Power.

Investigation of “round-trip”
    trading and reserves for energy trading activities

On May 31, 2002, we received a request from
the Enforcement Division of the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) to voluntarily produce documents and
information regarding “round-trip” trades for gas or
power from January 1, 2000, to the present in the United
States. On June 24, 2002, the SEC made an additional
request for information including a request that we address the
amount of our credit, prudency and/or other reserves associated,
with our energy trading activities and the methods used to
determine or calculate these reserves. The June 24, 2002,
request also requested our volumes, revenues, and earnings from
our energy trading activities in the Western U.S. market.
We have responded to the SEC’s requests and have received
no further related requests from them to date.

Reporting of natural gas-related
    information to trade publications

We disclosed on October 25, 2002, that
certain of our natural gas traders had reported inaccurate
information to a trade publication that published gas price
indices. As noted above, on November 8, 2002, we received a
subpoena from a federal grand jury in Northern California
seeking documents related to our involvement in California
markets, including our reporting to trade publications for both
gas and power transactions. We are in the process of completing
our response to the subpoena. The DOJ’s investigation into
this matter is continuing. In addition, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (CFTC) has conducted an investigation of
us regarding this issue. On July 29, 2003, we reached a
settlement with the CFTC where in exchange for $20 million,
the CFTC closed its investigation and we did not admit or deny
allegations that we had engaged in false reporting or attempted
manipulation. Civil suits based on allegations of manipulating
the gas indices have been brought against us and others in
federal and state court in California and in Federal court in
New York.

Mobile Bay expansion

On December 3, 2002, an administrative law
judge at the FERC issued an initial decision in Transco’s
general rate case which, among other things, rejects the
recovery of the costs of Transco’s Mobile Bay expansion
project from its shippers on a “rolled-in” basis and
finds that incremental pricing for the Mobile Bay expansion
project is just and reasonable. The initial decision does not
address the issue of the effective date for the change to
incremental pricing, although Transco’s rates reflecting
recovery of the Mobile Bay expansion project costs on a
“rolled-in” basis have been in effect since
September 1, 2001. The administrative law



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

judge’s initial decision is subject to
review by the FERC. Power holds long-term transportation
capacity on the Mobile Bay expansion project. If the FERC adopts
the decision of the administrative law judge on the pricing of
the Mobile Bay expansion project and also requires that the
decision be implemented effective September 1, 2001, Power
could be subject to surcharges of approximately
$41 million, excluding interest, through December 31,
2003, in addition to increased costs going forward.

Enron bankruptcy

We have outstanding claims against Enron Corp.
and various of its subsidiaries (collectively “Enron”)
related to Enron’s bankruptcy filed in December 2001. In
March 2002, we sold $100 million of our claims against
Enron to a third party for $24.5 million. On
December 23, 2003, Enron filed objections to these claims.
Under the sales agreement, the purchaser of the claims may
demand repayment of the purchase price, plus interest assessed
at 7.5 percent per annum, for that portion of the claims
still subject to objections 90 days following the initial
objection.

Environmental matters

Continuing operations

Since 1989, Transco has had studies under way to
test certain of its facilities for the presence of toxic and
hazardous substances to determine to what extent, if any,
remediation may be necessary. Transco has responded to data
requests regarding such potential contamination of certain of
its sites. Transco has identified polychlorinated biphenyl
(PCB) contamination in compressor systems, soils and
related properties at certain compressor station sites. Transco
has also been involved in negotiations with the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state
agencies to develop screening, sampling and cleanup programs. In
addition, Transco commenced negotiations with certain
environmental authorities and other programs concerning
investigative and remedial actions relative to potential mercury
contamination at certain gas metering sites. The costs of any
such remediation will depend upon the scope of the remediation.
At December 31, 2003, Transco had accrued liabilities of
$28 million related to PCB contamination, potential mercury
contamination, and other toxic and hazardous substances.

We also accrue environmental remediation costs
for our natural gas gathering and processing facilities,
primarily related to soil and groundwater contamination. At
December 31, 2003, we had accrued liabilities totaling
approximately $12 million for these costs.

Actual costs incurred for these matters will
depend on the actual number of contaminated sites identified,
the amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final
cleanup standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental
authorities and other factors.

Former operations, including operations
    classified as discontinued

In connection with the sale of certain assets and
businesses, we have retained responsibility, through
indemnification of the purchasers, for environmental and other
liabilities existing at the time the sale was consummated.

Agrico

In connection with the 1987 sale of the assets of
Agrico Chemical Company, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser
for environmental cleanup costs resulting from certain
conditions at specified locations, to the extent such costs
exceed a specified amount. At December 31, 2003, we had
accrued liabilities of approximately $9 million for such
excess costs.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Williams Energy Partners

As part of our June 17, 2003 sale of
Williams Energy Partners (see Note 2), we indemnified the
purchaser for:

(1) environmental cleanup costs resulting
    from certain conditions, primarily soil and groundwater
    contamination, at specified locations, to the extent such costs
    exceed a specified amount and

(2) currently unidentified environmental
    contamination relating to operations prior to April 2002 and
    identified prior to April 2008.

At December 31, 2003, we had accrued
liabilities totaling approximately $9 million for these
costs. In addition, we deferred a portion of the gain associated
with our indemnifications, including environmental
indemnifications, of the purchaser under the sales agreement. At
December 31, 2003, we had a remaining deferred gain
relating to this sale of approximately $96 million.

On July 2, 2001, the EPA issued an
information request asking for information on oil releases and
discharges in any amount from our pipelines, pipeline systems,
and pipeline facilities used in the movement of oil or petroleum
products, during the period from July 1, 1998 through
July 2, 2001. In November 2001, we furnished our response.
This matter has not become an enforcement proceeding. On
March 11, 2004, the Department of Justice (DOJ)
invited the new owner of the pipeline to enter into negotiations
regarding alleged violations of the Clean Water Act and to sign
a tolling agreement. No penalty has been assessed by the EPA;
however, the DOJ stated in its letter that the maximum possible
penalties were approximately $22 million for the alleged
violations. It is anticipated that by providing additional
clarification and through negotiations with the EPA and DOJ,
that any proposed penalty will be reduced. We have indemnity
obligations to the new owner related to this matter.

Other

At December 31, 2003, we had accrued
environmental liabilities totaling approximately
$16 million related to our:

These costs include (1) certain conditions
at specified locations related primarily to soil and groundwater
contamination and (2) any penalty assessed on Williams
Refining & Marketing, LLC (Williams Refining)
associated with noncompliance with EPA’s benzene waste
“NESHAP” regulations. In 2002, Williams Refining
submitted to the EPA a self-disclosure letter indicating
noncompliance with those regulations. This unintentional
noncompliance had occurred due to a regulatory interpretation
that resulted in under-counting the total annual benzene level
at Williams Refinery’s Memphis refinery. Also in 2002, the
EPA conducted an all-media audit of the Memphis refinery. The
EPA anticipates releasing a report of its audit findings in
2004. The EPA will likely assess a penalty on Williams Refining
due to the benzene waste NESHAP issue, but the amount of any
such penalty is not known. In connection with the sale of the
Memphis refinery in March 2003, we indemnified the purchaser for
any such penalty.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Certain of our subsidiaries have been identified
as potentially responsible parties (PRP) at various
Superfund and state waste disposal sites. In addition, these
subsidiaries have incurred, or are alleged to have incurred,
various other hazardous materials removal or remediation
obligations under environmental laws.

Summary of environmental matters

Actual costs incurred for these matters could be
substantially greater than amounts accrued depending on the
actual number of contaminated sites identified, the actual
amount and extent of contamination discovered, the final cleanup
standards mandated by the EPA and other governmental authorities
and other factors.

Other legal matters

Royalty indemnifications

In connection with agreements to resolve
take-or-pay and other contract claims and to amend gas purchase
contracts, Transco entered into certain settlements with
producers which may require the indemnification of certain
claims for additional royalties which the producers may be
required to pay as a result of such settlements. Transco,
through its agent, Power, continues to purchase gas under
contracts which extend, in some cases, through the life of the
associated gas reserves. Certain of these contracts contain
royalty indemnification provisions which have no carrying value.
Producers have received and may receive other demands, which
could result in claims pursuant to royalty indemnification
provisions. Indemnification for royalties will depend on, among
other things, the specific lease provisions between the producer
and the lessor and the terms of the agreement between the
producer and Transco. Consequently, the potential maximum future
payments under such indemnification provisions cannot be
determined.

As a result of these settlements, Transco has
been sued by certain producers seeking indemnification from
Transco. Transco is currently a defendant in one lawsuit in
which a producer has asserted damages, including interest
calculated through December 31, 2003, of approximately
$10 million. On July 11, 2003, at the conclusion of
the trial, the judge ruled in Transco’s favor and
subsequently entered a formal judgment. The plaintiff is seeking
an appeal. On November 25, 2003, Transco and another
producer settled a separate lawsuit in which the producer had
asserted damages, including interest, of approximately
$8 million.

Western gas resources

On October 24, 2003, we settled the claims
by Western Gas Resources, Inc. and its subsidiary that our
merger with Barrett Resources Corporation triggered a
preferential right to purchase and a right to operate certain
Barrett coal bed methane development properties in the Powder
River Basin in Wyoming. As a result, terms in a long-term
gathering agreement with Western were amended and a subsidiary
of Western received operating rights to approximately one-half
of the properties jointly owned with us.

Will Price (formerly Quinque)

On June 8, 2001, fourteen of our entities
were named as defendants in a nationwide class action lawsuit
which had been pending against other defendants, generally
pipeline and gathering companies, for more than one year. The
plaintiffs allege that the defendants, including us, have
engaged in mismeasurement techniques that distort the heating
content of natural gas, resulting in an alleged underpayment of
royalties to the class of producer plaintiffs. After the court
denied class action certification and while motions to dismiss
for lack of personal jurisdiction were pending, the court
granted the plaintiffs’ motion to amend their petition on
July 29, 2003. The fourth amended petition, which was filed
on July 29, 2003, deletes all of our defendants except two
Midstream subsidiaries. All defendants intend to continue their
opposition to class certification.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Grynberg

In 1998, the DOJ informed us that Jack Grynberg,
an individual, had filed claims on behalf of himself and the
federal government, in the United States District Court for the
District of Colorado under the False Claims Act against us and
certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries. The claims sought an
unspecified amount of royalties allegedly not paid to the
federal government, treble damages, a civil penalty,
attorneys’ fees, and costs. In connection with our sale of
Kern River and Texas Gas, we agreed to indemnify the purchasers
for any liability relating to this claim, including legal fees.
The maximum amount of future payments that we could potentially
be required to pay under these indemnifications depends upon the
ultimate resolution of the claim and cannot currently be
determined. The amounts accrued for these indemnifications are
insignificant. Grynberg has also filed claims against
approximately 300 other energy companies alleging that the
defendants violated the False Claims Act in connection with the
measurement, royalty valuation and purchase of hydrocarbons. On
April 9, 1999, the DOJ announced that it was declining to
intervene in any of the Grynberg

qui tam

cases, including
the action filed in federal court in Colorado against us. On
October 21, 1999, the Panel on Multi-District Litigation
transferred all of the Grynberg

qui tam

cases,
including those filed against us, to the federal court in
Wyoming for pre-trial purposes. Grynberg’s measurement
claims remain pending against us and the other defendants; the
court previously dismissed Grynberg’s royalty valuation
claims.

On August 6, 2002, Jack J. Grynberg, and
Celeste C. Grynberg, Trustee on Behalf of the Rachel Susan
Grynberg Trust, and the Stephen Mark Grynberg Trust, served us
and Williams Production RMT Company with a complaint in the
state court in Denver, Colorado. The complaint alleges that the
defendants have used mismeasurement techniques that distort the
BTU heating content of natural gas, resulting in the alleged
underpayment of royalties to Grynberg and other independent
natural gas producers. The complaint also alleges that
defendants inappropriately took deductions from the gross value
of their natural gas and made other royalty valuation errors.
Theories for relief include breach of contract, breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, anticipatory
repudiation, declaratory relief, equitable accounting, civil
theft, deceptive trade practices, negligent misrepresentation,
deceit based on fraud, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, and
violations of the state racketeering statute. Plaintiff is
seeking actual damages of between $2 million and
$20 million based on interest rate variations, and punitive
damages in the amount of approximately $1.4 million
dollars. Our motion to stay the proceedings in this case based
on the pendency of the False Claims Act litigation discussed in
the preceding paragraph was granted on January 15, 2003.

Securities class actions

Numerous shareholder class action suits have been
filed against us in the United States District Court for the
Northern District of Oklahoma. The majority of the suits allege
that we and co-defendants, WilTel and certain corporate
officers, have acted jointly and separately to inflate the stock
price of both companies. Other suits allege similar causes of
action related to a public offering in early January 2002, known
as the FELINE PACS offering. These cases were filed against us,
certain corporate officers, all members of our Board of
Directors and all of the offerings’ underwriters. These
cases have all been consolidated and an order has been issued
requiring separate amended consolidated complaints by our equity
holders and WilTel equity holders. The amended complaint of the
WilTel securities holders was filed on September 27, 2002,
and the amended complaint of our securities holders was filed on
October 7, 2002. This amendment added numerous claims
related to Power. In addition, four class action complaints have
been filed against us, the members of our Board of Directors and
members of our Benefits and Investment Committees under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) by
participants in our 401(k) plan. A motion to consolidate these
suits has been approved. On July 14, 2003, the Court
dismissed us and our Board from the ERISA suits, but not the
members of the Benefits and Investment Committees to whom we
might have an indemnity obligation. The Department of Labor is
also independently investigating our employee benefit plans. On
December 15, 2003, the court substantially denied the
defendants’ motion to dismiss in the shareholder suits.
Derivative shareholder suits have been filed in state court in
Oklahoma, all based on similar allegations. On August 1,



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2002, a motion to consolidate and a motion to
stay these Oklahoma suits pending action by the federal court in
the shareholder suits was approved.

Oklahoma securities investigation

On April 26, 2002, the Oklahoma Department
of Securities issued an order initiating an investigation of us
and WilTel regarding issues associated with the spin-off of
WilTel and regarding the WilTel bankruptcy. We have no pending
inquiries in this investigation, but are committed to cooperate
fully in the investigation.

Shell offshore litigation

On November 30, 2001, Shell Offshore, Inc.
filed a complaint at the FERC against Williams Gas
Processing — Gulf Coast Company, L.P. (WGP), Williams
Gulf Coast Gathering Company (WGCGC), Williams Field Services
Company (WFS) and Transco, alleging concerted actions by
the affiliates frustrating the FERC’s regulation of
Transco. The alleged actions are related to offers of gathering
service by WFS and its subsidiaries on the deregulated North
Padre Island offshore gathering system. On September 5,
2002, the FERC issued an order reasserting jurisdiction over
that portion of the North Padre Island facilities previously
transferred to WFS. The FERC also determined an unbundled
gathering rate for service on these facilities which is to be
collected by Transco. Transco, WGP, WGCGC and WFS believe their
actions were reasonable and lawful and each have filed petitions
for review of the FERC’s orders with the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia.

TAPS Quality Bank

Williams Alaska Petroleum, Inc. (WAPI) is
actively engaged in administrative litigation being conducted
jointly by the FERC and the Regulatory Commission of Alaska
concerning the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) Quality
Bank. Primary issues being litigated include the appropriate
valuation of the naphtha, heavy distillate, vacuum gas oil and
residual product cuts within the TAPS Quality Bank as well as
the appropriate retroactive effects of the determinations.
WAPI’s interest in these proceedings is material as the
matter involves claims by crude producers and the State of
Alaska for retroactive payments plus interest of up to
$180 million in excess of amounts previously paid by WAPI
or accrued at December 31, 2003. Because of the complexity
of the issues involved, however, the outcome cannot be predicted
with certainty nor can the likely result be quantified. Certain
periodic discussions have been held and continue among some of
the litigants. Because of the number of parties involved and the
diversity of positions, no comprehensive terms have been
identified that could be considered probable to achieve final
settlement among all parties. The FERC and RCA presiding
administrative law judges are expected to render their joint
and/or individual initial decision(s) sometime during the second
quarter of 2004.

Other divestiture indemnifications

Pursuant to various purchase and sale agreements
relating to divested businesses and assets, we have indemnified
certain purchasers against liabilities that they may incur with
respect to the businesses and assets acquired from us. The
indemnities provided to the purchasers are customary in sale
transactions and are contingent upon the purchasers incurring
liabilities that are not otherwise recoverable from third
parties. The indemnities generally relate to breach of
warranties, tax, historic litigation, personal injury,
environmental matters, right of way and other representations
that we have provided. At December 31, 2003, we do not
expect any of the indemnities provided pursuant to the sales
agreements to have a material impact on our future financial
position. However, if a claim for indemnity is brought against
us in the future, it may have a material adverse effect on
results of operations in the period in which the claim is made.

In addition to the foregoing, various other
proceedings are pending against us which are incidental to our
operations.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Summary

Litigation, arbitration, regulatory matters and
environmental matters are subject to inherent uncertainties.
Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the
possibility of a material adverse impact on the results of
operations in the period in which the ruling occurs. Management,
including internal counsel, currently believes that the ultimate
resolution of the foregoing matters, taken as a whole and after
consideration of amounts accrued, insurance coverage, recovery
from customers or other indemnification arrangements, will not
have a materially adverse effect upon our future financial
position.

Commitments

Power has entered into certain contracts giving
it the right to receive fuel conversion services as well as
certain other services associated with electric generation
facilities that are currently in operation throughout the
continental United States. At December 31, 2003,
Power’s estimated committed payments under these contracts
range from approximately $391 million to $422 million
annually through 2017 and decline over the remaining five years
to $57 million in 2022. Total committed payments under
these contracts over the next 19 years are approximately
$6.7 billion.

Note 17.

Related party transactions

Lehman Brothers Holdings,
    Inc.

Lehman Brothers Inc. is a related party as a
result of a director that serves on our Board of Directors and
Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc.’s Board of Directors. In
third-quarter 2002, RMT, a wholly owned subsidiary, entered into
a $900 million short-term Credit Agreement dated
July 31, 2002, with certain lenders including a subsidiary
of Lehman Brothers Inc. This debt obligation was paid in
second-quarter 2003 (see Note 11). Included in interest
accrued on the Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2003 and
2002, are $199.4 million and $154.1 million,
respectively, of interest expense, including amortization of
deferred set up fees related to the RMT note. As of
December 31, 2003, the amount due to Lehman Brothers, Inc.,
related primarily to advisory fees was $1.8 million. At
December 31, 2002, the amount payable related to the RMT
note and related interest was approximately $1 billion. In
addition, we paid $37.2 million, $39.6 million and
$27 million to Lehman Brothers Inc. in 2003, 2002, and
2001, respectively, primarily for underwriting fees related to
debt and equity issuances as well as strategic advisory and
restructuring success fees.

American Electric Power Company,
    Inc.

American Electric Power Company, Inc.
(AEP) is a related party as a result of a director that
serves on both our Board of Directors and AEP’s Board of
Directors. Our Power segment engaged in forward and physical
power and gas trading activities with AEP. Net revenues from AEP
were $264.6 million in 2002. There were no trading
activities with AEP in 2003. Amounts due to AEP were
$106.4 million as of December 31, 2002. Amounts
receivable from AEP were $215.1 million as of
December 31, 2002. During 2002, AEP disputed a settlement
amount related to the liquidation of a trading position with
Power. Arbitration was initiated and in 2003 AEP paid Power
$90 million to resolve the dispute.

ExxonMobil Corporation

ExxonMobil Corporation is a related party as a
result of a director that serves on both our Board of Directors
and ExxonMobil Corporation’s Board of Directors.
Transactions with ExxonMobil Corporation result primarily from
the purchase and sale of crude oil, refined products and natural
gas liquids in support of crude oil, refined products and
natural gas liquids trading activities and strategies as well as
revenues generated from gathering and processing activities.
Aggregate revenues from this customer, including those reported
on a net basis in 2002 and 2001, were $121.8 million,
$217.6 million and $38.9 million in 2003, 2002 and
2001,



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

respectively. Aggregate purchases from this
customer were $30.4 million, $15.6 million and
$6.4 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Amounts
due from ExxonMobil were $40.0 million and
$22.1 million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. Amounts due to ExxonMobil were $8.7 million
and $66.9 million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

Note 18.

Accumulated other comprehensive
    income

The table below presents changes in the
components of accumulated other comprehensive income.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The 2001 adjustment due to the spin-off of WilTel
includes unrealized appreciation (depreciation) on
securities and foreign currency translation balances that relate
to WilTel (see Note 2).

Available for sale securities

At December 31, 2003, we held
U.S. Treasury securities with a fair value of
$381.3 million. These securities mature within three to six
months. Gross unrealized losses of $3 million on these
securities are included in Accumulated Other Comprehensive
Income at December 31, 2003.

During 2003 we received proceeds totaling
$370.5 million from the sale and maturity of available for
sale securities. We realized gross gains and losses of
$14.4 million and $0.1 million, respectively, from
these transactions.

At December 31, 2002, we held marketable
equity securities for which gross unrealized gains of
$8.7 million were included in Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income.

Note 19. Segment disclosures

Segments and reclassification of
    operations

Our reportable segments are strategic business
units that offer different products and services. The segments
are managed separately because each segment requires different
technology, marketing strategies and industry knowledge. The
segment formerly named Energy Marketing & Trading is
now named Power. The Petroleum Services segment is now reported
within Other as the result of a significant portion of its
assets being reflected as discontinued operations. Segment
amounts have been restated to reflect this change. Other
primarily consists of corporate operations and certain
continuing operations previously reported within the
International and Petroleum Services segments.

Segment amounts for 2002 and 2001 reflect the
reclassification of the Petroleum Services segment to Other.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Segments — performance
    measurement

We currently evaluate performance based on
segment profit (loss) from operations, which includes revenues
from external and internal customers, operating costs and
expenses, depreciation, depletion and amortization, equity
earnings (losses) and income (loss) from investments including
gains/losses on impairments related to investments accounted for
under the equity method. The accounting policies of the segments
are the same as those described in Note 1, Summary of
significant accounting policies. Intersegment sales are
generally accounted for at current market prices as if the sales
were to unaffiliated third parties.

Power has entered into intercompany interest rate
swaps with the corporate parent, the effect of which is included
in Power’s segment revenues and segment profit (loss) as
shown in the reconciliation within the following tables. The
results of interest rate swaps with external counterparties are
shown as interest rate swap income (loss) in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations below operating income.

The majority of energy commodity hedging by
certain of our business units is done through intercompany
derivatives with Power which, in turn, enters into offsetting
derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. Power bears
the counterparty performance risks associated with unrelated
third parties.

The following geographic area data includes
revenues from external customers based on product shipment
origin and long-lived assets based upon physical location.

The increase in revenues in 2003 is due primarily
to the adoption of EITF 02-3 in 2003, which requires that
revenues and costs of sale from non-derivative contracts and
certain physically settled derivative contracts be reported on a
gross basis. Prior to the adoption, these revenues were
presented net of costs. As permitted by EITF 02-3, prior
year amounts have not been restated. Results for 2003 include
approximately $117 million of revenue related to the
correction of the accounting treatment previously applied to
certain third party derivative contracts during 2002 and 2001.

Long-lived assets are comprised of property,
plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

*

Prior to January 1, 2003, Power intercompany
    cost of sales, which are netted in revenues consistent with
    fair-value accounting, exceed intercompany revenues. Beginning
    January 1, 2003, Power intercompany cost of sales are no
    longer netted in revenues due to the adoption of EITF Issue
    No. 02-3 (see Note 1). Segment revenues and profit for
    Power include net realized and unrealized mark-to market gains
    of $401 million from derivative contracts accounted for on
    a fair value basis for the year ended December 31, 2003.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(1)

The decrease in Power’s total assets is
    largely due to the decrease in energy risk management and
    trading assets as a result of the adoption of EITF 02-3
    (see Note 1).



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA

(Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly financial data are as
follows (millions, except per-share amounts). Certain amounts
have been restated or reclassified as described in Note 1
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The sum of earnings per share for the four
quarters may not equal the total earnings per share for the year
due to changes in the average number of common shares
outstanding and rounding.

Net loss for fourth-quarter 2003 includes the
following items which are pre-tax:



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL
DATA — (Continued)

Net income for third-quarter 2003 includes the
following items which are pre-tax:

Net income for second-quarter 2003 includes the
following items which are pre-tax:

Net loss for first-quarter 2003 includes the
following items which are pre-tax:

•

$13.7 million of revenue attributable to
    prior periods relating to the accounting treatment previously
    applied to certain third party derivative contracts during 2002
    and 2001 and recorded prior to the $80.7 million correction
    in second-quarter at Power (see Note 1),

•

$12.0 million impairment of a cost based
    investment in Algar Telecom S.A. at Other (see Note 3),

•

$761.3 million cumulative effect of change
    in accounting principles related to the adoption of EITF Issue
    No. 02-3 and SFAS No. 143 (see Note 1),



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL
DATA — (Continued)

•

$92.2 million income from discontinued
    operations (see Note 2), and

•

$117.3 million loss from discontinued
    operations for impairments and net losses on sales (see
    Note 2).

Net loss for fourth-quarter 2002 includes the
following items which are pre-tax:

Net loss for third-quarter 2002 includes the
following items which are pre-tax:

Net loss for second-quarter 2002 includes the
following items which are pre-tax:



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC

QUARTERLY FINANCIAL
DATA — (Continued)

Net income for first-quarter 2002 includes the
following items which are pre-tax:

•

$232.0 million charge, included in
    continuing operations, related to estimated losses from an
    assessment of the recoverability of WilTel related receivables
    (see Note 2),

•

$137.9 million income from discontinued
    operations (see Note 2), and

•

$38.1 million loss from discontinued
    operations for impairments and net losses on sales (see
    Note 2).



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS DISCLOSURES

(Unaudited)

The following information pertains to our oil and
gas producing activities and is presented in accordance with
SFAS No. 69, “Disclosures About Oil and Gas
Producing Activities.” The information is required to be
disclosed by geographic region. We have significant oil and gas
producing activities primarily in the Rocky Mountain and
Mid-continent areas of the United States. Additionally, we have
oil and gas producing activities in Argentina and Venezuela.
However, proved reserves and revenues related to these
activities are approximately 7.3 percent and
4.2 percent, respectively, of our total international and
domestic oil and gas producing activities. The following
information relates only to the oil and gas activities in the
United States and includes the activities of those properties
that qualified for reporting as discontinued operations in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations.

Capitalized costs

•

Capitalized costs include the cost of equipment
    and facilities for oil and gas producing activities. These
    amounts for 2003 and 2002 do not include approximately
    $1 billion of goodwill related to the purchase of Barrett
    Resources Corp. (Barrett) in 2001.

•

Proved properties include capitalized costs for
    oil and gas leaseholds holding proved reserves; development
    wells and related equipment and facilities (including
    uncompleted development well costs); successful exploratory
    wells and related equipment and facilities (and uncompleted
    exploratory well costs) and support equipment.

•

Unproved properties consist primarily of acreage
    related to probable reserves acquired through the Barrett
    acquisition in addition to a small portion of unproved
    exploratory acreage.

Costs incurred

•

Costs incurred include capitalized and expensed
    items.

•

Acquisition costs include costs incurred to
    purchase, lease, or otherwise acquire a property, the majority
    of the 2001 costs relates to the Barrett acquisition during 2001.

•

Exploration costs include the costs of geological
    and geophysical activity, dry holes, drilling and equipping
    exploratory wells, and the cost of retaining undeveloped
    leaseholds.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS
DISCLOSURES — (Continued)

•

Development costs include costs incurred to gain
    access to and prepare development well locations for drilling
    and to drill and equip development wells.

Results of operations

*

Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform
    to current presentation.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS
DISCLOSURES — (Continued)

production activity. Excluded are depreciation,
    depletion and amortization of capitalized acquisition,
    exploration and development costs.

•

Exploration expenses include unsuccessful
    exploratory dry hole costs, leasehold impairment, geological and
    geophysical expenses and the cost of retaining undeveloped
    leaseholds.

•

Depreciation, depletion and amortization includes
    depreciation of support equipment.

Proved reserves

•

The SEC defines proved oil and gas reserves
    (Rule 4-10(a) of Regulation S-X) as the estimated
    quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids
    which geological and engineering data demonstrate with
    reasonable certainty are recoverable in future years from known
    reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Our
    proved reserves consist of two categories, proved developed
    reserves and proved undeveloped reserves. Proved developed
    reserves are currently producing wells and wells awaiting minor
    sales connection expenditure, recompletion, additional
    perforations or borehole stimulation treatments. Proved
    undeveloped reserves are those reserves which are expected to be
    recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing
    wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for
    recompletion. Proved reserves on undrilled acreage are limited
    to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are
    reasonably certain of production when drilled or where it can be
    demonstrated with certainty that there is continuity of
    production from the existing productive formation.

•

Natural gas reserves are computed at 14.73 pounds
    per square inch absolute and 60 degrees Fahrenheit. Crude oil
    reserves are insignificant and have been included in the proved
    reserves on a basis of billion cubic feet equivalents (Bcfe).

Standardized measure of discounted future net
cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserves

The following is based on the estimated
quantities of proved reserves and the year-end prices and costs.
The average year end natural gas prices used in the following
estimates were $5.28, $3.85, and $2.31 per mmcfe at
December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Future
income tax expenses have been computed considering available
carryforwards and credits and the appropriate statutory tax
rates. The discount rate of 10 percent is as prescribed by
SFAS No. 69. Continuation of year-end economic
conditions also is assumed. The calculation is based on
estimates of proved reserves, which are revised over time as new
data becomes available. Probable or possible reserves, which may
become proved in the future, are not considered. The calculation
also requires assumptions as to the timing of future production
of proved reserves, and the timing and amount of future
development and production costs. Of the $1,303 million of
future development costs, $192 million, $277 million
and $186 million are estimated to be spent in 2004, 2005
and 2006, respectively.



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS
DISCLOSURES — (Continued)

Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating
volumes and the value of proved reserves and in projecting
future production rates and timing of development expenditures.
Such reserve estimates are subject to change as additional
information becomes available. The reserves actually recovered
and the timing of production may be substantially different from
the reserve estimates.

Standardized measure of discounted future net
cash flows

Sources of change in standardized measure of
discounted future net cash flows



THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND
QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with
    Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

An evaluation of the effectiveness of the design
and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15(d)-(e) of the
Securities Exchange Act) (Disclosure Controls) was performed as
of the end of the period covered by this report. This evaluation
was performed under the supervision and with the participation
of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and
Chief Financial Officer. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that,
subject to the limitations noted below, these Disclosure
Controls are effective.

Our management, including our Chief Executive
Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our
Disclosure Controls or its internal controls over financial
reporting (Internal Controls) will prevent all errors and all
fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and
operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance
that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the
design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are
resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be
considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent
limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls
can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and
instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been
detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that
judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns
can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally,
controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some
persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management
override of the control. The design of any system of controls
also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the
likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that
any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all
potential future conditions. Because of the inherent limitations
in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error
or fraud may occur and not be detected. We monitor our
Disclosure Controls and Internal Controls and make modifications
as necessary; our intent in this regard is that the Disclosure
Controls and the Internal Controls will be modified as systems
change and conditions warrant.

As further described in Note 1 of our
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, we have
corrected certain prior period items related to our Power
business. A significant portion of the adjustments related to
the accounting treatment of certain derivative contract
terminations occurring in 2001. These adjustments were
identified in 2003 because of additional analysis of account
reconciliations. As a result, changes were made earlier in 2003
to improve Power’s processes of accounting for and
monitoring of these types of transactions. Additionally, we have
identified certain portions of our account reconciliation
process whereby the controls and policies are in the process of
being enhanced across all business segments.

Notwithstanding the above, management believes
that its current controls are effective. In addition, there has
been no material change in our Internal Controls that occurred
during the registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter.

PART III

Item 10.

Directors and Executive Officers of the
    Registrant

The information regarding our directors and
nominees for director required by Item 401 of
Regulation S-K will be presented under the headings
“Board of Directors — Board Committees”,
“Election of Directors”, and “Principal
Accounting Fees and Services” in our Proxy Statement
prepared for the solicitation of proxies in connection with our
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 20, 2004
(Proxy Statement), which information is incorporated by
reference herein.

Information regarding our executive officers
required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is presented as
Item 4A herein as permitted by General Instruction G(3) to
Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of
Regulation S-K.



Information required by Item 405 of
Regulation S-K will be included under the heading
“Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934” in our Proxy Statement, which
information is incorporated by reference herein.

We have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to
our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and
Controller, or persons performing similar functions. The Code of
Ethics, together with our Corporate Governance Principles, the
charters for each of our board committees, and our Code of
Business Conduct applicable to all employees are available on
our Internet website at

http://williams.com

. We will
provide, free of charge, a copy of our Code of Ethics or any of
our other corporate documents listed above upon written request
to our Secretary at Williams, One Williams Center,
Suite 4100, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74172. We intend to disclose
any amendments to or waivers of the Code of Ethics on behalf of
our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
Controller, and persons performing similar functions on our
Internet website at

http://williams.com

under the
Investor Relations caption, promptly following the date of any
such amendment or waiver.

Item 11.

Executive Compensation

The information required by Item 402 of
Regulation S-K regarding executive compensation will be
presented under the headings “Board of Directors” and
“Executive Compensation and Other Information” in our
Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by reference
herein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the information provided
under the headings “Compensation Committee Report on
Executive Compensation” and “Stockholder Return
Performance Presentation” in our Proxy Statement is not
incorporated by reference herein.

Item 12.

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
    Owners and Management

The information regarding the security ownership
of certain beneficial owners and management required by
Item 403 of Regulation S-K will be presented under the
headings “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management” in our Proxy Statement, which information
is incorporated by reference herein.



EQUITY COMPENSATION STOCK PLANS

Securities authorized for issuance under
equity compensation plans

The following table provides information
concerning our common stock that may be issued upon the exercise
of options, warrants and rights under all of our existing equity
compensation plans as of December 31, 2003, including The
Williams Companies, Inc. 2002 Incentive Plan, The Williams
Companies, Inc. 2001 Stock Plan, The Williams Companies, Inc.
Stock Plan for Non-Officer Employees, The Williams Companies,
Inc. 1996 Stock Plan, The Williams International Stock Plan, The
Williams Companies, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan for Non-Employee
Directors, The Williams Companies, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan
for Non-Employee Directors, The Williams Companies, Inc. 1990
Stock Plan and The Williams Communications Stock Plan.

(1)

As described in Note 14 of our Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, these plans were terminated
    upon shareholder approval of the 2002 Incentive Plan. Options
    outstanding in these plans remain in the plans subject to their
    terms. Those options generally expire 10 years after the grant
    date.

(2)

Includes 2,262,386 shares of deferred stock.

(3)

Excludes the shares of deferred stock included in
    the 1st column of this table for which there is no
    weighted-average price.

Item 13.

Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions

The information regarding certain relationships
and related transactions required by Item 404 of
Regulation S-K will be presented under the heading
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” in
our Proxy Statement, which information is incorporated by
reference herein.

Item 14.

Principal Accounting Fees and
    Services

The information regarding our principal
accountant fees and services required by Item 9(e) of
Schedule 14A will be presented under the heading
“Principal Accounting Fees and Services” in our Proxy
Statement, which information is incorporated by reference herein.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules,
    and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1 and 2.

All other schedules have been omitted since the
required information is not present or is not present in amounts
sufficient to require submission of the schedule, or because the
information required is included in the financial statements and
notes thereto.

(a) 3 and (c). The exhibits listed below are
filed as part of this annual report.

INDEX TO EXHIBITS









*

Each such exhibit has heretofore been filed with
    the SEC as part of the filing indicated and is incorporated
    herein by reference.



(b) Reports on Form 8-K. During
fourth-quarter 2003, we filed the following Form 8-Ks:

(d) The financial statements of partially
owned companies are not presented herein since none of them
individually, or in the aggregate, constitute a significant
subsidiary.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

THE WILLIAMS COMPANIES, INC.

(Registrant)

By:

/s/ BRIAN K. SHORE

Brian K. Shore

Attorney-in-fact

Date: March 15, 2004

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.





INDEX TO EXHIBITS




*

Each such exhibit has heretofore been filed with
    the SEC as part of the filing indicated and is incorporated
    herein by reference.