
10-K
FORM 10-K



                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

X ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996

                                       OR

__TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
  SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
  For the transition period from             to

        Commission file number   1-12658

                              ALBEMARLE CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         VIRGINIA                                             54-1692118
(State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                            Identification No.)

330 SOUTH FOURTH STREET
P. O. BOX 1335
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA                                                23210
(Address of principal                                           (Zip Code)
 executive offices)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   804-788-6000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                                   Name of each exchange
                                                      on which registered

COMMON STOCK, $.01 Par Value                          NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by  Section  13 or 15(d) of the  Securi  ties  Exchange  Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter  period that the  registrant
was  required  to file such  reports),  and (2) has been  subject to such filing
requirements for at least the past 90 days.

Yes   X         No ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent  filers  pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation  S-K is not contained  herein,  and will not be contained,  to the
best of registrant's  knowledge,  in definitive proxy or information  statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. (  )

                                       (i)





Aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of December 31, 1996: $667,549,441.*

Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of December 31,
1996: 55,046,183.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
*In determining this figure,  an aggregate of 18,215,869  shares of Common Stock
reported in the  registrant's  Proxy  Statement  for the 1997 Annual  Meeting of
Shareholders as beneficially owned by Floyd D. Gottwald, Jr., Bruce C. Gottwald,
and the members of their  immediate  families  have been excluded and treated as
shares held by affiliates.  See Item 12 herein.  The aggregate  market value has
been computed on the basis of the closing  price in the New York Stock  Exchange
Composite  Transactions  on December  31,  1996,  as reported by The Wall Street
Journal.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.      Portions of Albemarle  Corporation's  Annual Report to Shareholders  for
        the year ended December 31, 1996 (the "Annual Report"), are incorporated
        by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this Form 10-K.

2.      Portions of Albemarle  Corporation's  definitive Proxy Statement for its
        1997 Annual Meeting of  Shareholders to be filed with the Securities and
        Exchange  Commission  pursuant to  Regulation  14A under the  Securities
        Exchange  Act of  1934  (the  "Proxy  Statement")  are  incorporated  by
        reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

                                      (ii)






                                     PART I

Item 1.          BUSINESS

        Albemarle  Corporation  ("the Company" or "Albemarle")  was incorporated
under the laws of the  Commonwealth  of  Virginia  on November  24,  1993,  as a
wholly-owned  subsidiary  of  Ethyl  Corporation  ("Ethyl").   Ethyl  thereafter
transferred to Albemarle Ethyl's olefins and derivatives,  bromine chemicals and
specialty  chemicals  businesses,  and, at the close of business on February 28,
1994, Ethyl distributed to its common shareholders all of the outstanding shares
of  Albemarle.  Since  February 28, 1994,  the Company has been a publicly  held
operating company.

        On March 1, 1996, the Company sold its alpha olefins, poly alpha olefins
and synthetic alcohols businesses ("Olefins Business") to Amoco Chemical Company
("Amoco").  After the sale,  Albemarle is engaged in the bromine  chemicals  and
specialty chemicals businesses.

        Unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated  statements of income for the
years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, which the Company believes are important
to enable the reader to obtain a meaningful understanding of Albemarle's results
of  operations  excluding the Olefins  Business,  are included in Note 18 of the
Notes to the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements of the Annual Report,  and are
incorporated herein by reference. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated
statements of income are for  informational  purposes only and do not purport to
be indicative of the Company's future consolidated results of operations of

                                       -3-






Albemarle or what the  consolidated  results of  operations  would have been had
Albemarle operated without the Olefins Business for all of 1996 and 1995.

Description of Business

        Albemarle  is  a  major  producer  of  fine  and  performance  chemicals
including polymer  intermediates,  cleaning product intermediates and additives,
agricultural chemical intermediates,  pharmaceutical  intermediates,  catalysts,
brominated  flame  retardants,  bromine  chemicals  and  potassium  and chlorine
chemicals. Albemarle employs approximately 2,800 people.

        The following  discussion of the Company's businesses as of December 31,
1996, should be read in conjunction with the information  contained in the "1996
Financial Review" section of Albemarle's  Annual Report as of December 31, 1996,
referred to in Item 7 that follows.

        The Company  conducts its  worldwide  chemicals  operations  through two
global business units -- bromine chemicals and specialty chemicals.

        Albemarle  manufactures  a broad range of  chemicals,  most of which are
additives to or intermediates  for plastics,  polymers and elastomers,  cleaning
products,  agricultural  compounds,  pharmaceuticals,   photographic  chemicals,
drilling  compounds and biocides.  Most sales of the Company's products are made
directly to manufacturers of the products  mentioned in the preceding  sentence,
including chemical and polymer companies, pharmaceutical

                                       -4-






companies,  cleaning product  manufacturers,  paper and photographic  companies,
drilling companies and water treatment companies.

        The Company  produces the majority of its products in the United  States
but also has a significant  production  facility in France and also has aluminum
alkyls  produced for it by Amoco at the Company's  former Feluy,  Belgium plant.
The processes and  technology  for most of these  products were developed in the
Company's or its predecessor's research and development laboratories.

        Products of the bromine chemicals  business include  elemental  bromine,
flame retardants,  alkyl bromides,  inorganic bromides, a number of bromine fine
chemicals,  potassium  chemicals and chlorine.  Applications  for these products
primarily  exist  in  chemical  synthesis,  polymer  products,  oil and gas well
drilling and  completion  fluids,  water  purification,  glass making,  cleaning
products,   soil  fumigation  and  chemical  intermediates  for  pharmaceutical,
photographic and agricultural  chemicals.  The remaining products of the olefins
and  derivatives  business  which  were not sold to Amoco,  operate as a part of
bromine  chemicals as the  surfactants  and biocides  business.  These  products
include  tertiary  amines  for  surfactants  and  biocides,   disinfectants  and
sanitizers;  zeolite A (sodium alumina silicate) used as a phosphate replacement
in laundry  detergent  builders;  and alkenyl  succinic  anhydride (ASA) used in
paper-sizing  formulations.  These  businesses have many varied  customers.  The
products are sold to

                                       -5-






suppliers of household,  institutional  and industrial  cleaners,  personal care
products and industrial products.

        In most bromine  chemicals  product lines the Company's  plants operated
below  capacity  during 1996,  with the exception of SAYTEX(R)  BT-93(R)W  which
operated at full capacity. An expansion of brine field and bromine capacities at
the Company's  Magnolia,  Arkansas facility that started in 1995, was continued.
The  overall  result  of the  current  phase of the  program  will be a  bromine
production capacity increase of thirty (30) percent.  Also expanded in 1996 were
plant  capacities to produce  SAYTEX(R) 8010,  SAYTEX RB-49,  SAYTEX  BT-93(R)R,
SAYTEX BT-93W and SAYTEX RB-100 flame retardants. The Company continues to focus
on  expansion of its bromine  production  capabilities  and an expanded  mineral
leasing program.

        The  Company's  subsidiary  Albemarle  PPC ("APPC")  operates a plant in
Thann,  France.  APPC is one of the  world's  largest  producers  of organic and
inorganic brominated  compounds used mainly in pharmaceutical,  photographic and
agricultural chemical intermediates.  APPC also operates an electrolysis unit to
produce  high-purity  caustic potash and potassium  carbonate used in the glass,
water  treatment,  cleaning  product and food  industries.  A 20%  expansion  of
manufacturing capability at the Company's organic bromide production facility in
Thann,  France was completed in 1996 to satisfy growing market needs for bromine
fine chemicals and our own captive demand for an intermediate  for production of
naproxen. APPC strengthens the Company's position in bromine chemicals and

                                       -6-






provides  substantial  additional  manufacturing  and research  and  development
capabilities in Europe.

        The specialty  chemicals  business  produces a broad range of chemicals,
including  pharmaceutical  and agricultural  intermediates,  polymer  curatives,
catalysts and antioxidants.

        The  Company's  primary  pharmaceutical  intermediate,  ibuprofen,  is a
widely-used pharmaceutical that provides fever reduction and temporary relief of
aches and pains and menstrual cramps.  Bulk ibuprofen is formulated into tablets
by  pharmaceutical  companies who sell to customers in both the prescription and
over-the-counter  markets.  Ibuprofen  products account for more than 25% of the
U.S.  over-the-counter  analgesic market. They compete against other painkillers
containing aspirin,  acetaminophen,  ketoprofen and naproxen. The Company is one
of the world's largest producers of ibuprofen.

        During 1995 and 1996, existing facilities were modified to provide a 500
metric ton commercial  production  capability  for bulk  naproxen.  In 1997, the
Company  plans to start up  commercial  production of bulk naproxen with initial
sales commencing as customers obtain U.S. Food and Drug  Administration  ("FDA")
approval.

        Agricultural  intermediates  are sold to chemical  companies that supply
finished  products to farmers,  governments and others.  These products  include
orthoalkylated  anilines for the acetanilide  family of pre-emergent  herbicides
used on corn,  soybeans  and other  crops,  and  organophosphorus  products  for
insecticide use. A new

                                       -7-






agricultural  intermediate (an urease  inhibitor),  primarily for use on corn to
improve  the   effectiveness  of  nitrogen-based   fertilizers,   is  undergoing
commercial-scale trials and expanded testing in 1997.

        Aluminum   alkyls  are  used  as   co-catalysts  in  the  production  of
polyolefins,  such as polyethylene and polypropylene,  elastomers, alpha olefins
such as hexene,  octene, and decene, and organotin heat stabilizers,  and in the
preparation  of organic  intermediates.  The Company has continued to expand and
debottleneck its production  capacity at Pasadena,  Texas and Orangeburg,  South
Carolina.  It has also  strengthened  its  supply  chain  for  methylaluminoxane
("MAO"),  a co-catalyst  used in  metallocene  catalyst  systems,  by increasing
capacity for MAO and for the key raw  materials  needed to make MAO. The Company
has  continued  to build its  organometallics  base and expand the  portfolio of
products and  capabilities it offers its customers  pursuing the development and
commercialization of metallocene based polymers.

        The Company is also expanding its efforts in polymer curatives, products
used to control polyurethane and epoxy system polymerization.  Also produced are
antioxidants  and  alkylated  hindered  phenolics  that are used to maintain the
performance integrity of thermoplastic resins.

        In most specialty  chemicals product lines the Company's plants operated
near  capacity  during 1996,  with the  exception of bulk  ibuprofen  and halide
aluminum alkyls which had excess capacity.  An expansion in alkylated  aromatics
capacity  was  started  in 1995 and  completed  in 1996 at one of the  Company's
facilities.

                                       -8-






        The Company operates on a worldwide basis with (i) a manufacturing plant
located in France in addition to facilities in the United  States,  (ii) offices
and distribution  terminals in Belgium,  France,  Japan and Singapore as well as
the United States and (iii)  offices in the People's  Republic of China and Hong
Kong. The Company has no  significant  assets in countries in which those assets
would be deemed to be exposed to  substantial  risk.  See Note 17 -- "Geographic
Area  Information"  of Notes to The  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  in the
Annual Report.

Competition

     The Company operates in a highly competitive marketplace, competing against
a number of other companies in each of its product lines. Some markets involve a
significant  number  of  competitors,  while  others  involve  only a  few.  The
competitors of the Company are both larger and smaller in terms of resources and
market share. Competition generally is based on product performance,  reputation
for quality,  price and customer  service and support.  The degree and nature of
competition depends on the type of product involved.

        In general,  the Company  competes in all of its markets on the basis of
the  quality  and  price  of its  products  as well  as  customer  services,  by
maintaining  a broad range of products and by focusing  resources on products in
which the Company has a competitive advantage.  The Company endeavors to improve
its reputation for quality products,  competitive  prices and excellent customer
service

                                       -9-






and  support.  Competition  in  connection  with all of the  Company's  products
requires continuing investments in research and development, product and process
improvements   and  specialized   customer   services.   Through   research  and
development,  the Company and its subsidiaries  will seek to increase margins by
introducing value-added products and products based on proprietary technologies.

Raw Materials

        Raw materials used by the Company include ethylene,  potassium chloride,
aluminum,  ortho-toluidine,  bisphenol-A, chlorine, phenol, isobutylene, caustic
soda, toluene, diphenyl oxide, sodium silicate, dimethlyamine, maleic anhydride,
ethanol,  phosphorus,  sulfuric acid, hydrogen cyanide, and nitrogen, as well as
electricity and natural gas as fuels,  most of which are readily  available from
numerous  suppliers and are purchased or provided under  contracts at prices the
Company believes are competitive.  The Company also produces bromine in Arkansas
from its extensive  brine  reserves  backed by an active  leasing  program.  The
Company  has  signed  supply  agreements  with  the Dead  Sea  Bromine  group of
companies.  The contracts  essentially  cover the bromine  requirements  for the
production of bromine fine chemicals in our Thann,  France  facility and provide
additional bromine if requested for the Company's other bromine needs.

                                      -10-






Major Customers

        Due to the diversity of product lines in which the Company competes,  no
major portion of the  Company's  sales or earnings was generated by one customer
nor is the Company overly  reliant on contracts with any one public,  private or
governmental entity.

        Several of the  Company's  customers  manufacture  products for cyclical
industries such as the  agricultural,  automotive,  electronics and building and
construction  industries.  As a result,  demand for the  products of the Company
from  customers  in  such  industries  also  is  cyclical.   In  addition,   the
profitability of sales of certain of the Company's products depends on the level
of industry plant capacity utilization.

     Due to the diversity and size of the Company's operations,  there is little
seasonal  variation  in revenues or  earnings,  except for certain  agricultural
products. 

Significant Developments Since Last Form 10-K

        On March 1, 1996, the Company announced the sale of its Olefins Business
to Amoco for  $487.3  million,  including  plant and  equipment,  other  assets,
inventory and accounts  receivable  net of expenses and related  trade  payables
paid by the Company.

        The sale involved the transfer of approximately 550 people who supported
these  businesses.  Certain assets located  primarily in Pasadena,  Texas,  Deer
Park,  Texas and Feluy,  Belgium  were  included  in the sale.  The  transaction
included numerous  operating and service  agreements  primarily  focusing on the
sharing of common facilities at the Pasadena,  Texas plant and the operation for
the

                                      -11-






Company of the  aluminum  alkyls  portion of the Feluy  Plant site by Amoco.  In
connection with the sale of the Olefins  Business,  the Company also implemented
an  early-retirement  and  work-force  reduction  program for  certain  salaried
employees.  The  effort is  expected  to result in annual  cost  savings  to the
Company.  A Form 8-K report  relating to the sale was filed with the  Securities
and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on March 15, 1996.

        On April 1, 1996, the Company  purchased  9,484,465 shares of its common
stock,  at a price of $23 per share plus expenses for a total  aggregate cost of
$219.4  million,  through  a tender  offer,  which  began  on March 4,  1996 and
concluded on April 1, 1996.  A Form 13E-4 for  Albemarle  Corporation  was filed
with the SEC on March 4, 1996. Later in 1996 the Company purchased an additional
1,756,500 shares for $32.1 million,  at an average price of $18.25 per share, in
market transactions.

Research and Patents

     The Company's research and development  supports each of the major business
areas.

        With  respect to bromine  chemicals,  the  research  focus is on new and
improved  flame  retardants  targeted  to satisfy  increasing  market  needs for
performance   and   quality   in   products   manufactured   from   polystyrene,
acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene (ABS) and engineered thermoplastics. Development
efforts are focused on  efficiently  debottlenecking  plant capacity to meet the
strong demand for the above businesses and additionally on expanding and

                                      -12-






developing  new markets for bromine fine  chemicals.  This effort is expected to
continue through 1997.

        The  primary  focus of  specialty  chemicals'  research  in 1996 was new
catalysts (metallocenes),  new pharmaceutical intermediates and new agricultural
intermediates. This effort is expected to continue into 1997 and beyond.

        In addition to the U.S. research facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, the
Company's  European  businesses  are  supported by the research and  development
facilities  at  Louvain-la-Neuve,  Belgium,  and  Thann,  France,  as well as at
various other plant locations.

        The Company spent approximately  $30.4 million,  $29.5 million and $28.1
million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, on research and development, which
amounts  qualified  under the  technical  accounting  definition of research and
development.  Total R&D  department  spending  for 1996 was some $43.7  million,
including $13.3 million related to technical  services  support to customers and
the Company's  plants,  testing of existing  products,  cost reduction,  quality
improvement and environmental studies.

        The  Company  considers  patents,  licenses  and  trademarks  to  be  of
significance  to its business.  As of December 31, 1996,  the Company owned more
than 1,200 active United States and foreign  patents,  including 23 U.S. patents
and 64 foreign  patents  issued in 1996.  Some of these  patents are licensed to
others. In addition, rights under the patents and inventions of others have been
acquired by the Company through licenses. The Company's patent

                                      -13-






position is actively  managed and is deemed by it to be adequate for the conduct
of its business.

Environmental Regulation

        The Company is subject to federal, state, local and foreign requirements
regulating the handling,  manufacture and use of materials (some of which may be
classified  as  hazardous  or toxic  by one or more  regulatory  agencies),  the
discharge  of  materials  into  the   environment  and  the  protection  of  the
environment.  To the best of the  Company's  knowledge,  Albemarle  is currently
complying  with and expects to continue to comply in all material  respects with
all existing  environmental  laws,  regulations,  statutes and ordinances.  Such
compliance with federal, state, local and foreign environmental  protection laws
has not in the past had, and is not  expected to have in the future,  a material
effect on earnings or the competitive position of Albemarle.

        Among other  environmental  requirements,  the Company is subject to the
federal  Superfund  law, and similar state laws,  under which the Company may be
designated  as a  potentially  responsible  party  (PRP) and may be liable for a
share of the costs  associated  with cleaning up various  hazardous waste sites.
Management  believes  that in most  cases,  the  Company's  participation  is de
minimis.  Further, almost all such sites represent environmental issues that are
quite mature and have been investigated,  studied and, in many cases, settled by
the Company or its predecessor company. In de minimis PRP matters, the Company's
policy generally is to negotiate a

                                      -14-






consent decree and to pay any apportioned settlement, enabling the Company to be
effectively  relieved  of any  further  liability  as a PRP,  except  for remote
contingencies.  In other than de minimis  PRP  matters,  the  Company's  records
indicate that unresolved exposures should be immaterial. The Company accrues and
expenses its proportionate  share of PRP costs in accordance with FASB Statement
No. 5 "Accounting for  Contingencies"  and FASB  Interpretation  No. 14. Because
management has been actively involved in evaluating  environmental  matters, the
Company is able to conclude that the outstanding  environmental  liabilities for
unresolved PRP sites should not be material.

        Albemarle's environmental operating and safety costs charged to expense,
which are not considered to be normal operating costs, were approximately  $11.5
million in 1996 versus  approximately  $9.0  million in 1995 and $8.9 million in
1994, excluding depreciation of previous capital expenditures,  and are expected
to be  approximately  in the same  range  over the next  few  years.  Costs  for
remediation  have been accrued and payments related to sites are charged against
accrued  liabilities,  which at December  31, 1996  totaled  approximately  $8.2
million.  There is a reasonable  possibility  that future  remediation  costs in
excess of amounts  already  recorded  could amount to $7.0 million before income
taxes.  However,  the Company believes that any sum it may be required to pay in
connection  with  environmental  remediation  matters  in excess of the  amounts
recorded  would  occur  over a period  of time and  should  not have a  material
adverse impact on its financial condition or

                                      -15-






results of operations,  but could have a material adverse impact in a particular
reporting period.

        Capital expenditures for pollution-abatement and safety projects for the
Company,  including  such  costs  that  are  included  in other  projects,  were
approximately  $14.7  million,  $22 million and $20.3 million in 1996,  1995 and
1994,  respectively.  For each of the next few years,  capital  expenditures for
these  types  of  projects  are  likely  to be in the same  range.  Management's
estimates of the effects of compliance with governmental pollution-abatement and
safety  regulations  are  subject  to (i)  the  possibility  of  changes  in the
applicable   statutes  and   regulations   or  in  judicial  or   administrative
construction of such statutes and regulations and (ii) uncertainty as to whether
anticipated  solutions  to  pollution  problems  will be  successful  or whether
additional expenditures may prove necessary.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION AS TO INDUSTRY SEGMENTS AND GEOGRAPHIC AREAS

        The  Company's   operations  are  substantially  all  in  the  chemicals
industry. Geographic area information for the Company's operations for the three
years ended December 31, 1996, is presented in the Annual Report on page 14 (and
Note  17 to  the  Consolidated  Financial  Statements  on  pages  35-36)  and is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                      -16-






FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES

        Financial   information   about  the  Company's   foreign  and  domestic
operations  and export sales for the three years ended December 31, 1996, is set
forth  in the  Annual  Report  on page 14 and in  Note  17 of the  Notes  to The
Consolidated  Financial Statements on pages 35- 36 and is incorporated herein by
reference. Domestic export sales to non-affiliates may be made worldwide but are
made  primarily  in the Far East,  Latin  America and  Europe.  Sales by foreign
subsidiaries are primarily in Europe, the Middle East and the Far East.

Item 2.  PROPERTIES

        The  Company's  principal  executive  offices  are  located at 330 South
Fourth  Street,  Richmond,  Virginia  23219,  and its  principal  administrative
offices are located at 451 Florida Street,  Baton Rouge,  Louisiana  70801.  The
Company  leases its executive  offices and  administrative  offices in Richmond,
Virginia;  and Baton Rouge,  Louisiana;  and its  regional  offices in Brussels,
Belgium;  Singapore;  and  Tokyo,  Japan;  as well as  various  sales  and other
offices.

                                      -17-






        The following is a brief description of the principal plants and related
facilities of the Company, all of which are owned ex cept as stated below.

        LOCATION                                PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS
        --------                                --------------------
Baton Rouge, Louisiana                      Research and product-development
(2 facilities, one on leased                activities
land)

Pasadena,  Texas                            Production  of  aluminum  alkyls,
                                            alkenyl    succinic    anhydride,
                                            orthoalkylated    anilines    and
                                            phenols,   zeolite  A  and  other
                                            chemicals; research activities

Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium                   Research and customer technical
                                            service activities

Magnolia, Arkansas                          Production of flame retardants and
(West Plant)                                bromine

Magnolia, Arkansas                          Production  of flame  retardants,
(South Plant)                               bromine,    ethylene   dibromide,
                                            several    inorganic    bromides,
                                            agricultural             chemical
                                            intermediates,    and    tertiary
                                            amines; research activities

Orangeburg,   South  Carolina               Production      of      specialty
                                            chemicals,              including
                                            pharmaceutical     intermediates,
                                            fuel     additives,     manganese
                                            antiknocks,        orthoalkylated
                                            phenols  and  polymer  modifiers;
                                            research activities

Thann, France                               Production    of   organic    and
                                            inorganic              brominated
                                            pharmaceutical,  photographic and
                                            agrochemical       intermediates,
                                            high-purity  caustic  potash  and
                                            potassium   carbonate;    product
                                            development activities

Feluy,  Belgium                             Production of aluminum alkyls
(Leased by Amoco  under a 99 year
lease   but   operated   for  the
Company)



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                      -18-






        The Company  currently is adding  capacity in the flame  retardants  and
specialty  chemicals  areas.  The Company  believes  that its plants,  including
planned  expansions,  will be  adequate  at  projected  sales  levels  for 1997.
Operating  rates of certain  plants vary with  product  mix and normal  seasonal
sales swings. The Company believes that its plants generally are well maintained
and in good operating condition.

Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

        The Company and its subsidiaries are involved from time to time in legal
proceedings   of  types   regarded  as  common  in  the  Company's   businesses,
particularly  administrative or judicial  proceedings  seeking remediation under
environmental laws, such as Superfund, and products liability litigation.

        While it is not  possible  to predict or  determine  the  outcome of the
proceedings presently pending, in the Company's opinion they will not ultimately
result in any  liability  that  would have a material  adverse  effect  upon the
results of operations or financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries
on a consolidated basis.

        An administrative  proceeding with the federal  Occupational  Safety and
Health  Administration  (OSHA),  involving  a  potential  penalty  in  excess of
$100,000,  but not more than $119,000,  was previously reported in the Company's
1996  reports  on Form  10-Q.  The  Company  filed a notice  of  contest  and is
contesting vigorously. In the fourth quarter of 1996, OSHA issued two additional

                                      -19-






citations,  one of which involved a potential penalty in excess of $100,000, but
not more than $110,000.  The Company filed a notice of contest and is contesting
vigorously  these additional  citations.  Each of these citations arose out of a
series  of  unrelated  fires in the MEMC  Electronic  Materials,  Inc.  ("MEMC")
Polysilicon plant in Pasadena, Texas that was sold to MEMC but which is operated
by the Company under contract.

Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
        Inapplicable.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION - OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

        The names and ages of all officers of the Company,  as of March 1, 1997,
are set forth on the following  page. The term of office of each such officer is
until  the  meeting  of  the  Board  of  Directors  following  the  next  annual
shareholders'  meeting (April 23, 1997). All of such officers have been employed
by the Company or its  predecessor  for at least the last five  years,  with the
exception  of Dirk Betlem and William M.  Gottwald,  MD. Dirk Betlem  joined the
Company's  predecessor June 1, 1993,  following nearly 30 years with E.I. duPont
de Nemours in a variety of  management  positions in the U.S.  and Europe,  most
recently  as Vice  President,  Imaging  Systems  and  earlier  in a  variety  of
manufacturing  positions and management positions in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa.  William M. Gottwald joined  Albemarle after being associated with Ethyl
Corporation since 1981, most recently as senior vice president

                                      -20-






responsible  for finance,  planning and  information  resources.  He served as a
director and Executive Committee member of Albemarle from 1994 until early 1996.

                                      -21-






          Name                 Age              Office
- -----------------------        ---    --------------------------------
*Floyd D. Gottwald, Jr.        74     Chairman of the Board and of the
                                      Executive Committee, Chief
                                      Executive Officer, Director

*Charles B. Walker             58     Vice Chairman of the Board, Chief
                                      Financial Officer, Director

*Dirk Betlem                   58     President and Chief Operating
                                      Officer, Director

Thomas G. Avant                58     Senior Vice President - Finance
                                      and Managing Director Americas

E. Whitehead Elmore            58     Senior Vice President, General
                                      Counsel, Corporate Secretary

John G. Dabkowski              48     Vice President and General
                                      Manager - Specialty Chemicals

Dixie E. Goins                 46     Vice President - Research and
                                      Development

William M. Gottwald, MD        49     Vice President - Corporate
                                      Strategy and Secretary to the
                                      Executive Committee

Robert G. Kirchhoefer          56     Treasurer

Victor L. McDearman            52     Vice President and General
                                      Manager - Bromine Chemicals

Charles E. Moore               56     Vice President - Engineering

George A. Newbill              53     Vice President - Manufacturing

Gary L. Ter Haar               60     Vice President - Health and
                                      Environment

Michael D. Whitlow             45     Vice President - External Affairs
                                      and Investor Relations

Edward G. Woods                55     Vice President - Business
                                      Development

*Member of the Executive Committee

                                      -22-




Certain Agreements Between Albemarle and Ethyl

        Albemarle  and Ethyl entered into  agreements,  dated as of February 28,
1994,  pursuant  to which the  Company and Ethyl  agreed to  coordinate  certain
facilities and services of adjacent operating  facilities at plants in Pasadena,
Texas and Feluy,  Belgium.  Effective March 1, 1996, certain of these agreements
have  been  transferred  to  Amoco  as part of the  Olefins  Business  sale.  In
addition,  Albemarle and Ethyl,  as discussed in a previous  Form 10-K,  entered
into  agreements  providing  for the blending by Albemarle  for Ethyl of certain
products  and the  production  of  others  at the  Company's  Orangeburg,  South
Carolina, plant.

Certain Agreements Between Albemarle and MEMC

        Albemarle and MEMC entered into  agreements,  dated as of July 31, 1995,
pursuant to which the Company provides operating and support services to MEMC.

Pasadena, Texas Agreements

        The Pasadena,  Texas plant  consists of facilities for the production of
electronic  materials products.  Albemarle operates for MEMC the facilities that
produce  electronic  materials (the "MEMC  Pasadena Plant Site").  The operating
agreement  relating  to the  MEMC  Pasadena  Plant  Site  (the  "MEMC  Operating
Agreement")  provides that Albemarle will produce certain  electronic  materials
products  meeting  MEMC's   specifications  and  provide  certain  services  and
utilities customarily used by or reasonably necessary to

                                      -23-






maintain the MEMC Pasadena Plant Site in accordance  with design  capacity.  The
MEMC  Operating  Agreement  is a five year  agreement,  but after two years,  at
MEMC's  option,  and upon one year's  notice,  MEMC may terminate the agreement.
MEMC  reimburses  Albemarle  for certain costs  specified in the MEMC  Operating
Agreement and pays to Albemarle an annual operating fee. In addition,  Albemarle
shall  receive a bonus or shall  refund to MEMC a portion of the  operating  fee
dependent  upon  agreed  performance  criteria  for each  contract  year.  After
expiration or termination of the MEMC Operating Agreement, Albemarle will supply
certain  utilities  and services to the MEMC  Pasadena  Plant Site pursuant to a
utilities and services agreement (the "Utilities and Services  Agreement").  All
of the utilities and services are supplied at Albemarle's cost plus a percentage
fee.  Albemarle is to furnish  certain  utilities  and services for a minimum of
five years from the  effective  date of the  Utilities  and Services  Agreement,
subject to the right of MEMC to terminate any one or more  utilities or services
on twelve  months'  notice.  Albemarle will make available to MEMC certain other
utilities  and services  for the  duration of MEMC's lease of the property  upon
which the MEMC Pasadena Plant Site is located.

Certain Agreements between Albemarle and Amoco

        Albemarle and Amoco entered into agreements,  dated as of March 1, 1996,
pursuant to which the  Company  provides  operating  and  support  services  and
products  to Amoco,  and Amoco  provides  operating  and  support  services  and
products to Albemarle.

                                      -24-






Pasadena, Texas Agreements

        After the sale,  Amoco owns and operates  the linear  alpha  olefins and
synthetic  alcohols  facilities  ("Amoco  Pasadena  Plant").  Albemarle owns and
operates all  remaining  Albemarle  plants  ("Albemarle  Pasadena  Plant"),  and
operates MEMC Pasadena, Inc.'s electronic materials facility.

        As a result of the sale,  Albemarle  supplies to Amoco  (among  others):
certain  utilities  utilized  by Amoco at the Amoco  Pasadena  Plant,  including
electricity,  infrastructure,  natural gas, steam,  boiler feedwater,  nitrogen,
water, flare,  wastewater treatment and other utilities;  certain services, such
as facilities  maintenance,  security,  parking,  shops, pipe racks, laundry and
change house,  telephone  switching,  administrative  services,  and laboratory,
technical and analytical  services;  aluminum  alkyls and certain other products
for use in the olefins and alcohols units;  operation of minor Amoco  facilities
associated with the production of alpha olefins and alcohols; certain logistical
services  related  to  stores,  receiving,  warehousing,   railroads  and  truck
trailers; and mutual aid and fire protection.

        As a result of the sale,  Amoco  supplies to Albemarle  (among  others):
certain  utilities  utilized  by  Albemarle  at the  Albemarle  Pasadena  Plant,
including  refrigerated  isobutylene,  instrument air, steam,  boiler feedwater,
flare and other utilities; ethylene, linear alpha olefins, sodium aluminate, and
certain  other  products  for use in the  Albemarle  Pasadena  Plant  and  other
Albemarle

                                      -25-






facilities;   certain  material   handling  services  (tank  farm  and  terminal
facility); and mutual aid and fire protection.

        Virtually  all of the  utilities,  services  and  products  supplied  by
Albemarle to Amoco and from Amoco to  Albemarle in Pasadena,  Texas are supplied
at the provider's  cost plus a percentage  fee. Most of the utilities,  services
and products  supplied by Albemarle to Amoco and from Amoco to Albemarle have an
initial term of 10 years, with an automatic  extension for an additional 10 year
term,  unless  terminated  by either party at the end of the initial term upon 2
years notice.  With respect to products supplied by Albemarle to Amoco, and with
respect  to  decanol,  sodium  aluminate  and  alkoxide  supplied  by  Amoco  to
Albemarle,  Amoco may  terminate  the supply of such product on 180 days notice.
With respect to products supplied by Amoco to Albemarle, Albemarle may terminate
the supply of such  product  on 180 days  notice.  With  respect to rail car and
truck trailer services,  the term is indefinite and may be terminated on 2 years
notice by either party. With respect to wastewater treatment services,  the term
is  indefinite  and may be terminated by Amoco upon 6 months notice or by either
party upon termination of operations.

Feluy, Belgium

        After the sale,  Amoco  possesses  (under a 99-year lease,  with certain
purchase  options) and  operates the linear alpha  olefins and poly alpha olefin
facilities. In addition, Amoco possesses (under the same lease) and operates the
aluminum alkyls facilities

                                      -26-






exclusively for Albemarle (term: 10 years-Albemarle  has the right to extend for
one  additional 10 year term).  Albemarle  supplies  aluminum  alkyl products to
Amoco for use in the linear alpha olefins  facility  (term:  10 years-Amoco  has
right to extend for one  additional 10 year term).  The  operation  services and
products  supplied by Albemarle to Amoco and from Amoco to Albemarle  are at the
provider's cost plus a percentage fee.

Other Agreements

        For a limited period of time after the closing date (term:  ranging from
1 month  to 1 year,  depending  upon  the  service  involved),  and in  order to
facilitate a smooth transition of the transferred businesses to Amoco, Albemarle
supplies to Amoco certain interim services (including, by Albemarle;  office and
laboratory space,  technical  service,  administrative  and logistical  support,
information  technology services,  pilot plant operations,  product stewardship,
order  processing,  operation of facilities,  etc.).  These interim services are
supplied  at  Albemarle's  cost  plus a  percentage  fee.  Albemarle's  Japanese
affiliate  acts as an  authorized  sales  representative  of Amoco for  olefins,
alcohols and poly alpha  olefins in Japan on a commission  basis for a period of
two  years  following  March 1,  1996.  Albemarle  provides  certain  consulting
services with respect to Japanese  sales of those products for a period of up to
eighteen  months from March 1, 1996.  Albemarle also may act as a distributor of
linear alpha olefins and poly alpha olefins in the oil field services business.

                                      -27-






                                     PART II

Item 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

        The  information  contained  on page 15 of the Annual  Report  under the
caption  "Shareholder  Data & Market  Prices  of Common  Stock" is  incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

        The information for the five years ended December 31, 1996, contained in
the  "Five-Year  Summary" on pages 8 and 9 of the Annual Report is  incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        The textual and tabular information  concerning the years 1996, 1995 and
1994 contained in the "Financial  Review"  section on pages 10 through 14 of the
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

        The consolidated  financial statements contained on pages 16 through 20,
the Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements contained on pages 21 through
37 and the Report of Independent Accountants on page 38 of the Annual Report are
incorporated herein by reference.

                                      -28-






Recently Issued Accounting Standards:

        The Financial  Accounting Standards Board recently issued FASB Statement
No. 128, "Earnings per Share" which is effective for financial statements issued
for  periods  ending  after  December  15,  1997,  including  interim  periods.
Management has not yet made a  determination  of the  impact  that  adoption  of
FASB  Statement  No. 128 is expected to have on the financial statements of
Albemarle.

Item 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        Inapplicable.

                                      -29-






                                    PART III

Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

        The  information  contained  in the Proxy  Statement  under the  caption
"Election  of  Directors"   concerning   directors  is  incorporated  herein  by
reference.  See "Additional  Information  Officers of the Company" at the end of
Part I above for information about the officers of the Company.

Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

        The  information  contained  in the Proxy  Statement  under the  caption
"Compensation  of  Executive  Officers  and  Directors"   concerning   executive
compensation is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
          MANAGEMENT

        The  information  contained  in the Proxy  Statement  under the  caption
"Stock Ownership" is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

        The  information  contained  in the Proxy  Statement  under the captions
"Certain  Relationships  and Related  Transactions"  and "Stock  Ownership"  are
incorporated herein by reference.

                                      -30-






                                     PART IV

Item 14.           EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON
                   FORM 8-K

(a) (1)

             The following consolidated  financial and informational  statements
             of the  registrant  included on pages 16 to 38 in the Annual Report
             are incorporated herein by reference:

             Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1996 and 1995

             Consolidated  Statements of Income, Changes in Shareholders' Equity
             and Cash Flows for the years ended  December  31, 1996,  1995,  and

             Notes to The Consolidated Financial Statements

             Report of Independent Accountants

(a) (2)

             No Financial  Statement  Schedules are provided in accordance  with
             Item 14 (a) (2) as the  information is either not  applicable,  not
             required  or  has  been  furnished  in the  Consolidated  Financial
             Statements or Notes thereto.

(a) (3)      Exhibits

             The  following  documents  are filed as  exhibits to this Form 10-K
             pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K:

             3.1      Amendment to Restated Articles of Incorporation of the
                      registrant (filed as exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Form
                      10-K for 1994 (No. 1-12658), and incorporated herein by
                      reference).

             3.2      Amended By-laws of the registrant (filed as exhibit 3.2
                      to the Company's Form 10-K for 1995 (No. 1-12658), and
                      incorporated herein by reference).

             10.1     Credit Agreement,  dated as of September 24, 1996, between
                      the Company,  NationsBank,  N.A., as administrative  agent
                      and Bank of America Illinois, The Bank of New York and the
                      Chase Manhattan Bank, as co-agents and certain  commercial
                      banks  (filed  as  Exhibit  10.1  to the  Company's  Third
                      Quarter  1996  Form 10-Q (No.  1-12658)  and  incorporated
                      herein by reference).

             10.2     The Company's 1994 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan, adopted
                      on February 28, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
                      Company's Form S-1 (No. 33-77452), and incorporated
                      herein by reference).

                                      -31-






             10.3     The Company's Bonus Plan, adopted on February 8, 1994
                      (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Form 10 (No. 1-
                      12658), and incorporated herein by reference).

             10.4     Savings Plan for the Employees of the Company, adopted on
                      February 28, 1994 (filed as Exhibit 10.9 to the Company's
                      Form 10 (No. 1-12658), and incorporated herein by
                      reference).

             10.5     The Company's Excess Benefit Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.10
                      to the Company's Form 10 (No. 1-12658), and incorporated
                      herein by reference).

             10.6     The Company's Supplemental Retirement Plan (filed as
                      Exhibit 10.11 to the Company's Form 10 (No. 1-12658), and
                      incorporated herein by reference).

             10.7     The Company's Agreement between Certain Executives (filed
                      as Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's Form 10 (No. 1-12658),
                      and incorporated herein by reference).

             11.      Statements re: Computation of Earnings Per Share -
                      Historical (filed herewith).

             11.1     Statements re: Computation of Pro Forma Earnings Per Share
                      - for  years  ended  December  31,  1996 and  1995  (filed
                      herewith).

             11.2     Statements re: Computation of Pro Forma Earnings Per
                      Share - for year ended December 31, 1996 (filed
                      herewith).

             13.      The registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the
                      year ended December 31, 1996 (Note 1).

             21.      Subsidiaries of the Company (filed herewith).

             23.1     Consent of Independent Certified Public Accountants,
                      Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. (filed herewith).

             --------------------------

             Note 1. With the exception of the information  incorporated in this
             Form 10-K by  reference  thereto,  the Annual  Report  shall not be
             deemed "filed" as part of this Form 10-K.

(b)          No report on Form 8-K was filed in the last quarter of the
             period covered by this report.

(c)          Exhibits - The response to this portion of Item 14 is
             submitted as a separate section of this report.

                                      -32-






(d)          Financial  Statement  Schedules  -  Schedules  are  omitted  as the
             information  is either not  applicable,  not  required  or has been
             furnished in the financial statements or notes thereto.

                                      -33-









                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                   ALBEMARLE CORPORATION

                                       (Registrant)

                                   By:       /s/ Floyd D. Gottwald, Jr.
                                            ------------------------------
                                            Floyd D. Gottwald, Jr.
                                            Chairman of the Board

Dated: March 26, 1997

         Pursuant to the  requirements  of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934,
this  report has been  signed  below by the  following  persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated as of March 26, 1997.

       Signature                                        Title
       ---------                                        -----
 /s/ Floyd D. Gottwald, Jr.                 Chairman of the Board,
- -------------------------------             Chairman of the Executive
  (Floyd D. Gottwald, Jr.)                  Committee, Chief Executive
                                            Officer and Director
                                            (Principal Executive Officer)

 /s/ Charles B. Walker                      Vice Chairman of the Board,
- -------------------------------             Chief Financial Officer
   (Charles B. Walker)                      and Director
                                            (Principal Financial Officer)

                                      -34-










       Signature                                        Title
       ---------                                        -----
 /s/ Thomas G. Avant                        Senior Vice President - Finance
- -------------------------------             (Principal Accounting Officer)
   (Thomas G. Avant)                        and Managing Director Americas

 /s/ Craig R. Andersson                     Director
- -------------------------------
   (Craig R. Andersson)

 /s/ Dirk Betlem                            President and Director
- -------------------------------
   (Dirk Betlem)

 /s/ John D. Gottwald                       Director
- -------------------------------
   (John D. Gottwald)

 /s/ Andre B. Lacy                          Director
- -------------------------------
   (Andre B. Lacy)

 /s/ Seymour S. Preston, III                Director
- -------------------------------
   (Seymour S. Preston, III)

 /s/ Emmett J. Rice                         Director
- -------------------------------
   (Emmett J. Rice)

 /s/ Anne M. Whittemore                     Director
- -------------------------------
   (Anne M. Whittemore)
                                      -35-






                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

Number and Name of Exhibit                             Page Number
- --------------------------                             -----------
3.1          Amendment to Restated Articles            Incorporated by reference
             of Incorporation of the                   - see Page 31
             registrant

3.2          Amended By-laws of the                    Incorporated by reference
             registrant                                - see Page 31

10.1         Credit Agreement, dated as of             Incorporated by reference
             September 24, 1996, between the           - see Page 31
             Company, NationsBank, N.A., as
             administrative agent and Bank of
             America Illinois, The Bank of
             New York and the Chase Manhattan
             Bank, as co-agents and certain
             commercial banks

10.2         1994 Omnibus Stock Incentive              Incorporated by reference
             Plan                                      - see Page 31

10.3         Bonus Plan                                Incorporated by reference
                                                       - see Page 32

10.4         Savings Plan for Employees                Incorporated by reference
                                                       - see Page 32

10.5         Excess Benefit Plan                       Incorporated by reference
                                                       - see Page 32

10.6         Supplemental Retirement Plan              Incorporated by reference
                                                       - see Page 32

10.7         Agreement Between Certain                 Incorporated by reference
             Executives                                - see Page 32

11.          Computation of Earnings Per               Page 38
             Share - Historical

11.1         Computation of Pro Forma                  Page 39
             Earnings Per Share for years
             ended December 31, 1996 and 1995

11.2         Computation of Pro Forma                  Page 40
             Earnings Per Share for year
             ended December 31, 1996







                                      -36-






13.              The registrant's Annual Report        Pages 41 through 71
                 to Shareholders for the year
                 ended December 31, 1996



21.              Subsidiaries of the Company           Page 72

23.1             Consent of Independent Certified      Page 73
                 Public Accountants, Coopers &
                 Lybrand L.L.P.



                                      -37-



