10-K


a09-1718_110k.htm

10-K

Table
of Contents

UNITED
STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
  SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31,

Commission File No. 1-9328

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO
  SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                 to

ECOLAB
INC.

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code:

1-800-232-6522

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

x

YES

o

NO

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.

o

YES

x

NO

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

x

YES

o

NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company.  See definitions of “large
accelerated filer,”  “accelerated filer”
and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
filer

x

Accelerated filer

o

Non-accelerated filer

o

(Do
not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).

o

YES

x

NO

Aggregate
market value of voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of
registrant on June 30, 2008: 
$10,606,696,000 (see Item 12, under Part III hereof), based on a
closing price of registrant’s Common Stock of $42.99 per share.

The number of shares of
registrant’s Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, outstanding as of January 30,
2009: 236,192,852 shares.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.

Portions
  of the registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
  December 31, 2008 (hereinafter referred to as “Annual Report”) are
  incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

2.

Portions
  of the registrant’s Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
  be held May 8, 2009 and to be filed within 120 days after the
  registrant’s fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 (hereinafter referred
  to as “Proxy Statement”) are incorporated by reference into Part III.


TABLE OF

CONTENTS


PART I

Except
where the context otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to
either “Ecolab,” “Company,” “we” and “our” are to Ecolab Inc. and its
subsidiaries, collectively.

Forward-Looking Statements

This
Annual Report on Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” incorporated by
reference into Item 7 of this Form 10-K, 
contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 
These statements include expectations concerning items such as revenue
and earnings growth, raw material and delivered product costs, currency translation,
business acquisitions, system implementations, restructuring charges and cost
savings, cash flows, loss of customers and bad debt, debt repayments, disputes
and claims, environmental and regulatory considerations, share repurchases,
global economic conditions and credit risk, pension expenses and potential
contributions, new accounting pronouncements, income taxes, including
unrecognized tax benefits or uncertain tax positions, borrowing capacity, and
liquidity requirements.  Without limiting
the foregoing, words or phrases such as “will likely result,” “are expected to,”
“will continue,” “is anticipated,” “we believe,” “we expect,” “estimate,” “project”
(including the negative or variations thereof) or similar terminology,
generally identify forward-looking statements. 
Forward-looking statements may also represent challenging goals for
us.  We caution that undue reliance
should not be placed on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of
the date made.  Some of the factors which
could cause results to differ from those expressed in any forward-looking
statement are set forth under Item 1A of this Form 10-K, entitled Risk
Factors.

Item
1.  Business

.

Item 1(a) General Development of Business

.

Ecolab was incorporated as a Delaware
corporation in 1924.  Our fiscal year is
the calendar  year ending December 31.

During 2008, we continued to invest in our
business to build for the future.

In December 2007, subsequent to our
year-end for international operations, we purchased the Irish dairy hygiene
business of Novartis Animal Health Ireland Ltd. 
The business, which has annual sales of approximately $3 million, became
part of our International operations during the first quarter of 2008.

In February 2008, we acquired Ecovation, Inc.,
a Rochester, N.Y. area-based provider of renewable energy solutions and
effluent management systems primarily for the food and beverage manufacturing
industry in the U.S., including dairy, beverage and meat and poultry
producers.  2007 sales were approximately
$50 million.    Ecovation became part of
our U.S. Cleaning & Sanitizing operations during the first quarter of
2008.

Following the Ecovation acquisition, we
combined our Water Care Services and Ecovation businesses into our Food &
Beverage division.

We continued to make investments in Europe,
including the establishment of our European headquarters in Zurich,
Switzerland.

In November 2008, our then largest
shareholder, Henkel AG & Co. KGaA (“Henkel”), completed the sale of
all of the 72.7 million Ecolab shares it held. 
We repurchased 11.3 million shares directly from Henkel for $300
million, reducing our shares outstanding by approximately 4%.

Item 1(b) Financial Information About Operating Segments

.

The
financial information about reportable segments appearing under the heading “Operating
Segments” in Note 16, located on pages 49 and 50 of the Annual Report, is
incorporated herein by reference.


Table
of Contents

Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business

.

General

:

Ecolab develops and markets premium products
and services for the hospitality, foodservice, health care and industrial
markets. We provide cleaning and sanitizing products and programs, as well as
pest elimination, maintenance and repair services primarily to hotels and
restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, quick service (fast-food
and convenience store) units, grocery stores, commercial and institutional
laundries, light industry, dairy plants and farms, food and beverage processors
and the vehicle wash industry. A strong commitment to customer support and
sustainable solutions is a distinguishing characteristic of our business.  Additional information on our business
philosophy is found below under the heading “Additional Information —
Competition” of this Item 1(c).

The
following description of our business is based upon our three reportable
segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements.  However, we pursue a “Circle the Customer —
Circle the Globe” strategy by providing products, systems and services which
serve our customer base, and do so on a global basis to meet the needs of our
customers’ various operations around the world. 
Therefore, one customer may utilize the products or services of all
three of the segments and there is interdependence among the operating
segments.

United States Cleaning & Sanitizing Segment

The
“United States Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment is comprised of six
business units which provide cleaning and sanitizing products and programs to
United States markets.

Institutional

: The Institutional Division is our largest division and sells
specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes, glassware, flatware,
foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”), for on-premise
laundries (typically used by hotel and healthcare customers) and for general
housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and equipment,
dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging,
educational and healthcare industries, and water filters to the foodservice
industry. The Institutional Division also provides pool and spa treatment
programs for hospitality and other commercial customers, as well as a broad
range of janitorial cleaning and floor care products and programs to customers
in hospitality, health care and commercial facilities. The Institutional
Division manufactures and markets various chemical dispensing device systems,
which are made available to customers, to dispense our cleaners and sanitizers.
In addition, the Institutional Division markets a lease program comprised of
energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives and
sanitizers, including full machine maintenance.

We
believe that we are the leading supplier of chemical warewashing products and
programs to institutions in the United States.

The
Institutional Division sells its products and programs primarily through
company-employed field sales personnel. However, to a significant degree, we
also utilize independent, third-party foodservice distributors to market and
sell our products to smaller accounts or accounts which purchase through
distributors. We provide the same customer support to accounts supplied by food
distributors as to direct customers.

Food & Beverage

: Our Food & Beverage Division addresses cleaning and
sanitation at the beginning of the food chain to facilitate the processing of
products for human consumption. The Division provides detergents, cleaners,
sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as well as cleaning systems,
electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the application of chemical
products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink
bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food processors. The Food &
Beverage Division is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial
products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during
processing in order to reduce microbial contamination. The Food &
Beverage Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean-in-place”)
process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base.
Farm products are sold through dealers and independent, third-party
distributors, while plant products are sold primarily by our field sales
personnel. The Food & Beverage Division also offers water care
programs primarily to treat water used for heating and cooling systems and
manufacturing processes. In addition, through its Ecovation business, the Food &
Beverage Division offers customized wastewater treatment solutions that also
can generate energy.


Table
of Contents

We believe that we are one of the leading
suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm,
food, meat and poultry, and beverage/brewery processor industries in the United
States.

Kay

: Our
Kay Division (which consists of certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of Ecolab
Inc.) supplies chemical cleaning and sanitizing products primarily to national
and regional quick service restaurant chains. 
Kay’s products include specialty and general purpose hard surface
cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted
cleaning tools.  Products are sold under
the “Kay” brand or the customer’s private label. In addition, Kay supports its
product sales with employee training programs and technical support designed to
meet the special needs of its customers. Kay’s customized cleaning and
sanitation programs are designed to reduce labor costs and product usage while
increasing sanitation levels, cleaning performance, equipment life and safety
levels.

Kay
employs a direct field sales force which primarily calls upon national and
regional quick service restaurants and franchisees, although the sales are made
to distributors who supply the chain or franchisee’s units.

We
believe that our Kay Division is the leading supplier of chemical cleaning and
sanitizing products to the traditional quick service restaurant industry in the
United States. While Kay’s customer base has been growing, Kay’s business is
largely dependent upon a limited number of major quick service restaurant
chains and franchisees.

In
addition, through Kay’s Food Retail business, the Division supplies cleaning
and sanitizing products to the food retail (i.e., grocery store) industry. Food
Retail products are sold primarily through distributors and include specialty
and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes,
hand care products, assorted cleaning tools and floor care products. We provide
the same customer support to accounts supplied by distributors as to direct
customers.

Healthcare

: Our Healthcare Division provides infection
prevention and other healthcare related offerings to acute care hospitals,
surgery centers, dental offices and veterinary clinics.  The Healthcare Division’s proprietary
infection prevention products (hand hygiene, hard surface disinfectants,
instrument cleaners, patient drapes, fluid control and equipment drapes) are
sold primarily under the “Ecolab” and “Microtek” brand names to various
departments within the acute care environment (Infection Control, Environmental
Services, Central Sterile and Operating Room). 
Microtek Medical, acquired in November 2007, is a leader in niche
branded specialty surgical drapes and fluid control products.  The Healthcare Division sells its products
and programs primarily through company-employed field sales personnel but also
sells through healthcare distributors.

Textile Care

:
Our Textile Care Division provides
chemical laundry products and proprietary dispensing systems, as well as
related programs, to large industrial and commercial laundries.  Typically these customers include
free-standing laundry plants used by institutions such as hotels, restaurants
and healthcare facilities as well as industrial and textile rental laundries.
Products and programs include laundry cleaning and specialty products, related
dispensing equipment, plus water and energy management which are marketed
primarily through company-employed field sales personnel and, to a lesser
extent, through independent, third-party distributors. The Textile Care
Division’s programs are designed to meet our customers’ need for exceptional
cleaning, while extending the useful life of linen and reducing the customer’s
overall operating cost.

Vehicle Care

:

Our Vehicle Care Division provides vehicle
appearance products which include soaps, polishes, sealants, wheel and tire
treatments and air fresheners. Products are sold to vehicle rental, fleet and
consumer car wash and detail operations. Brand names utilized by the Vehicle
Care Division include Blue Coral

Ò

, Black Magic

Ò

and
Rain-X

Ò

.

United States Other Services Segment

The
“United States Other Services” segment is comprised of two business units:  Pest Elimination and GCS Service. In general,
these businesses provide service or equipment which can augment or extend our
product offering to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the
Customer” approach.


Table
of Contents

Pest Elimination

: Our Pest Elimination Division provides services designed to detect,
eliminate and prevent pests in restaurants, food and beverage processors,
educational and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick service restaurant and
grocery operations and other institutional and commercial customers. These
services are sold and performed by company-employed field sales and service
personnel. In addition, through our EcoSure Food Safety Management business, we
provide customized on-site evaluations, training and quality assurance services
to foodservice operations.

GCS Service

:
GCS Service provides equipment repair and maintenance services for the
commercial food service industry. Repair services are offered for in-warranty
repair, acting as the Manufacturer’s Authorized Service Agent, as well as after
warranty repair. In addition, GCS Service operates as a parts distributor to
repair service companies and end users.

International Segment

We conduct business in approximately 70
countries outside of the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in
the case of Israel and Venezuela, through joint ventures with local partners.
In other countries, selected products are sold by our export operations to
distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume of those sales is not
significant in terms of our overall revenues. Our largest International
operations are located in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Canada, with
smaller operations in Africa and the Middle East.

In
general, the businesses conducted internationally are similar to those
conducted in the United States but are managed on a geographic basis. The
businesses which are similar to the United States’ Institutional and Food &
Beverage businesses are the largest businesses in our International operations.
They are conducted in virtually all our International locations and, compared
to the United States, constitute a larger portion of the overall business.
Healthcare and Textile Care are also significant businesses in our
International operations, particularly in Europe. Kay also has sales in a
number of International locations. A significant portion of Kay’s international
sales are to international units of United States-based quick service
restaurant chains. Consequently, a substantial portion of Kay’s international
sales are made either to domestic or internationally-located third-party
distributors who serve these chains.

Our
Pest Elimination business continues to expand its geographic coverage. Since
2001, we have entered markets in Asia, Western Europe, Latin America and South
Africa, with the largest operations in France and the United Kingdom.

Our
other businesses are conducted less extensively in our International locations.
However, in general, most of the principal businesses conducted in the United
States are also operated in Canada.

International
businesses are subject to the usual risks of foreign operations, including
possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, tax laws, currency
exchange rates and economic and political conditions abroad. The profitability
of our International operations has historically been lower than the
profitability of our businesses in the United States. This has been due to the
smaller scale of the International operations as well as the additional cost of
operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions.

Additional
Information

Competition

:
Our business units have two significant classes of competitors. First, each
business unit competes with a small number of large companies selling directly
or through distributors on a national or international scale. Second, all of
our business units have numerous smaller regional or local competitors which
focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-user segments.

Our objective is to achieve a significant
presence in each of our business markets. In general, competition is based on
customer support, product performance and price. We believe we compete
principally by providing superior value, premium customer support and
differentiated products to help our customers protect their brand reputation.
Value is provided by state-of-the-art cleaning, sanitation and maintenance
products and systems coupled with high customer support standards and
continuing


Table
of Contents

dedication to customer satisfaction. This is
made possible, in part, by our significant on-going investment in training and
technology and by our standard practice of advising customers on ways to lower
operating costs and helping them comply with safety, environmental and
sanitation regulations. In addition to our consultative approach, we emphasize
our ability to uniformly provide a variety of related premium cleaning and sanitation
programs to our customers and to provide that level of customer support to
multiple locations of chain customer organizations worldwide. This approach is
succinctly stated in our “Circle the Customer - Circle the Globe” strategy
which is discussed above in this Item 1(c) under the heading “General.”

Sales

: Products, systems and services are
primarily marketed in domestic and international markets by company-trained
field sales personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper
and efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of
cleaning and sanitation needs. Independent, third-party distributors are
utilized in several markets, as described in the business unit descriptions
found under the discussion of the three reportable segments above.

Number of Employees

: We had approximately 26,500 employees as of
December 31, 2008.

Customers and Classes of Products

: We believe that our business is not
materially dependent upon a single customer although, as described above in
this Item 1(c) under the description of the Kay business, Kay is largely
dependent upon a limited number of national and international quick service
chains and franchisees. Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base
and no customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our
consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party
distributors, the loss of which could have a material negative effect on
results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider
it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our
financial position. No material part of our business is subject to
renegotiation or termination at the election of a governmental unit. We sell
two classes of products which each constitute 10 percent or more of our sales.
Sales of warewashing products in 2008, 2007 and 2006 approximated 21, 22 and 21
percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. In addition, through our
Institutional and Textile Care businesses, we sell laundry products and provide
customer support to a broad range of laundry customers. Sales of laundry
products and services in 2008, 2007 and 2006 approximated 11, 10 and 10
percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales.

Patents and Trademarks

: We own and license a number of patents,
trademarks and other intellectual property, including through a license
agreement with Henkel AG & Co. KGaA. While we have an active program
to protect our intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and
pursuing legal action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, we do not
believe that our overall business is materially dependent on any individual
patent or trademark.

Seasonality

:
Overall our business does not have a significant degree of seasonality.
However, we do experience variability in our quarterly operating results due to
sales volume and business mix fluctuations in our operating segments. Note 17,
entitled “Quarterly Financial Data” located on page 51 of the Annual
Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Working Capital

: We have invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the
future, in merchandising equipment consisting primarily of systems used by
customers to dispense our cleaning and sanitizing products. Otherwise, we have
no unusual working capital requirements.

Manufacturing and Distribution

: We manufacture most of our products and
related equipment in Company-owned manufacturing facilities. Some products are
also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers. Other products and
equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers. Additional information on
product/equipment sourcing is found in the segment discussions above and
additional information on our manufacturing facilities is located beginning at page 15
of this Form 10-K under the heading “Properties.”

Deliveries
to customers are made from our manufacturing plants and a network of
distribution centers and public warehouses. We use common carriers, our own
delivery vehicles, and distributors. Additional information on our plant and
distribution facilities is located beginning at page 15 of this Form 10-K
under the heading “Properties.”



Raw Materials

: Raw materials purchased for use in manufacturing our products are
inorganic chemicals, including alkalis, acids, phosphates, silicates and salts,
and organic chemicals, including surfactants and solvents. These materials are
generally purchased on an annual contract basis from a diverse group of
chemical manufacturers. When practical, global sourcing is used so that
purchasing or production locations can be shifted to control product costs at
globally competitive levels. Pesticides used by our Pest Elimination Division
are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order from the
producers or their distributors. We also purchase packaging materials for our
manufactured products and components for our specialized cleaning equipment and
systems. Most raw materials, or substitutes for those materials, used by us,
with the exception of a few specialized chemicals which we manufacture, are
available from several suppliers.

Research and Development

: Our research and development program consists principally of devising
and testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the
efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, and evaluating
the environmental compatibility of products. Key disciplines include analytical
and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process and packaging engineering and
product dispensing technology. Substantially all of our principal products have
been developed by our research, development and engineering personnel. At
times, technology has also been licensed from third parties to develop
offerings. Note 13, entitled “Research Expenditures” located on page 44 of
the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Environmental and Regulatory Considerations

: Our businesses are subject to various
legislative enactments and regulations relating to the protection of the
environment and public health. While we cooperate with governmental authorities
and take commercially practicable measures to meet regulatory requirements and
avoid or limit environmental effects, some risks are inherent in our
businesses. Among the risks are costs associated with transporting and managing
hazardous substances, waste disposal and plant site clean-up, fines and penalties
if we are found to be in violation of law, as well as modifications,
disruptions or discontinuation of certain operations or types of operations
including product recalls and reformulations. Additionally, although we are not
currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no assurance that
future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash
flows. Environmental and regulatory matters most significant to us are
discussed below.

Ingredient Legislation

: Various laws and regulations have been enacted by state, local and
foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of products which contain
phosphorous, volatile organic compounds, or other ingredients that may impact
human health or the environment. Under California Proposition 65, label
disclosures are required for certain products containing chemicals listed by
California. “Green” chemistry initiatives that promote pollution prevention
through research and development of safer chemicals and safer chemical
processes are being advanced by certain states, including California, Maine,
Massachusetts and Vermont.  In 2009,
green chemistry and ingredient disclosure legislation may be introduced at the
federal level.  To date, we generally
have been able to comply with such legislative requirements by reformulation or
labeling modifications. Such legislation has not had a material negative effect
on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows to
date.

Re-authorization
of the Toxic Substances Control Act (“TSCA”) and a re-set of the TSCA Inventory
are being discussed in the U.S. Congress. 
Ecolab anticipates that compliance with new requirements could be
similar to the costs associated with the Registration, Evaluation and
Authorization of Chemicals regulation recently adopted in the European Union,
which is discussed below.

REACH

:
The European Union has developed a new regulatory framework for the
Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals (“REACH”). It
established a new European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki, Finland, which is
responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards and risks and to manage
this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and distribution in Europe.
Under REACH, all “new” and “existing” chemicals produced or imported into the
European Union in quantities above one ton per year must be


Table
of Contents

registered
in a central database. Ecolab has met the pre-registration requirements of
REACH, and is on track to meet the upcoming deadlines and requirements in 2009
and beyond.  To help manage this new
program, Ecolab is simplifying its product line and working with chemical
suppliers to comply with registration requirements. For chemicals deemed to be
of most concern, industry must gain specific authorization for particular uses
which have been demonstrated to be safe. Ecolab has minimized use of these
chemicals which are designated as “chemicals of high concern.”  The impact of REACH will also be felt by our
competitors. Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but are not
expected to significantly affect our consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows.

GHS

:

In 2003, the United Nations issued a standard on hazard communication
and labeling of chemical products known as the Globally Harmonized System of
Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (“GHS”). GHS is designed to facilitate
international trade and increase safe handling and use of hazardous chemicals
through a worldwide system that classifies chemicals based on their intrinsic
hazards and communicates information about those hazards through standardized
safety labeling and safety warnings. Individual countries and regional
organizations either have begun to implement GHS or are considering what
portions of it will be adopted and within what timeframe. Most countries in which
we operate will adopt GHS-related legislation. The primary cost of compliance
will revolve around authoring of material safety data sheets and product
labeling, and we are working toward a phased-in approach to mitigate risks of
GHS implementation. Potential costs to us are not yet fully quantifiable, but
are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results
of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Pesticide and Biocide Legislation

: Various international, federal and state
environmental laws and regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of
pesticides. We manufacture and sell certain disinfecting and sanitizing
products which kill or reduce microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on hard
environmental surfaces and on certain food products. Such products constitute “pesticides”
or “antimicrobial pesticides” under the current definitions of the Federal
Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), as amended by the Food
Quality Protection Act of 1996, the principal federal statute governing the
manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides. We maintain
approximately 330 product registrations with the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (“EPA”). Registration entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy,
toxicity and labeling requirements and to pay on-going registration fees. In
addition, each state in which these products are sold requires registration and
payment of a fee. In general, the states impose no substantive requirements
different from those required by FIFRA. However, California and certain other
states have adopted additional regulatory programs, and California imposes a
tax on total pesticide sales in that state. While the cost of complying with rules as
to pesticides has not had a material adverse effect on our consolidated results
of operations, financial condition, or cash flows to date, the costs and delays
in receiving necessary approvals for these products continue to increase. Total
fees paid to the EPA and the states to obtain or maintain pesticide
registrations, and for the California tax, were approximately $3,308,000 in
2008 and $2,800,000 in 2007.

In
Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive (98/8/EC) (“BPD”) established a program
to evaluate and authorize marketing of biocidal active substances and products.
We are working with suppliers and industry groups to manage requirements
associated with the BPD, and have met the first relevant deadline of the
program by the timely submission of dossiers for active substances. Anticipated
registration costs, which will be incurred through the BPD phase-in period
ending in 2014, will be significant; however, these costs are not expected to
significantly affect our consolidated results of operations or cash flows in
any one reporting period, or our financial position.

In
addition, our Pest Elimination Division applies restricted-use pesticides which
it generally purchases from third parties. That Division must comply with
certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the licensing
of employees who apply such pesticides. Such regulations are enforced primarily
by the states or local jurisdictions in conformity with


Table
of Contents

federal
regulations. We have not experienced material difficulties in complying with
these requirements.

FDA Antimicrobial Product Requirements

: Various laws and regulations have been
enacted by federal, state, local and foreign jurisdictions regulating certain
products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on
humans, animals, foods and medical devices. In the United States, these
requirements generally are administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(“FDA”). However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and EPA also may share in
regulatory jurisdiction of antimicrobials applied to food. The FDA also has
been expanding requirements applicable to such products, including proposing
regulations in a Tentative Final Monograph for Healthcare Antiseptic Drug
Products dated June 17, 1994, which may impose additional requirements
associated with antimicrobial hand care products and associated costs when
finalized by the FDA. To date, such requirements have not had a material
adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.

Other Environmental Legislation

: Our manufacturing plants are subject to
federal, state, local or foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to
discharge of hazardous substances into the environment and to the
transportation, handling and disposal of such substances. The primary federal
statutes that apply to our activities in the United States are the Clean Air
Act, the Clean Water Act, and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. We
are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986,
which imposes certain reporting requirements as to emissions of hazardous
substances into the air, land and water. Similar legal requirements apply to
Ecolab’s facilities globally.  We make
capital investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and
regulations, to ensure employee safety and to carry out our announced
environmental sustainability principles. To date, such expenditures have not
had a significant adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows. Our capital expenditures for environmental
health and safety projects worldwide were approximately $8,900,000 in 2008 and
$8,100,000 in 2007. Approximately $4,200,000 has been  budgeted globally for projects in 2009.

Climate Change

: Various laws and regulations pertaining to climate change have been
implemented or are being considered for implementation at the international,
national, regional and state levels, particularly as they relate to the
reduction of greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. None of these laws and
regulations directly applies to Ecolab at the present time; however, as a
matter of corporate policy, Ecolab supports a balanced approach to reducing GHG
emissions while sustaining economic growth and competitiveness. Ecolab has
joined U.S. EPA’s Climate Leaders program, and as part of that program we have
pledged to develop a corporate-wide U.S. GHG emission inventory and work with
EPA to set a GHG reduction goal.

Environmental Remediation and Proceedings

: Along with numerous other potentially
responsible parties (“PRPs”), we are currently involved with waste disposal
site clean-up activities imposed by the federal Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or state equivalents at 17
sites in the United States. Additionally, we have similar liability at eight
sites outside the United States. In general, under CERCLA, we and each other
PRP that actually contributes hazardous substances to a Superfund site are
jointly and severally liable for the costs associated with cleaning up the
site. Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a
plan for site remediation. Pursuant to an Environmental Agreement dated December 7,
2000 with Henkel AG & Co. KGaA, Henkel agreed to indemnify us for
certain environmental liabilities associated with the parties’ former joint
venture in Europe. We have requested euro 261,046 (approximately $368,000 at December 31,
2008) from Henkel for environmental costs during 2008.

Based
on an analysis of our experience with such environmental proceedings, our
estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the sites referred to
in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the contribution to be made by
other PRPs which


Table
of Contents

we believe have the
financial ability to pay their shares, we have accrued our best estimate of our
probable future costs relating to such known sites. Unasserted claims are not
reflected in the accrual. In establishing accruals, potential insurance
reimbursements are not included. The accrual is not discounted. It is not
feasible to predict when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the
uncertainties inherent in the environmental remediation and associated
regulatory processes.

Our worldwide net
expenditures for contamination remediation were approximately $614,000 in 2008
and $1,060,000 in 2007. Including the ChemLawn matter described below, our
worldwide accruals at December 31, 2008 for probable future remediation
expenditures totaled approximately $3,751,000. We review our exposure for
contamination remediation costs periodically and our accruals are adjusted as
considered appropriate. While the final resolution of these issues could result
in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an impact on our
consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, we believe the
ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or liquidity. In
addition, we have retained responsibility for certain sites where our former
ChemLawn business is a PRP. Currently there is one such location and ChemLawn
is a

de minimis

party. Anticipated costs
currently accrued for these matters were included in our loss from our
discontinued ChemLawn operations in 1991. The accrual remaining reflects our
best estimate of probable future costs for the one remaining site.

Item 1(d) Financial Information
About Geographic Areas

.

The financial information about geographic
areas appearing under the heading “Operating Segments” in Note 16, located on pages 49
and 50 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 1(e) Available Information

.

Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com.
Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are
available free of charge on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as
reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

In addition, the following governance
materials are available on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor/governance
and the same information is available in print to any requesting persons, free
of charge, by writing to the Corporate Secretary at our headquarters address,
or by submitting an e-mail request to investor.info@ecolab.com:  (i)  charters of the Audit,
Compensation, Finance and Governance Committees of our Board of Directors; (ii) our
Board’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our Code of Conduct and
Code of Ethics for Senior Officers and Finance Associates.

Executive
Officers of the Registrant

.

The persons listed in the following table are
our current executive officers. Officers are elected annually. There is no
family relationship among any of the directors or executive officers, and no
executive officer has been involved during the past five years in any legal
proceedings described in applicable Securities and Exchange Commission
regulations.


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents

Item 1A. Risk Factors

.

The following are important factors which could affect our financial
performance and could cause our actual results for future periods to differ
materially from our anticipated results or other expectations, including those
expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K. See
the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 2 of this Form 10-K.


Table
of Contents

We may also refer to this disclosure to identify factors that may cause
results to differ from those expressed in other forward-looking statements made
in oral presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to
the public.

Except as may be required under applicable law, we undertake no duty to
update our Forward-Looking Statements.

Our results depend upon the
continued vitality of the markets we serve:

Economic downturns, and in particular
downturns in the foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care and food
processing industries, can adversely impact our end-users who are sensitive to
changes in travel and dining activities. The current decline in economic
activity is adversely affecting these markets. During such downturns, these
end-users typically reduce their volume of purchases of cleaning and sanitizing
products, which would likely in turn have an adverse impact on our business.

Our results are impacted by
general worldwide economic factors:

Economic factors such as the worldwide economy, interest rates and
currency movements including, in particular, our exposure to foreign currency
risk have affected our business in the past and are expected to have a material
adverse impact on our business in the future. The global economy is currently
experiencing considerable disruption and volatility, and the disruption has
been particularly acute in the global credit markets. While currently these
disruptions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets, there can
be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in the markets
in which we operate. As a result, ongoing disruption in the global economy
could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.

Our results can be adversely
affected by fluctuations in the cost of raw materials:

The prices of raw materials used in our
business can fluctuate from time to time, and have increased significantly in
recent years. Changes in oil or raw material prices, unavailability of adequate
and reasonably priced raw materials or substitutes for those raw materials, or
the inability to obtain or renew supply agreements on favorable terms can
adversely affect our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows. In addition, recent volatility and disruption in economic activity
and conditions could disrupt or delay the performance of our suppliers or
otherwise impact our ability to obtain raw materials at favorable prices or on
favorable terms, which may adversely affect our business.

Our growth depends upon our
ability to successfully compete with respect to value, product offerings and
customer support:

Our
competitive market is made up of numerous national, regional and local
competitors. Our ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to
maintain a superior technological capability and to continue to identify,
develop and commercialize innovative, high value-added products for niche
applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish this
or that technological developments by our competitors will not place certain of
our products at a competitive disadvantage in the future. In addition, certain
of the new products that we have under development will be offered in markets
in which we do not currently compete, and there can be no assurance that we
will be able to compete successfully in those new markets. If we fail to timely
introduce new technologies, we may lose market share and our consolidated
results of operations, financial position, or cash flows could be adversely
affected.

We enter into multi-year
contracts with customers that can impact our results:

We enter into multi-year contracts with some
of our customers which include terms affecting our pricing flexibility. There
can be no assurance that these restraints will not have an adverse impact on
our margins and operating income.

Consolidation of our customers
and vendors can affect our results:

Customers and vendors in the foodservice, hospitality, travel,
healthcare and food processing industries have been consolidating in recent
years and that trend may continue. This consolidation could have an adverse
impact on our ability to retain customers and on our margins and operating
income.


Table
of Contents

If we are unsuccessful in
integrating acquisitions, our business could be adversely affected:

As part of our long-term strategy, we seek to
acquire complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that we will find
attractive acquisition candidates or succeed at effectively managing the
integration of acquired businesses into existing businesses. If the expected
synergies from such transactions do not materialize or we fail to successfully
integrate new businesses into our existing businesses, our consolidated results
of operations, financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.

If we are unsuccessful in
executing on business investments, our business could be adversely affected:

We are making investments to develop business
systems and optimize our business structure as part of our ongoing efforts to
improve our efficiency and returns. If the projects in which we are investing
are not successfully executed, our consolidated results of operations,
financial position or cash flows could be adversely affected.

Our business depends on our
ability to comply with governmental regulations:

Our business is subject to numerous
regulations relating to the environment and to the manufacture, storage,
distribution, sale and use of our products. Compliance with these regulations,
as well as changes in tax, fiscal, governmental and other regulatory policies
expose us to potential financial liability
and increase our operating costs. Regulation of our products and operations
continues to increase with more stringent standards, causing increased costs of
operations and potential for liability if a violation occurs. The potential
cost to us relating to environmental and product registration laws and
regulations is uncertain due to factors such as the unknown magnitude and type
of possible contamination and clean-up costs, the complexity and evolving
nature of laws and regulations, and the timing and expense of compliance. In
addition, changes in accounting standards, including the adoption effective January 1,
2007 of FASB Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income
Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”, could increase the
volatility of our quarterly tax rate.

Extraordinary events may
significantly impact our business:

The
occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of
a major customer or distributor, (c) war (including acts of terrorism or
hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural or manmade disasters,
or (e) severe weather conditions or public health epidemics affecting the
foodservice, hospitality and travel industries may have a significant, adverse
impact on our business.

Defense of litigation, particularly certain
types of actions such as antitrust, patent infringement, wage hour and class
action lawsuits, can be costly and time consuming even if ultimately
successful, and if not successful could have a material adverse impact on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

While we have a diverse customer base and no
customer or distributor constitutes 10 percent or more of our consolidated
revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party distributors, the
loss of which could have a material negative effect on our consolidated results
of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider it
unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our
financial position.

War (including acts of terrorism or
hostilities), natural or manmade disasters or severe weather conditions or
public health epidemics affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel
industries cause a downturn in the business of restaurants, motels and hotels
and other of our customers, which in turn can have a material adverse impact on
our consolidated results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.

We depend on key personnel to
lead our business:

Our
continued success will largely depend on


Table
of Contents

our ability to attract and retain a high
caliber of talent and on the efforts and abilities of our executive officers
and certain other key employees. Our operations could be adversely affected if
for any reason such officers or key employees did not remain with us.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff
Comments

.

We have no unresolved comments from
the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 2.  Properties

.

Our manufacturing philosophy is to
manufacture products wherever an economic, process or quality assurance
advantage exists or where proprietary manufacturing techniques dictate internal
production processes. Currently, most products that we sell are manufactured at
our facilities.

Our manufacturing facilities produce chemical
products or equipment for all of our businesses, although the businesses
constituting the United States Other Services segment purchase the majority of
their products and equipment from outside suppliers. Our chemical production process
consists primarily of blending and packaging powders and liquids and casting
solids. Our equipment manufacturing operations consist primarily of producing
chemical product dispensers and injectors and other mechanical equipment and
dishwasher racks and related sundries.

The following chart profiles our main
manufacturing facilities with ongoing production activities. In general,
manufacturing facilities located in the United States serve the “United States
Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment and facilities located outside of the
United States serve the “International” segment. However, certain United States
facilities do manufacture products for export which are used by the
International segment. The facilities having export involvement are marked with
an asterisk (*).

ECOLAB OPERATIONS PLANT PROFILES


Table
of Contents



We
believe our manufacturing facilities are in good condition and are adequate to
meet our existing production needs.

Most
of our manufacturing plants also serve as distribution centers. In addition, we
operate distribution centers around the world, all of which are leased, and
utilize various public warehouses to facilitate the distribution of our
products and services. In the United States, our sales and service associates
are located in approximately 90 leased offices. Additional sales offices are
located internationally.

Our
corporate headquarters is comprised of three adjacent multi-storied buildings
located in downtown St. Paul, Minnesota. The main 19-story building was
constructed to our specifications and is leased through 2013. Thereafter, it is
subject to multiple renewals at our option. The second building is leased
through 2011 with additional options available. The third building is owned.
The corporate headquarters includes an employee training center. In 2004, we
purchased a 90 acre campus in Eagan, Minnesota to provide for future growth.
The acquired facility houses our research and development and data center
requirements as well as several of our administrative functions.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

.

Note
14, entitled “Commitments and Contingencies” located on pages 44 and 45 of
the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Other matters arising
under laws relating to protection of the environment are discussed at Item 1(c) above,
under the heading “Environmental and Regulatory Considerations.”

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
Holders

.

No
matters were submitted to a vote of our security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2008.

PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant’s Common Equity,
Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

.

Market Information

:

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol “ECL.” The Common Stock is also traded on an unlisted
basis on certain other United States exchanges. The high and low sales prices
of our Common Stock on the consolidated transaction reporting system during
2008 and 2007 were as follows:

The closing Common Stock
price on January 30, 2009 was $33.96.

Holders

:  On January 30,
2009, we had 5,169 holders of Common Stock of record.

Dividends

:

We have paid Common
Stock dividends for 72 consecutive years. Quarterly cash dividends of $0.115
per share were declared in February, May and August 2007. Cash
dividends of $0.13 per share were declared in December 2007, and February,
May and August 2008. A dividend of $0.14 per share was declared in December 2008.


Table
of Contents

Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities

:

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

.

The comparative data for the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007, 2006, 2005 and 2004 inclusive, which are set forth under the
heading entitled “Summary Operating and Financial Data” located on pages 54
and 55 of the Annual Report, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operation

.

The
material appearing under the heading entitled “Financial Discussion,” located
on pages 21 through 30 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk

.

The material appearing under the heading
entitled “Market Risk,” located on page 30 of the Annual Report, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

.

The financial statements and material which are
an integral part of the financial statements listed under Item 15(a)(1) below
and located on pages 31 through 55 of the Annual Report, are incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

.

None.


Table
of Contents

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures

.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

:

As of December 31, 2008, we carried out
an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in
Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended).
Based upon that evaluation, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

:

Our management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial
reporting.  Under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our Chairman of the Board,
President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, we
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting based on the framework in

Internal
Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our evaluation under this
framework, our management concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.

The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, has audited the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. Their
report, and our management reports, can be found in our Annual Report, the
relevant portion of which has been filed as Exhibit (13) to this Form 10-K
and is incorporated into Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

During the period October 1 - December 31, 2008, there were
no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control
over financial reporting.

PART III

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers of the
Registrant and Corporate Governance

.

Information about our directors is
incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading “Proposal to
Elect Directors” located in the Proxy Statement. Information about compliance
with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, is incorporated by reference from the discussion under the heading “Section 16(a) Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance” located in the Proxy Statement. Information
about our Audit Committee, including the members of the Committee, and our
Audit Committee financial experts, is incorporated by reference from the
discussion under the heading “Corporate Governance,” and sub-headings “Board
Committees” and “Audit Committee,” located in the Proxy Statement. Information
about our Code of Conduct is incorporated by reference from the discussion
under the heading “Corporate Governance Materials and Code of Conduct” located
in the Proxy Statement.  Information
regarding our executive officers is presented under the heading “Executive
Officers of the Registrant” in Part I on pages 10 through 12 of this Form 10-K,
and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive
Compensation

.

Information
appearing under the headings entitled “Executive Compensation” and “Director
Compensation” located in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference. However, pursuant to Instructions to Item 407(e)(5) of
Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K, the material appearing under
the sub-heading “Compensation Committee Report” shall not be deemed to be “filed”
with the Commission, other than as provided in this Item 11.


Table
of Contents

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

.

Information appearing under the heading
entitled “Security Ownership” located in the Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference.

A total of 541,813 shares of Common Stock
held by our directors and executive officers, some of whom may be deemed to be “affiliates”
of the Company, have been excluded from the computation of market value of our
Common Stock on the cover page of this Form 10-K. This total
represents that portion of the shares reported as beneficially owned by our
directors and executive officers as of June 30, 2008, which are actually
issued and outstanding.

Equity Compensation Plan
Information

:

The following table
presents, as of December 31, 2008, compensation plans (including
individual compensation arrangements) under which our equity securities are
authorized for issuance.

(1)

Includes
  137,276 Common Stock equivalents under our 2001 Non-Employee Director Stock
  Option and Deferred Compensation Plan. These Common Stock equivalents
  represent deferred compensation earned by non-employee directors and are
  excluded from the calculation of weighted average exercise price of
  outstanding options, warrants and rights in column (b) of this
  table.

(2)

Includes
  3,349 shares of our Common Stock subject to stock options with a
  weighted-average exercise price of $30.09, which we assumed in connection
  with our acquisition of Alcide Corporation effective July 30, 2004.
  These assumed options are deemed exempt from shareholder approval under
  Rule 303A.08 of the New York Stock Exchange in accordance with our
  notice to the NYSE dated August 18, 2004. The respective Alcide plans
  were amended to prohibit future grants.

Item 13. Certain Relationships
and Related Transactions and Director Independence

.

Information appearing under the headings
entitled “Director Independence Standards and Determinations” and “Related
Person Transactions” located in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services

.

Information appearing under the heading
entitled “Audit Fees” located in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.


Table
of Contents

PART IV

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules

.


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents



EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

Included in the preceding list of exhibits are the following management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements:


Table of
Contents

SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, Ecolab Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 27

th

day of February, 2009.

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Ecolab Inc. and in the
capacities indicated, on the 27

th

day of February 2009.



CONSENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (Registration Nos. 2-90702; 33-18202; 33-55986; 33-56101;
333-95043; 333-109890; 33-34000; 33-56151; 333-18627; 333-109891; 33-39228;
33-56125; 333-70835; 33-60266; 333-95041; 333-18617; 333-79449; 333-40239;
333-95037; 333-50969; 333-58360; 333-97927; 333-115567; 333-129427; 333-129428;
333-140988; 333-115568; 333-132139; and 333-149148) and Form S-3
(Registration No. 333-149052) of Ecolab Inc. of our report dated February 27,
2009 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the Annual Report
to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

/s/
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 27, 2009


Table
of Contents

EXHIBIT INDEX

The following documents
are filed as exhibits to this Report.


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents


Table
of Contents

36