10-K405


j3013_10k405.htm

10-K405

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington,

D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ý

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended December

  31, 2001

Commission

  File No. 1–9328

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR

15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

ECOLAB INC.

(Exact name of registrant

as specified in its charter)

Securities registered

pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered

pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check

mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by

Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding

12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file

such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the

past 90 days.

YES

ý

NO

o

Indicate by check

mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant’s

knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by

reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form

10-K.

ý

Aggregate market

value of voting stock held by non–affiliates of Registrant on February

28, 2002:  $5,958,585,675 (see Item 12,

under Part III hereof).  The number of

shares of Registrant’s Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, outstanding as

of February 28, 2002:  128,585,276

shares.


DOCUMENTS

INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.

Portions

of Registrant’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,

2001 (hereinafter referred to as “Annual Re­port”) are incorporated by

reference into Parts I, II and IV.

2.

Portions

of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stock­holders to be held May

10, 2002 and to be filed within 120 days after the Registrant’s fiscal year

ended December 31, 2001 (herein­after referred to as “Proxy Statement”) are

incorporated by reference into Part III.

PART I

Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors

The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a safe

harbor for forward-looking statements. 

In this Report on Form 10-K (including Management’s Discussion and

Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated into

Item 7 hereof), Management discusses expectations regarding future performance

of the Company which include anticipated financial performance, business

progress and expansion, business acquisitions, global economic conditions,

liquidity requirements, the effect of new accounting pronouncements and

one-time accounting charges and credits, and similar matters. Without limiting

the foregoing, words or phrases such as “will likely result,” “are expected

to,” “will continue,” “is anticipated,” “we believe,” “estimate,” “project”

(including the negative or variations thereof) or similar terminology,

generally identify forward-looking statements. 

Additionally, the Company may refer to this section of the Form 10-K to

identify risk factors related to other forward looking statements made in oral

presentations, including telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the

public.

Forward-looking statements represent challenging goals for the

Company.  As such, they are based on

certain assumptions and estimates and are subject to certain risks and

uncertainties.  The Company cautions

that undue reliance should not be placed on such forward-looking statements

which speak only as of the date made. 

In order to comply with the terms of the safe harbor, the Company hereby

identifies important factors which could affect the Company’s financial

performance and could cause the Company’s actual results for future periods to

differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed

in the forward-looking statements. 

These factors should be considered, together with any similar risk

factors or other cautionary language which may be made in the section of this

Report on Form 10-K containing the forward-looking statement.

Risks and uncertainties that may affect operating results and business

performance include:  the vitality of

the hospitality and travel industries; restraints on pricing flexibility due to

competitive factors and customer consolidations; changes in oil or raw material

prices or unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw materials; the

occurrence of capacity constraints or the loss of a key supplier; the effect of

future acquisitions or divestitures or other corporate transactions and the

Company’s ability to achieve plans for past acquisitions; the costs and effects

of complying with laws and regulations relating to the environment and to the

manufacture, storage, distribution and labeling of the Company’s products;

changes in tax, fiscal, governmental and other regulatory policies; economic

factors such as the worldwide economy, interest rates, and currency movements


including, in particular, the Company’s greater exposure to foreign

currency risk due to the recent acquisition of Henkel-Ecolab, and changes in

the capital markets affecting the Company’s ability to raise capital; the

occurrence of (a) litigation or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major

customer or distributor, (c) natural or manmade disasters (including material

acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact the Company’s markets) and (d)

severe weather conditions affecting the food service and the hospitality

industries; loss of, or changes in, executive management; the Company’s ability

to continue product introductions and technological innovations; and other

uncertainties or risks reported from time to time in the Company’s reports to

the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

In addition, the Company notes that its stock price can be affected by

fluctuations in quarterly earnings. 

There can be no assurances that the Company’s earnings levels will meet

investors’ expectations.

Item 1.  Business

Item 1(a) General Development of Business

Except where the context otherwise requires, the terms “Company” and

“Ecolab,” as used herein, include Ecolab Inc. and its subsidiaries.  Ecolab Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware

corporation in 1924.  The Company’s

fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31.

On November 30, 2001, the Company acquired the 50 percent of the

Henkel-Ecolab joint venture (“Henkel-Ecolab”) which the Company did not own,

from its joint venture partner, Henkel KGaA, Düsseldorf, Germany (“Henkel”) for

a purchase price of 483,631,000 Euro (approximately $433,000,000 at November

30, 2001 exchange rates), subject to adjustment for post-closing adjustments

and indemnity claims.  The Company and

Henkel had jointly operated Henkel-Ecolab since July 1991.  The acquisition is referred to in this Item

1(a) as the “Transaction.”

Henkel-Ecolab provides cleaning and sanitizing systems and service

solutions to hospitality, institutional and industrial customers throughout

Europe.

Prior to the Transaction, the Company accounted for its interest in

Henkel-Ecolab under the equity method of accounting.  As a result of the Transaction, the legal entities constituting

Henkel-Ecolab became wholly-owned entities of the Company.  Following the Transaction, the assets,

liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows of Henkel-Ecolab will be

reflected in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as a part of the

Company’s International Cleaning & Sanitizing reporting segment.

Financial statements of Henkel-Ecolab, in respect of certain periods

prior to the November 30, 2001 date of the Transaction as listed under Item

14.I(3) of Part IV hereof, are included as a part of this Report and a review

of Henkel-Ecolab financial performance is found under the heading

“Henkel-Ecolab” contained in the Financial Discussion which is incorporated

from the Annual Report into Item 7 hereof.

During 2001, the Company continued to make business acquisitions which

broadened its product and service offerings in line with its “Circle the

Customer — Circle the Globe” strategy. 

In January 2001, Ecolab purchased a 25 percent equity interest in

Randall International LLC (“Randall”). 

Randall is a privately-held manufacturer of luxury personal care items

for the lodging and resort industry. 

Under certain circumstances, the Company has the right to purchase the

remaining 75 percent of Randall based upon its then fair market value.


In July 2001, Ecolab purchased Microbiotecnica Saneamento Ltda., a

leading provider of commercial pest elimination services in Brazil.

In October 2001, the Company expanded the geographic coverage of its

GCS commercial kitchen equipment parts and repair business with the acquisition

of Commercial Parts & Services, Inc., which provides customized maintenance

and repair services for commercial kitchens with branches in Indiana, Kentucky,

Tennessee and Mississippi.

Details of these acquisitions are found under the heading “Other

Business Acquisitions and Divestitures” in Note 5, located on page 38 of the

Annual Report and incorporated into Item 8 hereof.

In January 2002,  the Company

acquired certain operations of Kleencare Hygiene located in the United Kingdom,

France, Switzerland and the Netherlands. 

These operations provide products, systems and services for the food and

beverage industry.  This acquisition

represents the Company’s first step to leverage and expand its new wholly-owned

operations in Europe.  In January 2002,

the Company also purchased Audits International, a Chicago, Illinois-based

provider of food safety services in the United States.

Item 1(b) Financial Information About Operating

Segments

The financial information about reportable segments appearing under the

heading “Operating Segments” in Note 15, located on pages 46 and 47 of the

Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 1(c) Narrative Description of Business

General:

The Company is engaged in the development

and marketing of premium products and services for the hospitality,

institutional and industrial markets. 

The Company provides cleaning, sanitizing, pest elimination, maintenance

and repair products, systems and services primarily to hotels and restaurants,

foodservice, healthcare and educational facilities, quick-service (fast food

and other convenience store) units, grocery stores, commercial and

institutional laundries, light industry, dairy plants and farms, food and

beverage processors, pharmaceutical and cosmetics facilities and the vehicle

wash industry.  A strong commitment to

customer support is a distinguishing characteristic of the Company.  Additional information on the Company’s

business philosophy is found below under the heading “Additional Information —

Competition” of this Item 1(c).

The following description of business is based upon the Company’s three

reportable segments (“segments”) as reported in the Company’s consolidated

financial statements.  However, the

Company pursues a “Circle the Customer — Circle the Globe” strategy by

providing products, systems and services which serve the Company’s customer base,

and does so on a global basis to meet the needs of its customer’s various

operations around the world.  Therefore,

one customer may utilize the services of all three of the segments.  Thus, there is a degree of interdependence

among the operating segments—particularly between the International Cleaning

& Sanitizing and the United States Cleaning & Sanitizing businesses.

United States Cleaning & Sanitizing Segment

The “United States Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment is comprised of

seven divisions which provide cleaning and sanitizing services to United States

markets.


Institutional

:  The Institutional Division is the Company’s

largest division and sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing

dishes, glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment

(“warewashing”), for on–premise laundries (typically used by hotel and

health care customers) and for general housekeeping functions, as well as

dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice, lodging,

educational and healthcare industries and water filters to the foodservice

industry.  The Division also provides

rooftop grease filter products and kitchen exhaust cleaning services for

restaurants and other food service operations as well as pool and spa treatment

programs for commercial and hospitality customers.  The Institutional Division also manufactures and markets various

chemical dispensing device systems, which are made available to customers, to

dispense the Company’s cleaners and sanitizers.  In addition, the Division markets primarily to smaller and

mid-size customer units, a program comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing

machines, detergents, rinse additives and sanitizers, including full machine

maintenance.

The Company believes it is the leading supplier of chemical warewashing

products to institutions in the United States.

The Institutional Division sells its products and services primarily

through Company–employed field sales-and-service personnel.  However, the Company, to a significant

degree, also utilizes independent, third-party foodservice distributors to

market and sell its products to smaller accounts or accounts which purchase

through food distrib­utors and the Company provides the same service to

accounts served by food distrib­utors as to direct customers.

Kay

:  The Kay Division (which consists of certain

wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company) supplies chemical cleaning and

sanitizing products primarily to the quick-service restaurant industry. This

includes traditional fast food restaurants but also other retail

locations where “fast food” is prepared and served, such as convenience

stores, airport and shopping center kiosks and other public venues typically

serviced by national or regional restaurant chains.  Kay also sells cleaning and sanitizing products, to the food

retail (i.e., grocery store) industry. 

Kay’s products include specialty and general purpose hard surface

cleaners, degreasers, sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted

cleaning tools.  Products are sold under

the “Kay” brand or the customer’s private label. In addition, Kay supports its

product sales with employee training programs and technical support designed to

meet the special needs of its customers. 

Kay’s customized cleaning and sanitation programs are designed to reduce

labor costs and product usage while increasing sanitation levels, cleaning

performance, equipment life and safety levels.

Kay employs a direct field sales force which primarily calls upon

national and regional quick-service restaurant and food retail chains and

franchisees, although the sales are made to distributors who supply the chain

or franchisee’s units.

The Company believes that its Kay Division is the leading supplier of

chemical cleaning and sanitizing products to the traditional quick-service

restaurant industry in the United States. 

While Kay’s customer base has been growing, Kay’s business is largely

dependent upon a limited number of major quick-service restaurant chains and

franchisees.

Food

& Beverage

:  The

Food & Beverage Division addresses cleaning and sanitation at the start of

the food chain to facilitate the production of products for human

consumption.  The Division provides

detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health products, as

well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical injectors for the

application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants, dairy farms,

breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other food

processors as well as to pharmaceutical and cosmetic plants. The division also

markets


food irradiation services through an alliance with Ion Beam

Applications (IBA).  The Food &

Beverage Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean–in–place”)

process control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer

base.  Farm products are sold through

dealers and independent, third-party distributors, while plant products are

sold primarily by the Company’s field sales personnel.  The Company believes that it is one of the

leading suppliers of cleaning and sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy

farm and beverage processor industries in the United States.

Textile

Care

: The Textile Care Division provides chemical laundry

products and proprietary dispensing systems, as well as related services, to

large institutional and commercial laundries. 

Typically these customers process a minimum of 1,000,000 pounds of linen

each year and include free-standing laundry plants used by institutions such as

hotels, restaurants and healthcare facilities as well as industrial and textile

rental laundries.  The Division also

serves the shirt laundry market, typically comprised of smaller laundry units.  Products and services include laundry

cleaning and specialty products and related dispensing equipment, which are

marketed primarily through a Company–employed sales force and, to a

lesser extent, through independent, third-party distributors. The Division’s

programs are designed to meet the customer’s need for exceptional cleaning,

while extending the useful life of linen and reducing the customer’s overall

operating cost.  Textile Care offerings

complement the Institutional Division’s offerings to on-premise laundry

facilities.

Professional

Products:

The

Professional Products Division provides a broad range of janitorial and

infection prevention/health care offerings to the janitorial and medical

markets in the United States. Its proprietary janitorial products (detergents,

general purpose cleaners, carpet care, furniture polishes, disinfectants, floor

care products, hand soaps and odor counteractants) are sold primarily under the

brand name “Airkem,” and proprietary infection prevention/health care products

(skin care, disinfectants and instrument sterilants) are sold primarily under

the “Huntington” brand name.  These

products are sold primarily through a network of independent, third-party

distributors, supported by a Company-employed sales force.

The Division also sells certain specialty chemical products which are

manufactured for third parties. These offerings include the manufacture of a

small line of private label products and house brand products for third

parties.

Vehicle

Care:

The Company’s Vehicle

Care Division provides vehicle appearance products which include soaps,

polishes, wheel and tire treatments and air fresheners.  Products are sold to vehicle rental, fleet

and consumer car wash and detail operations. 

Brand names utilized by the vehicle care division include Blue Coral

Ò

,

Black Magic

Ò

and Rain-X

Ò

.

Water

Care Services

:  The

Water Care Services Division supplements the Company’s “Circle the Customer -

Circle the Globe” strategy by adding an offering which is critical to companies

in the Company’s customer base—water treatment programs.  The Division provides water and wastewater

treatment products, services and systems for commercial/institutional customers

(full service hotels, cruise ships, hospitals, healthcare, commercial real estate,

government, and commercial laundries), food and beverage customers (dairies,

meat, poultry, food processing and beverage) and other light industry.  Water Care Services works closely with the

Company’s Institutional, Textile Care and Food & Beverage divisions to

offer customized water care strategies to their accounts that have water care

needs, primarily to treat water used in heating and cooling systems and

manufacturing processes and to treat wastewater.


United States Other Services Segment

The “United States Other Services” segment is comprised of two business

units:  Pest Elimination and GCS

Service.  In general, both businesses

provide service or equipment which can augment or extend the Company’s product

offering to its business customers as a part of the “Circle the Customer”

approach.

Pest

Elimination

:  The Pest

Elimination Division provides services for the detection, elimination and

prevention of pests to restaurants, food and beverage processors, educational

and healthcare facilities, hotels, quick-service restaurant and grocery

operations and other institutional and commercial customers.  These services are sold and performed by

Company–employed sales and service personnel.

GCS

Service

:  GCS provides

commercial kitchen parts and equipment repair services including parts

distribution.  GCS offers both chain

account customers of the Company and equipment manufacturers the benefits of

working with a single equipment repair service provider with a nationally based

capability.

International Cleaning & Sanitizing Segment

The Company conducts business in approximately 70 countries outside of

the United States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in the case of China,

Israel and Venezuela, through majority-owned joint ventures with local

partners.  In other countries, selected

products are sold by the Company’s export operations to distributors, agents or

licensees, although the volume of those sales is not significant in terms of

the Company’s overall revenues.  The

largest International operations are located in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin

America and Canada with smaller operations in Africa.

In general, the businesses conducted internationally are similar to

those conducted in the United States, although the Company customizes its

products and services to meet unique local requirements.  The businesses which are similar to the

United States’ Institutional and Food & Beverage businesses, are the largest

businesses in international operations. 

They are conducted in virtually all international locations, and

compared to the United States, constitute a larger portion of the overall

business.  Kay has sales in a number of

International locations.  A significant

portion of its international sales are to non-United States units of United

States-based quick-service restaurant chains. 

Consequently, a substantial portion of Kay’s international sales are

made either to domestic or internationally-located independent, third-party

distributors who serve these chains. The other businesses are conducted less

extensively in international locations. However, in general, all of the

businesses conducted in the United States are operated in Canada.

International businesses are subject to the usual risks of foreign

operations including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws, tax

laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions

abroad.  The profitability of

International operations has historically been lower than the profitability of

businesses in the United States.  This

has been attributable to lower International operating income margins caused by

the difference in scale of International operations where operating locations

are smaller in size as well as to the additional cost of operating in numerous

and diverse foreign jurisdictions. 

Proportionately larger investments in sales, administrative and

technical personnel are also necessary in order to facilitate growth in

International operations.


Additional Information

Competition

:  The Company’s business units have two

significant classes of competitors. 

First, each business unit competes with a small number of large

companies selling directly or through distributors on a national or

international scale.  Second, all of the

Company’s business units have numerous smaller regional or local competitors

which focus on more limited geographies, product lines and/or end-user

segments.

The Company’s objective is to achieve a significant presence in each of

its business markets.  In general,

competition is based on service, product performance and price.  The Company believes it competes principally

by providing superior value and differentiated products.  Value is provided by state-of-the-art

cleaning, sanitation and maintenance products and systems coupled with high

customer support standards and dedication to customer satisfaction after the

initial sale.  This is made possible, in

part, by the Company’s significant on-going investment in training and

technology development and by the Company’s standard practice of advising

customers on means to lower operating costs and comply with safety,

environmental and sanitation regulations. In addition, the Company emphasizes

its ability to uniformly provide a variety of related premium cleaning and

sanitation services to its customers and to provide that level of service to

multiple locations of chain customer organizations worldwide.  This approach is succinctly stated in the

Company’s “Circle the Customer - Circle the Globe” strategy which is discussed

above in this Item 1(c) under the heading “General.”

Sales

and Service

: Products, systems and services are primarily

marketed in domestic and international markets by Company–trained sales

and service personnel who also advise and assist customers in the proper and

efficient use of the products and systems in order

to meet a full range of cleaning and sanitation needs.  Independent, third-party distributors are

utilized in several markets, as described in the business unit descriptions

found under the discussion of the three reportable segments above.

Customers

and Classes of Service

: 

The Company believes that its business is not materially dependent upon

a single customer although, as described above in this Item 1(c) under the

description of the Kay business, Kay is largely dependent upon a limited number

of national and international quick-service chains and franchisees.  Additionally, although the Company has a

diverse customer base and no customer or distributor constitutes ten percent or

more of the Company’s consolidated revenues, the Company does have customers

and independent, third-party distributors, the loss of which could have a

negative effect on results of operations for the affected earnings

periods.  No material part of the

Company’s business is subject to renegotiation or termination at the election

of a governmental unit. The Company sells two classes of products which each

constitute 10 percent or more of its sales. 

Worldwide sales of warewashing products in 2001, 2000 and 1999

approximated 25, 26 and 27 percent, respectively, of the Company’s consolidated

net sales.  In addition, the Company,

through its Institutional and Textile Care businesses, sells laundry products

and services to a broad range of laundry customers. Worldwide laundry sales in

2001, 2000 and 1999 approximated 11, 11 and 12 percent, respectively, of the

Company’s consolidated net sales.


Patents

and Trademarks

:  The

Company owns a number of patents and trademarks.  While the Company has an active program to protect its

intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and pursuing legal

action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, Management does not believe

that the Company’s overall business is materially dependent on any individual

patent or trademark.

Seasonality

:  Overall the Company’s business does not have

a significant degree of seasonality.

Working

Capital

:  The Company

has invested in the past, and will continue to invest in the future, in

merchandising equipment consisting primarily of systems used by customers to

dispense the Company’s cleaning and sanitizing products.  The Company, otherwise, has no unusual

working capital requirements.  The

investment in merchandising equipment is discussed under the heading “Cash

Flows” located on page 28 of the Annual Report and incorporated into Item 7

hereof.

Manufacturing

and Distribution

: The Company manufactures most of its prod­ucts

and related equipment in Company–owned manufacturing facilities.  Some are also produced for the Company by

third-party contract manufacturers. 

Other products and equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers.  Additional information on product/equipment sourcing

is found in the segment discussions above and additional information on the

Company’s manufacturing facilities is located beginning at page 14 hereof under

the heading “Properties.”

Deliveries to customers are made from the Company’s manufacturing

plants and a network of distribution centers and public ware­houses.  The Company uses common carriers, its own

deliv­ery vehicles and distributors. 

Additional information on the Company’s plant and distribution

facilities is located beginning at page 14 hereof under the heading

“Properties.”

Raw

Materials

:  Raw

materials purchased for use in manufacturing products for the Company are

inorganic chemicals, including phosphates, silicates, alkalies, salts and

organic chemicals, including surfactants and solvents.  These materials are generally purchased on

an annual contract basis from a diverse group of chemical manufacturers.  Pesticides used by the Pest Elimination

Division are purchased as finished products under contract or purchase order

from the producers or their distributors. 

The Company also purchases packaging materials for its manufactured

products and components for its specialized cleaning equipment and

systems.  Most raw materials, or

substitutes for those materials, used by the Company, with the exception of a

few specialized chemicals which the Company manufactures, are available from

several suppliers.

Research

and Development

:  The

Company’s research and development program consists principally of devising and

testing new products, processes, techniques and equipment, improving the

efficiency of existing ones, improving service program content, and evaluating

the environmental compatibility of products. 

Key disciplines include analytical and formulation chemistry,

microbiology, process and packaging engineering and product dispensing

technology.  Substantially all of the

Company’s principal products have been developed by its research, development

and engineering personnel. At times, technology may be licensed from outside

the Company to develop offerings.  Note

12, entitled “Research Expenditures” located on page 43 of the Annual Report,

is incorporated herein by reference.


Environmental

and Regulatory Considerations

:  This discussion of Environmental and Regulatory Considerations

should be read in light of the Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors

discussion found under Part I at the beginning of this Report.  The Company’s businesses are subject to

various legislative enactments and regulations relating to the protection of

the environment and public health. 

While the Company cooperates with governmental authorities and takes

commercially practicable measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or

limit environmental effects, some risks are inherent in the Company’s

businesses.  Among the risks are costs

associated with managing hazardous substances, waste disposal or plant site

clean–up, fines and penalties if the Company were found in violation of

law, as well as modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain

operations or types of operations including product recalls.  Additionally, although the Company is not

currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no assurance that

future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a material adverse

effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition

or liquidity.  Environmental and

regulatory matters most significant to the Company are discussed below.

Ingredient Legislation:

Various laws and regulations have been

enacted by state, local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of

products which contain phosphorous or other ingredients that may impact human

health or the environment. Under California Proposition 65, label disclosures

are required for certain products containing chemicals listed by

California.  To date, the Company has

been able to comply with such legislative requirements and, in the case of

phosphate regulation, has where necessary, developed products which contain no

phosphorous or lower amounts of phosphorous. Such legislation has not had a

material negative effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations,

financial condition or liquidity to date.

Pesticide Legislation:

Various federal and state environmental laws

and regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of pesticides.  The Company manufactures and sells certain

disinfecting and sanitizing products which kill microorganisms (bacteria, viruses,

fungi) on environmental surfaces. Such products constitute “pesticides” or

“antimicrobial pesticides” under the current definitions of the Federal

Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), as amended by the Food

Quality Protection Act of 1996, the principal federal statute governing the

manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides.  The Company maintains approximately 400

product registrations with the United States Environmental Protection Agency

(“EPA”).  Registration entails the

necessity to meet certain efficacy, toxicity and labeling requirements and to

pay initial and on-going registration fees. 

In addition, each state in which these products are sold requires

registration and payment of a fee. In general, the states impose no substantive

requirements different from those required by FIFRA.  However, California does have its own regulatory scheme and

certain other states have regulatory schemes under consideration.  In addition, California imposes a tax on

total pesticide sales in that State. 

While the cost of complying with rules as to pesticides has not had a

material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity or the

results of its operations to date, the costs and delays in receiving necessary

approvals for these products have increased in recent years.  Total fees paid to the EPA and the states to

obtain or maintain pesticide registrations, and for the California tax, were

approximately $2,200,000 in 2001.  Such

costs will likely increase in 2002, but, based on the Company’s best

information, not in amounts which are expected to significantly affect the

Company’s consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.


In addition, the Company’s Pest Elimination Division

applies restricted-use pesticides which it generally purchases from third

parties.  That Division must comply with

certain standards pertaining to the use of such pesticides and to the licensing

of employees who apply such pesticides. 

Such regulations are enforced primarily by the states or local

jurisdictions in conformity with federal regulations.  The Company has not experienced material difficulties in

complying with these requirements.

FDA Antimicrobial Product

Requirements

:  Various

laws and regulations have been enacted by federal, state, local and foreign

jurisdictions regulating certain products manufactured and sold by the Company

for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals, processed foods, and

medical devices.   In the United States,

these requirements generally are administered by the U.S. Food and Drug

Administration (FDA).   The FDA has been

expanding requirements applicable to such products, including proposing

regulations in a Tentative Final Monograph for Healthcare Antiseptic Drug Products

dated June 17, 1994 that may impose additional requirements and associated

costs when finalized by FDA.  To date,

such requirements have not had a material negative effect on the Company’s

consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.

Other Environmental

Legislation:

The

Company’s manufacturing plants are subject to federal, state, local or foreign

jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to discharge of hazardous substances

into the environment and to the transportation, handling and disposal of such

substances.  The primary federal

statutes that apply to the Compa­ny’s activities are the Clean Air Act, the

Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”).  The Company is also subject to the Superfund

Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting

requirements as to emissions of toxic substances into the air, land and

water.  The Company makes capital

investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations,

to ensure employee safety and to carry out its announced environmental

stewardship principles.  To date, such

expenditures have not had a significant adverse effect on the Company’s

consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  The Company’s capital expenditures for

environmental control projects incurred for 2001 were approximately $1,540,000

and approximately $1,560,000 has been budgeted for 2002.

Environmental Remediation

and Proceedings

:

Along with numerous other potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”), the

Company is currently involved with waste disposal site clean–up

activities imposed by the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response,

Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) or state equivalents at approximately

18 sites in the United States. 

Additionally, the Company has similar liability at four sites outside

the United States.  In general, under

CERCLA, the Company and each other PRP which actually contributes hazardous

substances to a Superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs

associated with cleaning up the site. 

Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to agree and implement a

plan for site remediation.

Based on an analysis of the Company’s experience with

such environmental proceedings, the Company’s estimated share of all hazardous

materials deposited on the sites referred to in the preceding paragraph, and

the Company’s estimate of the contribution to be made by other PRPs which the

Company believes have the


financial ability to pay their shares, the Company has

accrued its best estimate of the Company’s probable future costs relating to

such known sites.  Unasserted claims are

not reflected in the accrual.   In

establishing accruals, potential insurance reimbursements are not

included.  The accrual is not

discounted.  It is not feasible to

predict when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the uncertainties inherent

in the environmental remediation and associated regulatory processes.

During 2001, the Company’s net expenditures for

contamination remediation were approximately $500,000.  The accrual at December 31, 2001 for

probable future remediation expenditures was approximately $2,800,000.  The Company reviews its exposure for

contamination remediation costs periodically and its accruals are adjusted as

considered appropriate. While the final resolution of these issues could result

in costs below or above current accruals and, therefore, have an impact on the

Company’s consolidated financial results in a future reporting period, the

Company believes the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a

material effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position or

liquidity.  In addition, the Company has

retained responsibility for certain sites where the Company’s former ChemLawn

business is a PRP.  Currently there are

five such locations and, at each, ChemLawn is a

de minimis

party.  Anticipated costs currently accrued for

these matters were included in the Company’s loss from its discontinued

ChemLawn operations in 1991.  The

accrual remaining reflects management’s best estimate of probable future costs.

Number

of Employees

:  The

Company currently has approximately 19,300 employees.

Item 1(d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas

The financial information about geographic areas appearing under the

heading “Operating Segments” in Note 15, located on pages 46 and 47 of the

Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Executive Officers of the Company

The persons listed in the following table are the current executive

officers of the Company.  Officers are

elected annually.  There is no family

relation­ship among any of the directors or executive officers, and none of

such persons has been involved during the past five years in any legal

proceedings described in applicable Securities and Exchange Commission

regulations.



Item 2.  Properties

The Company’s manufacturing facilities produce chemical products or

equipment for all the Company’s businesses, although the Pest Elimination

Division, GCS and the Facilitec businesses purchase most of their products and

equipment from outside suppliers.  The

Company’s chemical production process consists primarily of blending and

packaging powders and liquids and casting solids.  The Company’s equipment manufacturing operations consist

primarily of producing


chemical product dispensers and ejectors and other mechanical equipment

(South Beloit, Illinois) and dishwasher racks and related sundries (Elk Grove

Village, Illinois).  The Company’s

philosophy is to manufacture products wherever an economic, process or quality

assurance advantage exists or where proprietary manufacturing techniques

dictate internal production processes. 

Currently, most products sold by the Company are manufactured at Company

facilities.

The following chart profiles the Company’s manufacturing facilities

which are approximately 50,000 square feet or larger in size.

In general, manufacturing facilities located in the United States serve

the “United States Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment and facilities located

outside of the United States serve the “International Cleaning &

Sanitizing” segment.  However, certain

of the United States

facilities do manufacture products for export and which are used by the

International segment.  The facilities

having export involvement are marked with an asterisk(*).

ECOLAB

OPERATIONS PLANT PROFILES


ECOLAB

OPERATIONS PLANT PROFILES

Smaller United States manufacturing facilities operated by the Company

are located in North Kansas City, Missouri (owned); Grand Forks, North Dakota

(leased), Memphis, Tennessee (leased) and Baldwin Park, California (leased).   The Company also owns or leases smaller

international manufacturing facilities in Argentina, Australia, Costa Rica,

Fiji, Greece, Iceland, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, Netherlands, Papua New

Guinea, People’s Republic of China, Philippines, Puerto Rico, Singapore,

Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Tanzania and Thailand.

The Company believes its manufacturing facilities are in good condition

and are adequate to meet existing production needs.

Most of the Company’s manufacturing plants also serve as distribution

centers.  In addition, around the world,

the Company operates distribution centers, all of which are leased, and

utilizes various public warehouses to facilitate the distribution of its

products and services.  In the United

States, Company sales associates are located in approximately 65 leased

offices. Additional sales offices are located internationally.

The Company’s corporate headquarters is comprised of three adjacent

multi-storied buildings located in downtown St. Paul, Minnesota.  The main 19-story building was constructed

to the Company’s specifications and is leased through 2008.   Thereafter, it is subject to multiple

renewals at the Company’s option.  The

second building is also subject to a long–term lease by the Company and

the third building is owned.  The

corporate headquarters includes a state–of–the–art training

center.  The Company also owns a

computer center in St. Paul and a research facility located in a suburb of St.

Paul.


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

Proceedings arising under laws relating to protection of the

environment are discussed at Item 1(c) above, under the heading “Environmental

Considerations.”

Lubricant

Litigation Update - Previous Status:

As previously reported in the Company’s

periodic reports, Diversey Lever, Inc. filed suit against the Company in

Federal District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division on July

1, 1996.  The suit alleges that two Company

products, which lubricate plastic beverage bottles, infringe two patents held

by Diversey Lever.  Diversey Lever

requested damages for the infringement in a range of $3,000,000 to $5,000,000

and that damages be enhanced up to three times if willful infringement is found

(“Original Damage Claim”).

In 1998 the District Court found that the Company had infringed the two

patents held by Diversey Lever, and in 1999 the Federal Court of Appeals

affirmed and remanded the case back to the District Court for trial on the

issue of damages.

In July 2000, Diversey Lever asserted an additional claim that the

Company’s patent infringement caused permanent loss to the value of Diversey

Lever’s business and sought additional damages, which amount was filed under

seal.  The Company filed a motion for

summary judgment to strike the additional claim.  In September 2001 the District Court granted the Company’s motion

for summary judgment to strike this additional claim.

A date for trial of Diversey Lever’s Original Damage Claim has not been

set.  The Company has accrued its best

estimate of its potential liability related to this matter.

Other

Litigation:

The

Company and certain of its subsidiaries are defendants in various other

lawsuits and claims arising out of the normal course of business.  Accruals have been established reflecting

management’s best estimate of probable future costs relating to such matters.

The estimated effects of the future results of existing litigation is

subject to certain estimates, assumptions and uncertainties and should be considered

in light of the discussion of Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors found

under Part I at the beginning of this Report.

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of the security holders, through

the solicitation of proxies, or otherwise, during the fourth quarter of 2001.

PART II

Item 5.  Market

for the Company’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Item 5(a) Market

Information

The Company’s Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and

the Pacific Exchange, Inc. under the symbol “ECL.”  The Common Stock is also traded on an unlisted basis on certain

other United States exchanges.  The high

and low sales prices of the Company’s Common Stock on the consolidated transaction

reporting system during 2001 and 2000 were as follows:


The closing stock price on February 28, 2002 was $46.83.

Item 5(b) Holders

On February 28, 2002, the Company had 5,215 holders of Common Stock of

record.

Item 5(c)

Dividends

The Company has paid common stock dividends for 65 consecutive

years.  Quarterly cash dividends of

$0.12 per share were paid in January, April, July and October of 2000.  Dividends of $0.13 per share were paid in

January, April, July and October 2001.

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data

The comparative data for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, 1999,

1998 and 1997 inclusive, which are set forth under the heading entitled

“Summary Operating and Financial Data” located on pages 50 and 51 of the Annual

Report, are incor­porated herein by reference.

Item 7. 

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results

of Operations

The material appearing under the heading entitled “Financial

Discussion,” located on pages 20 through 49 of the Annual Report, is

incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7(a) Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures

about Market Risk

The material appearing under the heading entitled “Market Risk,”

located on page 29 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The financial statements and material which are an integral part of the

financial statements listed under Item 14.I(1). below and located on pages 30

through 49 of the Annual Report, are filed as a part of this Report and are

incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and

Financial Disclosure

None.


PART III

Item 10. 

Directors and Executive Officers of the Company

The biographical material regarding directors and the paragraph

relating to understandings concerning the election of directors between Henkel

KGaA and the Company located in the Proxy Statement appearing under the heading

entitled “Election of Directors,” is incorporated herein by reference.  Information regarding executive officers is

presented under the heading “Executive Officers of the Company” in Part I of this

Report on pages 12 through 14 hereof.

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation

The material appearing under the heading entitled “Executive

Compensation” located in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by

reference.  However, pursuant to

Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K, Item 402(a)(9), the material

appearing under the headings entitled “Report of the Compensation Committee on

Executive Compensation” and “Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Total Return”

located in the Proxy Statement is not incorporated herein.

Item 12.  Security

Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The material appearing under the headings entitled “Security Ownership

of Certain Beneficial Owners” and “Security Ownership of Management” located in

the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.  The holdings of Henkel KGaA and HC

Investments, Inc. are subject to certain limitations with respect to the

Company’s voting securities as more fully described in the Company’s Proxy

Statement under the heading “Stockholder Agreement,” which is incorporated

herein by reference.

A total of 636,260 shares of Common Stock held by the Company’s current

directors and executive officers, some of whom may be affiliates of the

Company, have been excluded from the computation of market value of the Company’s

Common Stock on the cover page of this Report. 

This total represents that portion of the shares reported as

beneficially owned by directors and executive officers of the Company as of

February 28, 2002, which are actually issued and outstanding.

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The material appearing under the headings entitled “Certain

Transactions,” “Stockholder Agreement” and “Company Transactions” located in

the Proxy Statement, as well as the paragraph relating to understandings

concerning the election of directors between Henkel KGaA and the Company and

the biographical material pertaining to Messrs. Stefan Hamelmann, Jochen

Krautter and Ulrich Lehner, both located in the Proxy Statement appearing under

the heading “Election of Directors,” are incorporated herein by reference.

PART IV

Item 14. 

Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

I(1).         The following

financial statements of the Company, included in the Annual Report, are

incorporated into Item 8 hereof.


(i)

Consolidated

Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,

Annual Report page 30.

(ii)           Consolidated

Balance Sheet at December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, Annual Report page 31.

(iii)

Consolidated

Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999,

Annual Report page 32.

(iv)

Consolidated

Statement of Comprehensive Income and Shareholders’ Equity for the years ended

December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, Annual Report page 33.

(v)

Notes

to Consolidated Financial Statements, Annual Report pages 34 through 48.

(vi)

Report

of Independent Accountants, Annual Report page 49.

I(2).

The

following financial statement schedule to the Company’s financial statements

listed in Item 14.I(1). for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999

located on page 33 hereof, and the Report of Indepen­dent Accountants on

Financial Statement Schedule at page 31 hereof, are filed as part of this

Report.

(i)

Schedule

II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended December 31, 2001,

2000 and 1999.

All other schedules, for which provision is made in

the applicable regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, are not

required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have

been omitted.  All significant majority–owned

subsidiaries are included in the filed consolidated financial statements.

I(3).

The

following financial statements of the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture located on

pages 34 to 57 hereof, are filed as part of this Report.

(i)

Report

of Independent Accountants on the combined financial statements and financial

statement schedule (referred to under I(4).(i)) — PricewaterhouseCoopers

Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft.

(ii)

Combined

Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for the years ended November 30,

2001, 2000 and 1999.

(iii)

Combined Balance Sheets

as of November 30, 2001 and 2000.

(iv)

Combined

Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.


(v)

Combined

Statements of Equity for the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

(vi)

Notes

to Combined Financial Statements.

I(4).

The

following financial statement schedule to the Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture

financial statements listed in Item 14.I(3). for the years ended November 30,

2001, 2000 and 1999 located on page 58 hereof, and the Report of the

Independent Accountants on page 34 hereof are filed as part of this Report.

(i)

Schedule

- - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for the years ended November

30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

All other schedules, for which provision is made in

the applicable regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, are not

required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have

been omitted.  All entities of the

Henkel-Ecolab Joint Venture are included in the filed combined financial

statements.

II.

The

following documents are filed as exhibits to this Report.  The Company will, upon request and payment

of a fee not exceeding the rate at which copies are available from the

Securities and Exchange Commis­sion, furnish copies of any of the following

exhibits to stock­holders.

(3)A.

Restated

Certificate of Incorporation - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (3) to the

Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 22, 1997.

B.

By-Laws,

as amended through February 18, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit

(3)B of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,

1998.

(4)A.

Common

Stock – see Exhibits (3)A and (3)B.

B.

Form

of Common Stock Certificate - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)B of the

Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.

C.

(i)

Rights

Agreement dated as of February 24, 1996 – Incorporated by reference

to Exhibit (4) of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 24,

1996.

(ii)

Amendment,

dated November 5, 2001 to the Rights Agreement dated as of February 24, 1996 -

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (1) of the Company’s Form 8A/A filed

November 6, 2001.


D.

Second

Amended and Restated Stockholder’s Agreement between Henkel KGaA and Ecolab

Inc., dated November 30, 2001 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10) of

the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 30, 2001.

E.

Amended

and Restated Indenture, dated as of January 9, 2001, between Ecolab Inc. and

Bank One, NA (formerly known as The First National Bank of Chicago) as Trustee

- - Incorporated by reference to

Exhibit (4)(A) of the Company’s Current Report on Form

8-K dated January 23, 2001.

F.

Officer’s

Certificate establishing terms and conditions of 6.875% Notes due February 1,

2011 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(B) of the Company’s Current

Report on Form 8-K dated January 23, 2001.

G.

Form

of 6.875% Note due February 2, 2011 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(c)

of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 23, 2001.

H.

(i)

Trust

Deed, dated 7 February 2002, constituting €300,000,000 5.375% Notes due 2007

between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, London Branch.

(ii)

Paying

Agency Agreement, dated 7 February 2002, relating to €300,000,000 5.375% Notes

due 2007 among the Company, JPMorgan Chase Bank, London Branch, J. P. Morgan

Bank Luxembourg S.A.and others.

Copies of other constituent instruments defining the

rights of holders of long–term debt of the Company and its subsidiaries

are not filed herewith, pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of

Regulation S–K, because the aggregate amount of securities authorized

under each of such instruments is less than 10% of the total assets of the

Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.  The Company hereby agrees that it will, upon request by the

Securities and Exchange Commission, furnish to the Commission a copy of each

such instrument.

(10)A.

(i)

Multicurrency

Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) dated as of September 29, 1993, as

Amended and Restated as of December 13, 2000, among the Company, the financial

institutions party thereto from time to time, Citicorp USA, Inc. as

Administrative Agent, Citibank International Plc, as Euro-Agent and Bank One,

NA and Credit Suisse First Boston as Co-Agents - Incorporated by reference to

Exhibit (10)A of the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 23,

2001.


(ii)

Australian

Dollar Local Currency Addendum to the Credit Agreement, dated October 17, 1997

- - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (4)B of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the

quarter ended September 30, 1997.

(iii)

Australian

Dollar Local Currency Addendum dated as of June 23, 1998 among Ecolab Finance

PTY Limited, Ecolab Inc., Citibank, N.A., the Local Currency Agent named

therein and the Local Currency Banks party thereto — Incorporated by reference

to Exhibit (4)B of the Company’s Form 

10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.

B.

Credit

Agreement (364 Day Facility) dated December 7, 2001, among the Company, the

banks parties thereto (the “Banks”) and Citicorp USA, Inc. as Agent for the

Banks - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (99)B of  the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 30, 2001.

C.

Ecolab

Inc. 1977 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated through May 12, 2000 -

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)A of the Company’s Form 10-Q  for the quarter ended June 30, 2000.

D.

Ecolab

Inc. 1993 Stock Incentive Plan - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)B of

the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1992.

E.

(i)

Ecolab

Inc. 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated as of August 18, 2000 -

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10) of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the

quarter ended September 30, 2000.

(ii)

Non-Statutory

Stock Option Agreement between the Company and Allan L. Schuman with respect to

premium-priced option grant effective February 20, 1998 under the Ecolab Inc.

1997 Stock Incentive Plan.  Similar

option grants were made to each of the named executive officers of the Company

covering varying, but smaller number of shares — Incorporated by reference to

Exhibit (10) of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998.

F.


Non–Employee Director Stock Option Plan as amended through February 23,

1991 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)D of the Company’s Form 10-K

Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1990.

G.

(i)


Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit

(10)D of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,

1994.


ii)

Amendment

No. 1 to 1995 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan effective February 25,

2000 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)E(ii) of the Company’s Form

10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999.

H.

Ecolab

Inc. 2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option and Deferred Compensation

Plan.  Incorporated by reference to

Exhibit (10) of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2001.

I.

Form

of Director Indemnification Agreement dated August 11, 1989 –

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (19)A of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the

quarter ended September 30, 1989. 

Substantially identical agreements are in effect as to each director of

the Company.

J.

(i)

Ecolab

Executive Death Benefits Plan, as amended and restated effective March 1, 1994

- - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)J of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual

Report for the year ended December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P hereof.

(ii)

Amendment

No. 1 to Ecolab Executive Death Benefits Plan — Incorporated by reference to

Exhibit (10)H(ii) of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended

December 31, 1998.

(iii)

Second

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Executive Death Benefits Plan, effective

March 1, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)H(iii) of the

Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1998.

K.

Ecolab

Executive Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended and restated effective January

1, 1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)K of the Company’s 10-K

Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P hereof.

L.

Ecolab

Executive Financial Counseling Plan - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit

(10)K of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31,

1992.

M.

(i)

Ecolab

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended and restated effective July

1, 1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)M(i) of the Company’s 10-K

Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P hereof.


(ii)

First

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

effective as of July 1, 1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)M(ii)

of the Company’s 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1994.

(iii)

Second

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

effective as of July 1, 1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)M(iii)

of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.

(iv)

Third

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,

effective March 1, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)K(iv) of the

Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1998.

(v)

Fourth

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,

effective February 22, 2002.

N.

(i)            Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan, as

amended and restated effective September 1, 1994 - Incorporated by  reference to Exhibit (10)N of the Company’s

10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit (10)P hereof.

(ii)

First

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan effective as of January

1, 1995 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)N(ii) of the Company’s Form

10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1995.

(iii)

Second

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan effective January 1,

1997 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)O(iii) of the Company’s Form 10–K

Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1996.

(iv)

Third

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan effective November 13,

1997 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)L(iv) of the Company’s Form

10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1998.

(v)

Fourth

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan, effective September 1,

1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)L(v) of the Company’s Form 10-K

Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1998.


(vi)

Fifth

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Savings Plan, effective February 22,

2002.

O.

(i)

Ecolab

Mirror Pension Plan effective July 1, 1994 - Incorporated by reference to

Exhibit (10)O(i) of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended

December 31, 1994.  See also Exhibit

(10)P hereof.

(ii)

First

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan effective as of July 1,

1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)O(ii) of the Company’s Annual

Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.

(iii)

Second

Declaration to Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan effective as of July 1,

1994 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)O(iii) of the  Company’s Form 10–K Annual Report for the

year ended December 31, 1995.

(iv)

Third

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan, effective March 1, 1998

- - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)M(iv) of the Company’s Form 10-K

Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1998.

(v)

Fourth

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Mirror Pension Plan, effective February 22,

2002.

P.

(i)

Ecolab

Inc. Administrative Document for Non-Qualified Benefit Plans - Incorporated by

reference to Exhibit (10)N of the Company’s 10-K Annual Report for the year

ended December 31, 1994.

(ii)

Amendment

No. 1 to the Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for Non-Qualified Benefit

Plans effective July 1, 1997 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)N(ii)

of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended December 31, 1998.

(iii)

First

Declaration of Amendment to the Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for

Non-Qualified Benefit Plans effective November 13, 1997 - Incorporated by

reference to Exhibit (10)N(iii) of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for

the year ended December 31, 1998.

(iv)

Third

Declaration of Amendment to the Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for

Non-Qualified Benefit Plans effective July 1, 1999 -Incorporated by reference

to Exhibit (10)N(iv) of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year

ended December 31, 1999.


(v)

Fourth

Declaration of Amendment to Ecolab Inc. Administrative Document for

Non-Qualified Benefit Plans, effective February 22, 2002.

Q.


Ecolab Inc. Management Performance Incentive Plan - Incorporated by reference

to Exhibit (10)O of the Company’s Form 10-K Annual Report for the year ended

December 31, 1998.

R.

Ecolab

Inc. Change in Control Severance Compensation Policy, effective February 22,

2002.

S.

(i)

Master

Agreement, dated as of December 7, 2000, between Ecolab Inc. and Henkel KGaA -

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 18 of HC Investments, Inc.’s and Henkel

KGaA’s Amendment No. 5 to Schedule 13D dated July 16, 1991.

(ii)

Amendment

No. 1 to the Master Agreement, dated December 7, 2000, between Ecolab Inc. and

Henkel KGaA-Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10) of the Company’s Form

10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2001.

(iii)

Intellectual

Property Agreement dated November 30, 2001, between Ecolab and Henkel

KGaA-Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10) of the Company’s Current Report

on Form 8-K dated November 30, 2001.

T.

Description

of Ecolab Management Incentive Plan - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit

(10)R of the Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.

U.

Hiring

Letter of Bruno Deschamps - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit (10)T of the

Company’s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000.

(13)

Those

portions of the Company’s Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended

December 31, 2001 which are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV

hereof.

(21)

List

of Subsidiaries as of February 28, 2002.

(23)A.

Consent of

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to Incorporation by Reference at page 32 hereof is

filed as a part hereof.

B.

Consent

of PricewaterhouseCoopers Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung

Wirschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft.

(24)

Powers

of Attorney.


EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND

ARRANGEMENTS

Included in the preceding list of exhibits are the following management

contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements:


III.           Reports on Form 8–K:

The Company filed two Current Reports on Form 8-K during the quarter

ended December 31, 2001:  (i) a report

dated November 23, 2001 to announce that Henkel KGaA elected to receive payment

in cash for the previously announced sale to the Company of Henkel’s 50 percent

interest in the Henkel-Ecolab joint venture; and (ii) a report dated November

30, 2001 to report the closing of the Henkel-Ecolab transaction - which report

was amended on January 10, 2002 to file certain pro forma financial information

pursuant to Item 7(b) of Form 8-K.  In

addition, subsequent to the quarter ended December 31, 2001, the Company filed

four additional reports:  (i) dated

January 10, 2002 to announce that the Company plans to take certain restructuring

and other cost savings actions; (ii) dated January 28, 2002 to revise the

Company’s expected accounting treatment for a portion of its previously

announced restructuring and other cost savings actions; (iii) dated February 7,

2002 to announce that it had closed on the placement of €300,000,000 aggregate

principal amount of 5.375% Notes due 2007; and (iv) dated March 1, 2002 to

report certain management changes.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities

Exchange Act of 1934, Ecolab Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on

its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 8th day of

March, 2002.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,

this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of Ecolab

Inc. and in the capacities indicated, on the 8th day of March, 2002.


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT

SCHEDULE

To the Shareholders and Directors of Ecolab Inc.:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our

report dated February 14, 2002 appearing in the 2001 Annual Report to

Shareholders of Ecolab Inc. (which report and consolidated financial statements

are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included

an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item 14.I(2).(i) of this

Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly,

in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in

conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 14, 2002


CONSENT OF

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

TO INCORPORATION BY

REFERENCE

We hereby consent

to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements of Ecolab Inc.

on Form S–8 (Registration Nos. 2–60010; 2–74944; 33–1664;

33-41828; 2–90702; 33–18202; 33–55986; 33-56101; 333-95043;

33–26241; 33–34000; 33-56151; 333-18627; 33–39228; 33-56125;

333-70835; 33–60266; 333-95041; 33-65364; 33-59431; 333-18617; 333-79449;

333-35519; 333-40239; 333-95037; 333-50969; 333-62183; and 333-58360) and Form

S-3 (Registration No. 333-14771) of our report dated February 14, 2002 relating

to the consolidated financial statements of Ecolab Inc. as of December 31,

2001, 2000 and 1999 and for the years then ended, which appears in the 2001

Annual Report to Shareholders of Ecolab Inc., which is incorporated by

reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Ecolab Inc.  We also consent to the inclusion in this

Annual Report on Form 10-K of our report dated February 14, 2002 relating to

the financial statement schedule of Ecolab Inc. as of December 31, 2001, 2000

and 1999 and for the years then ended, which also appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

March 8, 2002


SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND

QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

ECOLAB INC.

(In

Thousands)

(A)

Included the effects of

changes in currency translation and business

acquisitions,

including Henkel-Ecolab in 2001.

(B)

Uncollectible accounts

charged off, net of recovery of accounts previously written off.


Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung

Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

Moskauer Straße 19

40227 Düsseldorf

Postfach 10 50 53

40041 Düsseldorf

Tel.: +49 (211) 981-0

Fax: +49 (201) 981-1000

Ein

  Unternehmen der Gruppe

PwC

  Deutsche Revision

Report of Independent Accountants

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Henkel-Ecolab:

In our opinion, the accompanying combined balance sheets and the

related combined statements of income and comprehensive income, of equity and of

cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of

Henkel-Ecolab at November 30, 2001 and 2000, and the results of their

operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended

November 30, 2001 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted

in the United States of America.  In

addition, in our opinion, the accompanying financial statement schedule

presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein

when read in conjunction with the related combined financial statements.  These financial statements and financial

statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management; our

responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and

financial statement schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with

auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which

require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about

whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test

basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial

statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates

made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement

presentation.  We believe that our

audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.


Henkel-Ecolab

Combined Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income

See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


Henkel-Ecolab

Combined Balance

Sheets

See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


Henkel-Ecolab

Combined Statements of Cash Flows

See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


Henkel-Ecolab

Combined Statements of Equity

See accompanying Notes to Combined Financial Statements


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Henkel-Ecolab (the “Company”) is a leading European company providing

total cleaning and hygiene systems and service solutions to institutional and

industrial companies. See Basis of Presentation within Note 2 of the combined

financial statements. The Company’s offerings include detergents, sanitation

cleaners, dosing and measuring equipment, cleaning machines, training and

service. Customers include hotels and restaurants; food service, healthcare and

educational facilities; commercial laundries; light industry; dairy plants and

farms as well as food and beverage processors throughout Europe.

The Company was formed in 1991 by Henkel KGaA (Henkel) and Ecolab, Inc.

(Ecolab) as a Company of their respective European institutional and industrial

hygiene businesses. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Company

Agreement dated June 26, 1991 (Company Agreement), Henkel and Ecolab have joint

control over the activities of the Company. The Company Agreement also provides

that both partners will share an equal economic interest in the profits or

losses of the Company. On December 1, 2001, Ecolab purchased Henkel´s share of

the Company. See note 10 of the combined financial statements.

Acquisitions

and Divestiture

Gibson Acquisition: In May 1999, the Company acquired certain assets of

Gibson UK Limited for a cash price of approximately TEUR 8,226 from Ecolab.

Gibson, located in Reading, England, provides warewashing and surface hygiene

products and services for customers in the retail markets. The acquisition has

been accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the results of operations of

Gibson are included in the accompanying financial statements since the date of

acquisition. The purchase price has been allocated to assets acquired and

liabilities assumed based on their fair value at the date of acquisition. The

excess of purchase price over the fair market value of net assets acquired of

TEUR 9,028 has been allocated to goodwill and is being amortized over 15 years.

The Company made additional acquisitions during the fiscal years ended

November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999; the aggregate impact of which was immaterial

to the combined financial statements.

Waldhausen Divestiture

: In June

2000, the Company divested the assets of the Floordress textile and equipment

production facility in Waldhausen, Germany in two separate but related

transactions for a price equal to the net book value of approximately TEUR

2,249.  Inno Concept, the supplier of

plastics to the plant, assumed responsibility of the textile and equipment

production (including substantially all the employees and the current

production building for textiles).  The

Company also entered into a long-term supply agreement for textiles and

equipment with Inno Concept.  Grupp, the

metal supplier, purchased the equipment production building in a real-estate

transaction.  As both transactions were

for a price equal to the net book value, no gain or loss was recorded on the

books for the sale of the assets related to Waldhausen.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING

POLICIES

Basis of Presentation

The financial statements are presented on a combined basis in

accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United

States of America. The Company is comprised of various entities. These entities

have varying legal structures, including stock corporations, limited liability

corporations and partnerships formed under the applicable laws in the

jurisdictions in which the Company operates. These entities are owned

beneficially by identical shareholders or their wholly- owned subsidiaries and

are, therefore, considered entities under common control.  All significant intergroup or affiliated

company accounts and transactions have been eliminated in combination. The

Company’s fiscal year end has been designated as November 30.

Adoption of New Currency Reporting

Prior to 2001, the Company prepared and reported its combined financial

statements in Deutsche Marks (“DM”). Beginning in 2001, the Company presented

its combined financial statements in Euro (“EUR”). Accordingly figures for 2000

and 1999 are shown in EUR using the Official Fixed Exchange Rate of 1 EUR = DM

1,95583. Henkel-Ecolab’s 2000 and 1999 Euro combined financial statements

depict the same trends as would have been presented if it had continued to

present its Combined Financial Statements in Deutsche Marks. The Company’s

Combined Financial Statements will however not be comparable to the Euro

financial statements of other companies that previously reported their

financial information in a currency other than Deutsche Marks.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements requires management to make

estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and

liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of

the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses

during the reporting periods. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Cash and

Cash Equivalents

Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with a maturity of three

months or less when purchased.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market with cost

determined using the first-in first-out and average cost methods.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

Property, Plant and Equipment, Net

Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost. Merchandising

equipment consists primarily of various systems for dispensing cleaning and

sanitizing products. Depreciation and amortization are charged to operations

using the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives:

Buildings and

  improvements

up to 50 years

Machinery and

  equipment

3 to 10 years

Furniture,

  fixtures and merchandising equipment

3 to 8 years

Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the

lesser of the useful life of the asset or the remaining term of the associated

lease. Betterments, renewals and repairs that extend the life of the asset are

capitalized; other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed. The cost and

accumulated depreciation/amortization applicable to the assets retired or disposed

of are removed from the accounts and any gain or loss is reflected in income in

the year of disposal.

Total depreciation expense for property, plant and equipment amounted

to TEUR 37,766, TEUR 35,753 and TEUR 33,276 for the years ended

November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Intangible

Assets

Intangible assets primarily consist of goodwill, capitalized software,

concessions and licenses. These assets are amortized on a straight-line basis

over their estimated lives, periods from 3 to 15 years. Total amortization

expense for all intangible assets amounted to

TEUR 8,676

, TEUR 8,245 and TEUR

11,557 for the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000, 1999, respectively.

The Company  capitalizes purchased software which is

ready for service and development costs incurred during the application

development stage. These costs are amortized using the straight-line method

over a maximum of three to five years or the expected life of the product,

whichever is less. The carrying value of capitalized software costs are

regularly reviewed by the Company and a loss is recognized if the unamortized

cost is in excess of the net realizable value.

Long-Lived Assets

The company periodically assesses the recoverability of long-lived and

intangible assets based on anticipated future earnings and operating cash

flows.

Revenue Recognition

The company recognizes revenue on product sales at the time title

transfers to the customer.  The company

records estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings

including pricing arrangements, promotions and other volume-based incentives at

the time of sale.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

Shipping

and Handling Costs

In connection with the adoption of Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”)

Issue No. 00-10, “Accounting for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs”, the

Company has reclassified certain warehousing and transportation expenses from

Selling, General and Administrative expenses (“SG&A”) to Cost of Sales.

Amounts reported for prior years have been reclassified to conform to the 2001

presentation. The reclassifications had no effect on the Company’s results of

operations or financial position. 

Expenses reclassified from SG&A to Costs of Sales were TEUR 66,982,

TEUR 62,205, and TEUR 55,535 for the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000, and

1999, respectively.  The effect of the

reclassification was to reduce gross margin by approximately 6.5 percentage points

in each year and reduce SG&A as a percent of sales by a comparable amount.

Advertising Costs

The Company expenses the costs of advertising in the period in which

the costs are incurred. Advertising expenses were TEUR 21,696, TEUR 21,093

and TEUR 19,687 for the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999,

respectively.

Research expenditures

Research expenditures which relate to the development of new products

and processes, including significant improvements and refinements to existing

products, were approximately TEUR 20,000, TEUR 18,900 and TEUR 18,700 for the

years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued

SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations”, and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other

Intangible Assets”, effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,

2001. Under the new rules, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have

indefinite lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual

impairment tests in accordance with the statements. Other intangible assets

will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. The Company will adopt

SFAS No. 141 and SFAS No. 142 in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. Upon adoption,

the Company will also perform the first of the required impairment tests of

goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles as of December 1, 2001. The Company

has not yet determined what impact the adoption of these statements will have

on its results of operations and financial position.

In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, “Accounting for Asset

Retirement Obligations.” This statement requires entities to record the fair

value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which

the asset is placed in service. When the liability is initially recorded,

entities capitalize the cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related

long-lived asset. Over time, the liability is accreted to its present value

each period, and the capitalized cost is depreciated over the useful life of

the related asset. Upon settlement of the liability, entities either settle the

obligation for the recorded amount or incur a gain or loss upon settlement.

This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002,

with earlier adoption encouraged. The Company does not believe that the

adoption of this statement will have a material impact on its results of

operations or financial position.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the

Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which replaces SFAS No. 121,

“Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of.” The

accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale applies to all

long-lived assets, including discontinued operations, and replaces the

provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, “Reporting Results of Operations—Reporting

the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business,” for the disposal of

segments of a business. This statement requires that those long-lived assets be

measured at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell,

whether reported in continuing operations or in discontinued operations. As a

result, discontinued operations will no longer be measured at net realizable

value or include amounts for operating losses that have not yet occurred. This

statement also broadens the reporting of discontinued operations to include all

components of an entity with operations that can be distinguished from the rest

of the entity and that will be eliminated from the ongoing operations of the

entity in a disposal transaction. This statement is effective for fiscal years

beginning after December 15, 2001. The Company does not believe that the

adoption of this statement will have a material impact on its results of

operations or financial position.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

3. BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

4. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Company has entered into various contractual arrangements,

including those discussed in the following paragraphs, for the supply of

products, the performance of general and administrative services and the

transfer of technology.

Certain Company entities purchase institutional and industrial hygiene

products (primarily finished goods inventories) from Henkel and its

subsidiaries under a variety of supply agreements. The terms of these

agreements allow these entities to purchase specified quantities at agreed upon

prices as defined by an annual supply plan submitted to the related

manufacturing facility. Henkel also provides certain Company entities with

elective services which include, but are not limited to, general

administration, payroll administration, accounting and research and

development. The costs of services are charged by Henkel on a monthly basis and

may not reflect the costs which the Company would incur if it were necessary to

procure such services from outside sources or if such services were performed

internally by the Company. Related party purchases and fees incurred by the

Company in consideration for these services totaled

TEUR 92,155

, TEUR 91,278 and TEUR 118,494 for

the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Royalty payments are shared equally by both parent companies based upon

a technology transfer agreement which provides for a royalty payment 1 % of

third party net sales as defined. Royalty expense related to this technology

transfer agreement amounted to TEUR 7,670, TEUR 7,455 and TEUR 7,648 for the

years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.  The royalty agreement terminated effective

December 1, 2001 when Ecolab acquired the 50% of the Company owned by Henkel.

The Company has entered into agreements with Henkel under which the

Company can both borrow from and lend to Henkel both on an overdraft basis and

through short term loans of no more than 3 months. There is currently no

maximum level of borrowing specified under these agreements. The interest rate

basis for both arrangements is the Euro London Interbank Offering Rate

(EURO-LIBOR). At November 30, 2001, the interest rates were 4.875 % for EURO

overdrafts and 3.53 % for 3 month short term EURO loans. On overdrafts,

approximately

50 basis points

are paid to compensate Henkel for administration costs.  These agreements terminated effective

December 1, 2001 when Ecolab acquired the 50% of the Company owned by Henkel.

At November 30, 2000 the Company had loans receivable from Henkel and

its subsidiaries of TEUR 6,039. No loans remain outstanding as of November 30,

2001. The fair values of related party loans receivable and payable approximate

book value.

The Company incurs and expenses certain costs on behalf of the parents

which by their nature are not arm’s length. The Company charges the parents for

these costs and has reflected the reimbursement of such costs, net of tax, in

the amount of TEUR 879, TEUR 382 and TEUR 706 as contributed capital for the

years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

5. INCOME TAXES

The components of income before income taxes and the provision for

income taxes for the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999,

respectively, are as follows:

The components of the Company's overall net

deferred tax asset at November 30:


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

At November 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had net foreign operating

loss carry forwards for tax purposes of approximately TEUR 6,868 and TEUR

5,010, respectively. A significant portion of these losses have an indefinite

carry forward period; the remaining losses have expiration dates up to five

years.

In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management

considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred

tax assets will not be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax

assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the

periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Management

considers the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities and projected

future taxable income in making this assessment. Based upon the level of

historical taxable income and projections for future taxable income over the

periods which the deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is

more likely than not the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible

differences at November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999. During  2000 and 1999, the valuation allowance

decreased by TEUR 694 and TEUR 5,285, respectively.

A reconciliation of the weighted average European effective tax rate to

the effective income tax rate is as follows:

The deferred taxes refundable to parent reflect the Company Agreement

in which the partners also agreed that all tax benefits realized after the

formation of the Company should be refunded to the respective parents if the

benefits relate to temporary differences that originated in periods prior to

the formation of the Company.

Cash paid for taxes for the years ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and

1999 was TEUR 27,317, TEUR 31,822 and TEUR 26,577, respectively.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

6. PENSION AND OTHER BENEFIT PLANS

Henkel-Ecolab sponsors several pension plans for its employees

throughout Europe including Germany, France, Netherlands, Belgium, Turkey,

Greece, the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain, Austria, Slovenia, Norway,

Switzerland and Ireland.

The following tables provide a reconciliation of the changes in the

plans benefit obligations and fair value of assets over the two year period

ended November 30, 2001 and 2000 and a statement of the funded status as of

November 30, 2001 and 2000 with the exception of the Italian termination

indemnity plan:


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

The following table provides the amounts recognized in the combined

balance sheet as of November 30, 2001 and 2000:

Included within the Employee Benefit Obligations in the combined

balance sheet is the Italian termination indemnity plan which provides a

benefit that is payable upon termination of employment virtually in all cases

of termination. This plan has no assets and is not included within the pension

disclosures provided within this footnote with the exception of the information

provided above.

The following table provides the components of net periodic pension

cost for the plans for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2001, 2000, 1999:

Pursuant to the provisions of Statement Of Financial Accounting

Standards No. 87 “Employer`s Accounting for Pensions”, the Company has recorded

an additional pension liability adjustment 

of TEUR 7,161

,

and TEUR 2,290 as of November 30, 2001

and 2000, respectively, representing the amount by which the accumulated

benefit obligation over the fair value of plan assets exceeded the accrued

pension liability for certain plans.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

The following amounts, net of tax, have been included within other

comprehensive income arising from a change in the additional minimum pension

liability for the year ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively

TEUR (3,584), TEUR (54) and TEUR 285.

The accumulated benefit obligation for these plans was TEUR 61,333 at November

30, 2001 and TEUR 53,304 at November 30, 2000.

The assumptions used in the measurement of the Company`s benefit

obligations are shown in the following table:


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

7. TOTAL INDEBTEDNESS

Short Term Debt

Short term debt of TEUR 28,832 and TEUR 6,845 at November 30, 2001 and

2000, respectively, consists primarily of short term credit facilities and bank

overdrafts. The weighted average interest rate on short term debt outstanding

(in all borrowing entities across Europe) was 4.45% at November 30, 2001 and

6.0% at November 30, 2000.

At November 30, 2001, the Company had TEUR 71,996 available through

multiple bank lines of credit under which the Company may borrow on an

overdraft or short term basis. Interest rates are based on local money market

rates.

Long Term Debt

Long term debt at November 30, 2001 and 2000 consists of the following:

The note, which is denominated in Danish Kroni, has a fixed annual

interest rate of 10.07 % and is due June 30, 2002.

The fair value of short and long term debt approximates the book value.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

8. FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT

Financial risk factors

The Company´s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks,

including the effects of foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.

The Company´s overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability

of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the

financial performance of the Company. Henkel-Ecolab uses derivative financial

instruments such as foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain exposures.

Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department (Group

Treasury) under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Group Treasury

identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the

operating units. The Board provides written principles for overall risk

management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as

foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial

instruments and investing excess liquidity.

Foreign exchange risk

The Company operates internationally and is

exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures

primarily with respect to the currencies set out in the table below. The

Company uses forward contracts, transacted with Group Treasury, to hedge their

exposure to foreign currency risk in the local reporting currency. Group

Treasury is responsible for hedging the net position in each currency by using

external forward contracts.

At the group level, external foreign exchange contracts are designated

as hedges of foreign exchange risk on specific assets, liabilities or future

transactions.

Since the Company has subsidiaries not accounting for the results of

their operations in Euro, the Euro denominated value of the equity of the

Company is also exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates.

The accounts of all foreign subsidiaries and affiliates are generally

measured using the local currency as the functional currency, except for two

countries where, due to hyperinflation, the functional currency has been

changed to the Company´s reporting currency. With the exception of the

hyperinflationary countries, assets and liabilities are translated into the

Company’s reporting currency, at period-end exchange rates. Income statement

accounts are translated to the reporting currency at the average rates of

exchange prevailing during the year.

Net unrealized exchange gains or losses resulting from such translation

are excluded from net earnings and accumulated in a separate component of

combined equity. Gains and losses arising from foreign currency transactions

during the year and the translation adjustments from hyperinflationary

countries are included in the related income statement category. Total gains

and (losses) recognized for the year ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999

were (2,650), 469 and (952) respectively.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

Notional Amounts and Credit Exposures

of Derivatives

The notional amounts of derivatives summarized below do not represent

amounts exchanged by the parties and, thus, are not a measure of the exposure

of the Company through its use of derivatives. The amounts exchanged are

calculated on the basis of the notional amounts and the other terms of the

derivatives, which relate to exchange rates.

Financial instruments contain an element of risk that the

counterparties may not be able to meet the terms of the agreement. However, the

Company minimises this risk by limiting its counterparties to major banks and

financial institutions. Direct credit risk represents the risk of loss from

counterparty default in relation to on-balance sheet products. Management does

not expect counterparties to default given their high credit ratings.

Foreign Exchange Risk Management

The Company enters into foreign exchange contracts in managing its

foreign exchange rate risks, as indicated in the following table:

November 30, 2001

November 30, 2000

Notional

Amount

TEUR

Credit

Exposure

TEUR

Notional

Amount

TEUR

Credit

Exposure

TEUR

Forward exchange

  contracts

71,579

-

52,177

-

The purpose of foreign exchange contracts purchased is to hedge various

intercompany loans and hedge certain existing and anticipated future net

foreign exchange exposures. The anticipated future foreign exchange exposure of

the Company is the total of the net balances of all known and planned incoming

and outgoing payments of the companies in foreign currencies during a twelve

month time horizon.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

The table below summarizes by major currency the contractual amounts of

the Company´s forward exchange contracts in EURO. Foreign currency amounts are

translated at rates current at the reporting date. The “buy” amounts represent

the EURO equivalent of commitments to purchase foreign currencies, and the

“sell” amounts represent the EURO equivalent of commitments to sell foreign

currencies :

Interest

rate risk

The Company is exposed to interest rate risk through changes in the

interest expense, which arises through interest bearing liabilities. Estimated

future changes in cash flows and balance sheet structure also expose the

Company to interest rate risk. The individual entities of the combined company

are responsible to manage their short term interest rate exposure through a

group cash management system. Long term interest rate exposure is monitored and

managed by Group Treasury.

Credit

risk

The Company has no significant concentrations of credit risks. The

Company has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and services are

made to customers with an appropriate credit history. Derivative counterparties

and cash transactions are limited to high credit quality financial

institutions. The Company has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure

to any one financial institution.

Liquidity

risk

Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash

and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate

amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market

positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses. Group

Treasury aims at maintaining flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit

lines available.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

Accounting

for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities

Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized in the

balance sheet at cost and subsequently are remeasured at their fair value.

Generally derivative transactions entered into by the Company, while

providing effective economic hedges under the Company´s risk management policies,

do not qualify for hedge accounting under the specific rules in FAS 133.

Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for

hedge accounting under FAS 133 are recognised immediately in the income

statement.

Fair

value estimation

The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined

using forward exchange market rates at the balance sheet date.

In assessing the fair value of non-traded derivatives and other

financial instruments, the Company uses a variety of methods and makes

assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each balance sheet

date.

The face values less any estimated credit adjustments for financial

assets and liabilities with a maturity of less than one year are assumed to approximate

their fair values.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

9. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has a number of operating lease agreements primarily

involving motor vehicles, computer and other office equipment. The following is

a schedule by year of the future minimum lease payments required under the

operating leases that have initial or remaining noncancellable lease terms in

excess of one year as of November 30, 2001:

Rent expense for the year ended November 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, was

approximately TEUR

14,941

,

TEUR 14,274 and TEUR 16,039, respectively.

The Company is subject to lawsuits and claims arising out of the

conduct of its business, including those relating to commercial transactions

and environmental safety. Although the outcomes of such matters are unpredictable,

management believes that the final disposition will not have a material adverse

effect on the combined financial position or results of operations of the

Company.

The Company’s operations and customers are located throughout Europe

and operate in the industrial and institutional hygiene business. No single

customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s sales in 2001, 2000 or

1999, and there were no significant accounts receivable from a single customer

at November 30, 2001 and 2000. The Company establishes an allowance for

doubtful accounts based upon factors surrounding the credit risk of specific

customers, historical trends and other information.


Henkel-Ecolab

Notes to Combined Financial

Statements

November 30, 2001 and 2000

10. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

Change in shareholders

Effective December 1

st

, 2001 Ecolab aquired

the 50 % of the Company owned by Henkel. After giving effect to this

transaction, the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ecolab.

Acquisition

of Kleencare Hygiene businesses

In January 2002, the Company acquired the outstanding

share of the Kleencare Hygiene operations in the United Kingdom, France,

Switzerland and the Netherlands (“Kleencare”) from LHS Holdings Limited of the

United Kingdom.  Kleencare specializes

in hygiene services, products and systems for the food and beverage industry.

The purchase price of .approximately EUR 17.7 million (at the year end exchange

rate) was financed by utilizing existing unused credit facilities. The

acquisition will be accounted for as a purchase; accordingly, the purchase

price will be allocated to the underlying assets and liabilities based on their

respective estimated values at the date of the acquisition. Unaudited pro forma

information related to this acquisition is not included as the impact of the

acquisition is not deemed to be material.


HENKEL-ECOLAB

Schedule – Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and

Reserves

(Thousands)

(a) Provision for

doubtful accounts

(charged to expenses)

(b) Items determined to

be uncollectible,

less recovery of amounts previously written off.


EXHIBIT INDEX

The following documents are filed as exhibits to this Report.










B.

Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers Gesellschaft mit

  beschränkter Haftung Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft.

Filed herewith electronically.

68