10-K


a06-2286_110k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 AND 15(D)

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION

Washington,
D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

ECOLAB INC.

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

Registrant’s telephone
number, including area code:

(651) 293-2233

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

ý

YES

o

NO

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is
not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of
the Act.

o

YES

ý

NO

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

ý

YES

o

NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of
this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

ý

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated
filer” and “large accelerated filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one):

Large Accelerated Filer

ý

Accelerated Filer

o

Non-Accelerated Filer

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2
of the Exchange Act).

o

YES

ý

NO

Aggregate

market value of voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of registrant
on June 30, 2005:  $8,239,621,794
(see Item 12, under Part III hereof), based on a closing price of
registrant’s Common Stock of $32.36 per share.

The number of shares of registrant’s
Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, outstanding as of February 21,
2006: 253,210,779 shares.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1.

Portions of the registrant’s Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2005 (hereinafter referred to
as “Annual Report”) are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

2.

Portions of the registrant’s Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 12, 2006 and to be
filed within 120 days after the registrant’s fiscal year ended December 31,
2005 (hereinafter referred to as “Proxy Statement”) are incorporated by
reference into Part III.


PART I

Except where the context
otherwise requires, references in this Form 10-K to either “Ecolab,” “Company,”
“we” and “our” are to Ecolab Inc. and its subsidiaries, collectively.

Forward-Looking
Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K,
including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operation” in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
statements include expectations concerning business progress and expansion,
business acquisitions, currency translation, cash flows, debt repayments,
environmental and regulatory considerations, share repurchases, susceptibility
to changes in technology, global economic conditions, pension expenses and
potential contributions, and liquidity requirements. Without limiting the
foregoing, words or phrases such as “will likely result,” “are expected to,” “will
continue,” “is anticipated,” “we believe,” “estimate,” “project” (including the
negative or variations thereof) or similar terminology, generally identify
forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements may also represent
challenging goals for us. We caution that undue reliance should not be placed
on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Some
of the factors which could cause results to differ from those expressed in any
forward-looking statement are set forth under Item 1A of this Form 10-K,
entitled Risk Factors.

Item 1. Business

.

Item 1(a) General
Development of Business

.

Ecolab was incorporated
as a Delaware corporation in 1924. Our fiscal year is the calendar year ending December 31.

During 2005, we continued
to make business acquisitions to broaden our product and service offerings, in
line with our “Circle the Customer – Circle the Globe” strategy. These
transactions included the following:

•

In
January 2005, we acquired Associated Chemicals & Services, Inc.
(a/k/a Midland Research), a water treatment business. Midland had annual sales
of approximately $16,000,000 and this business became part of our United
States Cleaning & Sanitizing and International operations.

•

In
February 2005, we acquired YSC Chemical Company (YSC) based in Bangkok,
Thailand. YSC provides floor cleaning and finishing products in East Asia. YSC
had annual sales of approximately $3,000,000 and this business became part of
our International operations.

•

In
April 2005, we purchased certain operations of Kilco Chemicals Ltd. based
near Belfast, Northern Ireland. Kilco offers products, systems and services for
the food and beverage processing industry. Kilco had annual sales of
approximately $5,000,000 and this business became part of our
International operations.

Additional details
regarding certain of the above acquisition transactions are found in Note 5 located
on pages 39 and 40 of the Annual Report, and incorporated into Item 8
hereof.


Item 1(b) Financial
Information About Operating Segments

.

The financial information
about reportable segments appearing under the heading “Operating Segments” in
Note 15, located on pages 48 and 49 of the Annual Report, is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 1(c) Narrative
Description of Business

.

General:

Ecolab develops and markets premium products
and services for the hospitality, foodservice, healthcare and industrial
markets. We provide cleaning, sanitizing, pest elimination, maintenance and
repair products and services primarily to hotels and restaurants, healthcare and
educational facilities, quick-service (fast-food and other convenience store)
units, grocery stores, commercial and institutional laundries, light industry,
dairy plants and farms, food and beverage processors, pharmaceutical and
cosmetics facilities and the vehicle wash industry. A strong commitment to
customer support is a distinguishing characteristic of our business. Additional
information on our business philosophy is found below under the heading “Additional
Information – Competition” of this Item 1(c).

The following description of our business is based upon our three
reportable segments as reported in our consolidated financial statements. However,
we pursue a “Circle the Customer – Circle the Globe” strategy by providing
products, systems and services which serve our customer base, and do so on a
global basis to meet the needs of our customers’ various operations around the
world. Therefore, one customer may utilize the services of all three of
the segments and there is a degree of interdependence among the operating
segments. Revenues of our International segment include sales outside the
United States by our Kay and Pest Elimination businesses.

United States Cleaning & Sanitizing Segment

The “United States
Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment is comprised of eight divisions which
provide cleaning and sanitizing services to United States markets.

Institutional

:  Our Institutional Division is our largest
division and sells specialized cleaners and sanitizers for washing dishes,
glassware, flatware, foodservice utensils and kitchen equipment (“warewashing”),
for on-premise laundries (typically used by hotel and health care customers)
and for general housekeeping functions, as well as food safety products and
equipment, dishwasher racks and related kitchen sundries to the foodservice,
lodging, educational and healthcare industries, and water filters to the
foodservice industry. The Institutional Division also provides pool and spa
treatment programs for hospitality and other commercial customers. The Institutional
Division also manufactures and markets various chemical dispensing device
systems, which are made available to customers, to dispense our cleaners and
sanitizers. In addition, the Institutional Division markets a lease program
comprised of energy-efficient dishwashing machines, detergents, rinse additives
and sanitizers, including full machine maintenance.

We believe we are the
leading supplier of chemical warewashing products to institutions in the United
States.

The Institutional
Division sells its products and services primarily through company-employed
field sales-and-service personnel. However, to a significant degree, we also
utilize independent, third-party foodservice distributors to market and sell
our products to smaller accounts or accounts which purchase through food
distributors. We provide the same service to accounts supplied by food
distributors as to direct customers.


Kay

:  Our Kay Division (which consists of certain
wholly-owned subsidiaries of Ecolab Inc.) supplies chemical cleaning and
sanitizing products primarily to national and regional quick-service restaurant
chains and to the food retail (i.e., grocery store) industry. Kay’s products
include specialty and general purpose hard surface cleaners, degreasers,
sanitizers, polishes, hand care products and assorted cleaning tools. Products
are sold under the “Kay” brand or the customer’s private label. In addition,
Kay supports its product sales with employee training programs and technical
support designed to meet the special needs of its customers. Kay’s customized
cleaning and sanitation programs are designed to reduce labor costs and product
usage while increasing sanitation levels, cleaning performance, equipment life
and safety levels.

Kay employs a direct
field sales force which primarily calls upon national and regional
quick-service restaurant and food retail chains and franchisees, although the
sales are made to distributors who supply the chain or franchisee’s units.

We believe that our Kay
Division is the leading supplier of chemical cleaning and sanitizing products
to the traditional quick-service restaurant industry in the United States. While
Kay’s customer base has been growing, Kay’s business is largely dependent upon
a limited number of major quick-service restaurant chains and franchisees. Kay
continues to seek growth and diversification opportunities.

Food & Beverage

:  Our Food & Beverage Division
addresses cleaning and sanitation at the beginning of the food chain to
facilitate the production of products for human consumption. The Division
provides detergents, cleaners, sanitizers, lubricants and animal health
products, as well as cleaning systems, electronic dispensers and chemical
injectors for the application of chemical products, primarily to dairy plants,
dairy farms, breweries, soft-drink bottling plants, and meat, poultry and other
food processors as well as to pharmaceutical and cosmetic plants. The Food &
Beverage Division is also a leading developer and marketer of antimicrobial
products used in direct contact with meat, poultry, seafood and produce during
processing in order to reduce microbial contamination on those surfaces. The
Division also designs, engineers and installs CIP (“clean-in-place”) process
control systems and facility cleaning systems for its customer base. Farm
products are sold through dealers and independent, third-party distributors,
while plant products are sold primarily by our field sales personnel.

We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of cleaning and
sanitizing products to the dairy plant, dairy farm, food, meat and poultry, and
beverage/brewery processor industries in the United States.

Textile Care

:  Our Textile Care Division provides chemical
laundry products and proprietary dispensing systems, as well as related
services, to large industrial and commercial laundries. Typically these
customers process a minimum of 1,000,000 pounds of linen each year and include
free-standing laundry plants used by institutions such as hotels, restaurants
and healthcare facilities as well as industrial and textile rental laundries. The
Division also serves the shirt laundry market, typically comprised of smaller
laundry units. Products and services include laundry cleaning and specialty
products and related dispensing equipment, which are marketed primarily through
a Company-employed sales force and, to a lesser extent, through independent,
third-party distributors. The Division’s programs are designed to meet our
customer’s need for exceptional cleaning, while extending the useful life of
linen and reducing the customer’s overall operating cost.


Professional Products:

The Professional Products Division provides a
broad range of cleaning and floor care products, systems and services to the
commercial janitorial industry which services the retail, health care,
government building services and industrial markets in the United States. Professional
Products’ proprietary janitorial offerings (detergents, general purpose
cleaners, carpet care, stone care, furniture polishes, disinfectants, floor
care products, hand soaps and odor counteractants) are sold primarily through a
network of independent, third-party distributors, supported by a Company-employed
sales force.

Healthcare

:  Our Healthcare Division provides infection
prevention and healthcare offerings to hospital, acute care and long-term care
markets in the United States. Healthcare’s proprietary infection
prevention/healthcare products (skin care, disinfectants and instrument cleaners)
are sold primarily under the “Huntington” brand name.

Vehicle Care:

Our Vehicle Care Division provides vehicle
appearance products which include soaps, polishes, sealants, wheel and tire
treatments and air fresheners. Products are sold to vehicle rental, fleet and
consumer car wash and detail operations. Brand names utilized by the Vehicle
Care Division include Blue Coral

Ò

,
Black Magic

Ò

and Rain-X

Ò

.

Water Care Services

:  Water Care Services provides water and
wastewater treatment products, services and systems for
commercial/institutional customers (full service hotels, cruise ships,
hospitals, healthcare, commercial real estate, government, and commercial
laundries), food and beverage customers (dairies, meat, poultry, food
processing and beverage) and other light industry. Water Care Services works
closely with our Institutional, Textile Care and Food & Beverage
Divisions to offer customized water care strategies to their accounts that have
water care needs, primarily to treat water used in heating and cooling systems
and manufacturing processes and to treat wastewater.

United States Other Services Segment

The “United States Other
Services” segment is comprised of two business units:  Pest Elimination and GCS Service. In general,
these businesses provide service or equipment which can augment or extend our
product offering to our business customers as a part of our “Circle the
Customer” approach.

Pest Elimination

:  Our Pest Elimination Division provides
services for the detection, elimination and prevention of pests to restaurants,
food and beverage processors, educational and healthcare facilities, hotels,
quick-service restaurant and grocery operations and other institutional and
commercial customers. These services are sold and performed by Company-employed
sales and service personnel. In addition, through our EcoSure Food Safety
Management business, the Division provides customized on-site evaluations,
training and quality assurance services to foodservice operations.

GCS Service

:  GCS Service provides commercial equipment
repair services and installed parts, as well as parts distribution. GCS Service
offers these services to restaurant and other foodservice operations, while
providing warranty service for equipment manufacturers. In addition, GCS Service
offers parts at a wholesale level to repair services companies and end users.

International Segment

We conduct business in approximately 70 countries outside of the United
States through wholly-owned subsidiaries or, in the case of Israel and
Venezuela, through majority-owned joint ventures


with local partners. In other countries, selected products are sold by
our export operations to distributors, agents or licensees, although the volume
of those sales is not significant in terms of our overall revenues. Our largest
International operations are located in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and
Canada, with smaller operations in Africa and the Middle East.

In general, the businesses conducted internationally are similar to
those conducted in the United States, although we customize our products and
services to meet unique local requirements. The businesses which are similar to
the United States’ Institutional and Food & Beverage businesses are
the largest businesses in our International operations. They are conducted in
virtually all our International locations and, compared to the United States,
constitute a larger portion of the overall business. Kay also has sales in a
number of International locations. A significant portion of Kay’s international
sales are to international units of United States-based quick-service
restaurant chains. Consequently, a substantial portion of Kay’s international
sales are made either to domestic or internationally-located third-party
distributors who serve these chains.

Through acquisitions we expanded our Pest Elimination business to
Brazil in 2001, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland in 2002, to France
and South Africa in 2004, and to Chile in early 2005. In addition, we entered
the healthcare market in the United Kingdom by acquiring a supplier of hospital
hygiene products in late 2002.

Our other businesses are conducted less extensively in our International
locations. However, in general, most of the principal businesses conducted in
the United States are operated in Canada.

International businesses are subject to the usual risks of foreign
operations, including possible changes in trade and foreign investment laws,
tax laws, currency exchange rates and economic and political conditions abroad.
The profitability of our International operations has historically been lower
than the profitability of our businesses in the United States. This has been
due to the smaller scale of the International operations as well as the
additional cost of operating in numerous and diverse foreign jurisdictions.

Additional Information

Competition

:  Our business units have two significant
classes of competitors. First, each business unit competes with a small number
of large companies selling directly or through distributors on a national or
international scale. Second, all of our business units have numerous smaller
regional or local competitors which focus on more limited geographies, product
lines and/or end-user segments.

Our objective is to achieve a significant presence in each of our
business markets. In general, competition is based on service, product
performance and price. We believe we compete principally by providing superior
value, premium service and differentiated products. Value is provided by
state-of-the-art cleaning, sanitation and maintenance products and systems
coupled with high customer support standards and continuing dedication to
customer satisfaction. This is made possible, in part, by our significant
on-going investment in training and technology and by our standard practice of
advising customers on means to lower operating costs and helping them comply
with safety, environmental and sanitation regulations. In addition, we
emphasize our ability to uniformly provide a variety of related premium
cleaning and sanitation services to our customers and to provide that level of
service to multiple locations of chain customer organizations worldwide. This
approach is succinctly stated in our “Circle the Customer - Circle the Globe”
strategy which is discussed above in this Item 1(c) under the heading “General.”


Sales and Service

:  Products, systems and services are primarily
marketed in domestic and international markets by Company-trained sales and
service personnel who also advise and assist our customers in the proper and
efficient use of the products and systems in order to meet a full range of cleaning
and sanitation needs. Independent, third-party distributors are utilized in
several markets, as described in the business unit descriptions found under the
discussion of the three reportable segments above.

Number of Employees

:  We have approximately 22,400 employees.

Customers and Classes of Service

:  We believe that our business is not
materially dependent upon a single customer although, as described above in
this Item 1(c) under the description of the Kay business, Kay is largely
dependent upon a limited number of national and international quick-service
chains and franchisees. Additionally, although we have a diverse customer base
and no customer or distributor constitutes ten percent or more of our
consolidated revenues, we do have customers and independent, third-party
distributors, the loss of which could have a material negative effect on
results of operations for the affected earnings periods; however, we consider
it unlikely that such an event would have a material adverse impact on our financial
position. No material part of our business is subject to renegotiation or
termination at the election of a governmental unit. We sell two classes of
products which each constitute 10 percent or more of our sales. Sales of
warewashing products in 2005, 2004 and 2003 approximated 21, 22, and 23
percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. In addition, through our
Institutional and Textile Care businesses, we sell laundry products and
services to a broad range of laundry customers. Sales of laundry products and
services in 2005, 2004 and 2003 approximated 11, 10 and 10 percent,
respectively, of our consolidated net sales.

Patents and Trademarks

:  We own and license a number of patents,
trademarks and other intellectual property, including through a license
agreement with Henkel KGaA. While we have an active program to protect our
intellectual property by filing for patents or trademarks, and pursuing legal
action, when appropriate, to prevent infringement, we do not believe that our
overall business is materially dependent on any individual patent or trademark.

Seasonality

:  Overall our business does not have a
significant degree of seasonality.

Working Capital

:  We have invested in the past, and will
continue to invest in the future, in merchandising equipment consisting
primarily of systems used by customers to dispense our cleaning and sanitizing
products. Otherwise, we have no unusual working capital requirements. The
investment in merchandising equipment is discussed under the heading “Cash
Flows” located on page 28 of the Annual Report and incorporated into Item
7 hereof.

Manufacturing and Distribution

:  We manufacture most of our products and
related equipment in Company-owned manufacturing facilities. Some products are
also produced for us by third-party contract manufacturers, including Henkel
KGaA. Other products and equipment are purchased from third-party suppliers. Additional
information on product/equipment sourcing is found in the segment discussions
above and additional information on our manufacturing facilities is located
beginning at page 15 hereof under the heading “Properties.”

Deliveries to customers
are made from our manufacturing plants and a network of distribution centers
and public warehouses. We use common carriers, our own delivery vehicles, and
distributors. Additional information on our plant and distribution facilities
is located beginning at page 15 hereof under the heading “Properties.”


Raw Materials

:  Raw materials purchased for use in
manufacturing our products are inorganic chemicals, including phosphates,
silicates, alkalis, salts and organic chemicals, including surfactants and
solvents. These materials are generally purchased on an annual contract basis
from a diverse group of chemical manufacturers. When practical, global sourcing
is used so that purchasing or production locations can be shifted to control
product costs at globally competitive levels. Pesticides used by our Pest
Elimination Division are purchased as finished products under contract or
purchase order from the producers or their distributors. We also purchase
packaging materials for our manufactured products and components for our
specialized cleaning equipment and systems. Most raw materials, or substitutes
for those materials, used by us, with the exception of a few specialized
chemicals which we manufacture, are available from several suppliers.

Research and Development

:  Our research and development program consists
principally of devising and testing new products, processes, techniques and
equipment, improving the efficiency of existing ones, improving service program
content, and evaluating the environmental compatibility of products. Key
disciplines include analytical and formulation chemistry, microbiology, process
and packaging engineering and product dispensing technology. Substantially all
of our principal products have been developed by our research, development and
engineering personnel. At times, technology has also been licensed from third
parties to develop offerings. Note 12, entitled “Research Expenditures” located
on page 44 of the Annual Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Environmental and Regulatory
Considerations

:  Our
businesses are subject to various legislative enactments and regulations
relating to the protection of the environment and public health. While we
cooperate with governmental authorities and take commercially practicable
measures to meet regulatory requirements and avoid or limit environmental
effects, some risks are inherent in our businesses. Among the risks are costs
associated with transporting and managing hazardous substances, waste disposal
or plant site clean-up, fines and penalties if we are found to be in violation
of law, as well as modifications, disruptions or discontinuation of certain
operations or types of operations including product recalls. Additionally,
although we are not currently aware of any such circumstances, there can be no
assurance that future legislation or enforcement policies will not have a
material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position
or cash flows. Environmental and regulatory matters most significant to us are
discussed below.

Ingredient Legislation

:  Various laws and regulations have been
enacted by state, local and foreign jurisdictions pertaining to the sale of
products which contain phosphorous, volatile organic compounds, or other
ingredients that may impact human health or the environment. Under
California Proposition 65, label disclosures are required for certain products
containing chemicals listed by California. To date, we generally have been able
to comply with such legislative requirements by reformulation or labeling
modifications. Such legislation has not had a material negative effect on our
consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows to date.

Pesticide Legislation

:  Various international, federal and state
environmental laws and regulations govern the manufacture and/or use of
pesticides. We manufacture and sell certain disinfecting and sanitizing
products which kill microorganisms (bacteria, viruses, fungi) on environmental
surfaces and on certain food products. Such products constitute “pesticides” or
“antimicrobial pesticides” under the current definitions of the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (“FIFRA”), as amended by the Food
Quality Protection Act of 1996, the principal federal statute governing the
manufacture, labeling, handling and use of pesticides. We maintain


approximately 400 product
registrations with the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). Registration
entails the necessity to meet certain efficacy, toxicity and labeling
requirements and to pay on-going registration fees. In addition, each state in
which these products are sold requires registration and payment of a fee. In
general, the states impose no substantive requirements different from those
required by FIFRA. However, California and certain other states have adopted
additional regulatory programs, and California imposes a tax on total pesticide
sales in that State. While the cost of complying with rules as to
pesticides has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
liquidity or the results of our operations to date, the costs and delays in
receiving necessary approvals for these products continue to increase. Total
fees paid to the EPA and the states to obtain or maintain pesticide
registrations, and for the California tax, were approximately $2,900,000 in 2005
and $2,700,000 in 2004. In Europe, the Biocidal Product Directive (98/8/EC) is
establishing a program to evaluate and authorize marketing of biocidal active
substances and products. The Biocidal Product Directive requirements are
transitioning into effect. In September 2006, certain biocidal active
substances not notified to the European Chemicals Bureau will be withdrawn from
the market. We are working with suppliers and industry groups to manage
requirements associated with the Biocidal Products Directive. Anticipated
registration costs are not expected to significantly affect our consolidated
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

In addition, our Pest Elimination Division applies
restricted-use pesticides which it generally purchases from third parties. That
Division must comply with certain standards pertaining to the use of such
pesticides and to the licensing of employees who apply such pesticides. Such
regulations are enforced primarily by the states or local jurisdictions in
conformity with federal regulations. We have not experienced material
difficulties in complying with these requirements.

FDA Antimicrobial Product
Requirements

:  Various
laws and regulations have been enacted by federal, state, local and foreign
jurisdictions regulating certain products manufactured and sold by us for
controlling microbial growth on humans, animals, processed foods, and medical
devices. In the United States, these requirements generally are administered by
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). The FDA has been expanding
requirements applicable to such products, including proposing regulations in a
Tentative Final Monograph for Healthcare Antiseptic Drug Products dated June 17,
1994 that may impose additional requirements and associated costs when
finalized by the FDA. To date, such requirements have not had a material
negative effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or
cash flows.

Europe

:  The European Union is developing a new
regulatory framework for the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of
Chemicals (REACH). It is expected that a final decision on REACH will be made
by the European Parliament and Council in autumn 2006. The Commission expects
the REACH Regulation to enter into force in spring 2007, with an implementation
schedule to follow. Accordingly, operational requirements of REACH are
expected to apply from 2008 onwards.

REACH is expected to
establish a new European Chemicals Agency in Helsinki, Finland. The Agency would
be responsible for evaluating data to determine hazards and risks and to manage
this program for authorizing chemicals for sale and distribution in Europe. All
“new” and “existing” chemicals produced or imported


into the EU in quantities
above 1 ton per year must be registered in a central database. For chemicals
deemed to be of most concern, industry must gain specific authorization for
particular uses which have been demonstrated to be safe. Other uses would be
prohibited.

To manage this new
program, we expect to simplify our product line, and we are working with
chemical suppliers to begin evaluating potential implications. The eventual
impact of REACH will also be felt by our competitors. Potential costs to us are
not yet quantifiable.

Other Environmental
Legislation

:  Our
manufacturing plants are subject to federal, state, local or foreign
jurisdiction laws and regulations relating to discharge of hazardous substances
into the environment and to the transportation, handling and disposal of such
substances. The primary federal statutes that apply to our activities are the
Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act (“RCRA”). We are also subject to the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986, which imposes certain reporting requirements as to
emissions of hazardous substances into the air, land and water. We make capital
investments and expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations,
to ensure employee safety and to carry out its announced environmental
stewardship principles. To date, such expenditures have not had a significant
adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition
or liquidity. Our capital expenditures for environmental health and safety
projects were approximately $4,230,000 in 2005 and $1,810,000 in 2004. Approximately
$7,000,000 has been budgeted globally for projects in 2006.

Environmental Remediation
and Proceedings

:  Along
with numerous other potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”), we are currently
involved with waste disposal site clean-up activities imposed by the federal
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”)
or state equivalents at 21 sites in the United States. Additionally, we have
similar liability at eight sites outside the United States. In general, under
CERCLA, we and each other PRP which actually contributes hazardous substances
to a Superfund site are jointly and severally liable for the costs associated
with cleaning up the site. Customarily, the PRPs will work with the EPA to
agree and implement a plan for site remediation. Pursuant to an Environmental
Agreement dated December 7, 2000 with Henkel KGaA, Henkel agreed to
indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities associated with the parties’
former joint venture in Europe. Reimbursement from Henkel has been requested
for 42,785 euro (or approximately $52,000) spent for such environmental
liabilities prior to December 31, 2005.

Based on an analysis of our experience with such environmental
proceedings, our estimated share of all hazardous materials deposited on the
sites referred to in the preceding paragraph, and our estimate of the
contribution to be made by other PRPs which we believe have the financial
ability to pay their shares, we have accrued our best estimate of our probable
future costs relating to such known sites. Unasserted claims are not reflected
in the accrual. In establishing accruals, potential insurance reimbursements
are not included. The accrual is not discounted. It is not feasible to predict
when the amounts accrued will be paid due to the uncertainties inherent in the
environmental remediation and associated regulatory processes.


Our worldwide net expenditures for contamination
remediation were approximately $800,000 in 2005 and $500,000 in 2004. Including
the ChemLawn matters described below, our worldwide accruals at December 31,
2005 for probable future remediation expenditures totaled approximately $4,300,000.
We review our exposure for contamination remediation costs periodically and our
accruals are adjusted as considered appropriate. While the final resolution of
these issues could result in costs below or above current accruals and,
therefore, have an impact on our consolidated financial results in a future
reporting period, we believe the ultimate resolution of these matters will not
have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial
condition or liquidity. In addition, we have retained responsibility for
certain sites where our former ChemLawn business is a PRP. Currently there are
five such locations and, at each, ChemLawn is a

de minimis

party. Anticipated costs currently accrued for these matters were included in
our loss from our discontinued ChemLawn operations in 1991. The accrual
remaining reflects our best estimate of probable future costs.

Item 1(d) Financial
Information About Geographic Areas

.

The financial information
about geographic areas appearing under the heading “Operating Segments” in Note
15, located on pages 48 and 49 of the Annual Report, is incorporated
herein by reference.

Item 1(e) Available
Information

.

Our Internet address is www.ecolab.com.
Copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, are
available free of charge on our website at www.ecolab.com/investor as soon as
reasonably practicable after such material is filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission.

In addition, the
following governance materials are available on our website at
www.ecolab.com/investor/governance and the same information is available in
print to any requesting persons, free of charge, by writing to the Corporate
Secretary at our headquarters address, or by submitting an e-mail request to
investor.info@ecolab.com:  (i)  charters
of the Audit, Compensation, Finance and Governance Committees of our Board of
Directors; (ii) our Board’s Corporate Governance Principles; and (iii) our
Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Officers and Finance Associates.

Executive Officers of the
Company

The persons listed in the
following table are our current executive officers. Officers are elected
annually. There is no family relationship among any of the directors or
executive officers, and, except as noted, no executive officer has been
involved during the past five years in any legal proceedings described in
applicable Securities and Exchange Commission regulations.



(1).

Prior to
joining Ecolab in September 2004, Mr. Gifford served as Vice
President, World Logistics and Program Manager of Hewlett Packard Corporation
for three years. Prior to Hewlett Packard, Mr. Gifford was employed by
Compaq and Tandem.

(2).

Prior to
joining Ecolab in August 2003, Mr. Handley was employed by the
Procter & Gamble Company for 22 years in various management, marketing
and executive positions including assignments in Japan and Mexico. Mr. Handley’s
last position at P&G was Vice President - Feminine Care Strategic Planning.


(3).

Mr. Mason
re-joined Ecolab in May 2004, where he formerly served 23 years in various
management and executive positions, most recently as Vice President – Asia
Pacific. Prior to re-joining Ecolab, Mr. Mason was employed by HAVI Group,
LP, serving as President, HPR Partners from 1997-2004.

(4).

From April 1998
to April 2000, Mr. Miller served as Senior Vice President and General
Manager, The Minute Maid Co. (a subsidiary of The Coca Cola Company). In May 2000,
Mr. Miller was hired as President and CEO of Busy Body, Inc., a
privately held retailer of home fitness equipment in the western U.S., to
remedy operations that were underperforming the owners’ expectations. Busy Body, Inc.
filed for Chapter 11 protection under federal bankruptcy laws in May 2001
and was subsequently liquidated. Mr. Miller re-joined the Company in October 2001.

(5).

Prior to
joining Ecolab in March 2003, Ms. Nestegard was employed by 3M
Company for 20 years, most recently as Business Director of Optical Components.
Ms. Nestegard’s experience includes product and process development and
technical management as Director Engineering Systems Technology Center and as
Technical Director of the Electronic Products Division of 3M in Austin, Texas.

(6).

Prior to
joining Ecolab in September 2003, Mr. Tabb held various executive
positions in the systems technology industry, most recently with Focus IT
Group, a consulting firm. From 1997 – 2000 Mr. Tabb was employed by CNF
Transportation, Inc. as Vice President and Chief Information Officer. From
2000 – 2001 Mr. Tabb served as Vice President, Global Information
Technology at Nike, Inc.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

.

We identify below for investors important factors which could affect
our financial performance and could cause our actual results for future periods
to differ materially from our anticipated results or other expectations,
including those expressed in any forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K.
See the section entitled Forward-Looking Statements located on page 2
of this Form 10-K. Also, we may refer to this disclosure to identify
risk factors that may cause results to differ from those expressed in
other forward-looking statements made in oral presentations, including
telephone conferences and/or webcasts open to the public. Risk factors relating
to our protection of the environment are located under Item 1(c) of this Form 10-K
under the heading “Environmental and Regulatory Considerations,” and are
incorporated herein by reference.

Risks and uncertainties that may affect our operating results and
business performance include:

•

the vitality of the
foodservice, hospitality, travel, health care and food processing industries;

•

restraints on pricing
flexibility due to competitive factors, customer or vendor consolidations, and
existing contractual obligations;

•

changes in oil or raw
material prices or unavailability of adequate and reasonably priced raw
materials or substitutes therefore;

•

the occurrence of
capacity constraints or the loss of a key supplier or the inability to obtain
or renew supply agreements on favorable terms;

•

the effect of future
acquisitions or divestitures or other corporate transactions;

•

our ability to achieve
plans for past acquisitions;

•

the costs and effects
of complying with: (i) laws and regulations relating to the environment
and to the manufacture, storage, distribution, efficacy and labeling of our
products, and (ii) changes in tax, fiscal, governmental and other
regulatory policies;

•

economic factors such
as the worldwide economy, interest rates and currency movements including, in
particular, our exposure to foreign currency risk;

•

the occurrence of (a) litigation
or claims, (b) the loss or insolvency of a major customer or distributor, (c) war
(including acts of terrorism or hostilities which impact our markets), (d) natural
or manmade disasters, or (e) severe weather conditions or public health
epidemics affecting the foodservice, hospitality and travel industries;

•

loss of, or changes
in, executive management;

•

our ability to
continue product introductions or reformulations and technological innovations;
and

•

other uncertainties or
risks reported from time to time in our reports to the Securities and Exchange
Commission.


In addition, we note that our stock price can be affected by
fluctuations in quarterly earnings. There can be no assurance that our earnings
levels will meet investors’ expectations.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff
Comments

.

We have no unresolved
comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Item 2. Properties

.

Our manufacturing
philosophy is to manufacture products wherever an economic, process or quality
assurance advantage exists or where proprietary manufacturing techniques
dictate internal production processes. Currently, most products sold by us are
manufactured at our facilities.

Our manufacturing
facilities produce chemical products or equipment for all of our businesses,
although the businesses constituting the United States Other Services segment
purchase the majority of their products and equipment from outside suppliers. Our
chemical production process consists primarily of blending and packaging
powders and liquids and casting solids. Our equipment manufacturing operations
consist primarily of producing chemical product dispensers and injectors and
other mechanical equipment and dishwasher racks and related sundries.

The following chart
profiles our main manufacturing facilities with ongoing production activities. In
general, manufacturing facilities located in the United States serve the “United
States Cleaning & Sanitizing” segment and facilities located outside
of the United States serve the “International” segment. However, certain of the
United States facilities do manufacture products for export and which are used
by the International segment. The facilities having export involvement are
marked with an asterisk(*).

ECOLAB OPERATIONS
PLANT PROFILES



We believe our
manufacturing facilities are in good condition and are adequate to meet our
existing production needs, except that new manufacturing facilities in Brazil
and China are being constructed to support continued growth in these countries.

Most of our manufacturing
plants also serve as distribution centers. In addition, around the world, we
operate distribution centers, all of which are leased, and utilize various
public warehouses to facilitate the distribution of our products and services. In
the United States, our sales and service associates are located in
approximately 90 leased offices. Additional sales offices are located
internationally.

Our corporate
headquarters is comprised of three adjacent multi-storied buildings located in
downtown St. Paul, Minnesota. The main 19-story building was constructed to our
specifications and is leased through 2008. Thereafter, it is subject to
multiple renewals at our option. The second building is leased through 2011
with additional options available. The third building is owned. The corporate
headquarters includes an employee training center. In April 2004, we purchased
a 90 acre campus in Eagan, Minnesota to provide for future growth. The acquired
facility houses the research and development and data center requirements as
well as several of our administrative functions. Renovations of the buildings
on this property, comprising approximately 500,000 square feet, have been
completed and more than 800 associates now work at this site. Our former
research center in Mendota Heights, Minnesota and the data center in St. Paul
were sold in 2005.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings

.

Proceedings arising under
laws relating to protection of the environment are discussed at Item 1(c) above,
under the heading “Environmental and Regulatory Considerations.”

The Company and certain of our subsidiaries are defendants in various
lawsuits and claims arising out of the normal course of business. Accruals have
been established reflecting our best estimate of probable future costs relating
to such matters.

The estimated effects of the future results of existing litigation is
subject to certain estimates, assumptions and uncertainties and should be
considered in light of the discussion of Risk Factors found under Item 1A of
this Form 10-K.

Item 4. Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

.

No matters were submitted
to a vote of our security holders during the fourth quarter of 2005.

PART II

Item 5. Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

.

Market Information

:  Our Common Stock is listed on the New York
Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange, Inc. under the symbol “ECL.”  The Common Stock is also traded on an
unlisted basis on certain other United States exchanges. The high and low sales
prices of our Common Stock on the consolidated transaction reporting system
during 2005 and 2004 were as follows:


The closing Common Stock
price on February 21, 2006 was $35.92.

Holders

:  On February 21, 2006, we had 5,185
holders of Common Stock of record.

Dividends

:  We have paid Common Stock dividends for 69
consecutive years. Quarterly cash dividends of $0.08 per share were declared in
February, May and August 2004. Cash dividends of $0.0875 per share
were declared in December 2004, and February, May and August 2005.
A dividend of $0.10 per share was declared in December 2005.

Item 5(c) Purchases
of Equity Securities by the Issuer

.

(1)

Includes brokerage commissions paid, plus the
value of 60,248 shares reacquired
from employees and/or directors as swaps for the cost of stock options, or
shares surrendered to satisfy minimum statutory tax obligations, under our stock
incentive plans.

(2)

On October 17, 2003 our Board of
Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10,000,000 shares of Common Stock.
This authorization was concluded during the quarter ended December 31,
2005. On December 9, 2004, our Board of Directors authorized the
repurchase of up to 10,000,000 additional shares of Common Stock, including
shares to be repurchased under Rule 10b5-1. We intend to repurchase all
shares under this authorization, for which no expiration date has been
established, in open market or privately negotiated transactions, subject to
market conditions.

Item 6. Selected
Financial Data

.

The comparative data for
the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 inclusive,
which are set forth under the heading entitled “Summary Operating and Financial
Data” located on pages 52 and 53 of the Annual Report, are incorporated
herein by reference.


Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation

.

The material appearing under the heading entitled “Financial
Discussion,” located on pages 21 through 30 of the Annual Report, is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7A. Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

.

The material appearing
under the heading entitled “Market Risk,” located on page 30 of the Annual
Report, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

.

The financial statements
and material which are an integral part of the financial statements listed
under Item 15.I(1). below and located on pages 31 through 51 of the Annual
Report, are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

.

None.

Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures

.

Disclosure Controls and
Procedures:

As of December 31,
2005, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the
participation of our management, including the President and Chief Executive
Officer and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and
procedures. Based upon that evaluation, our President and Chief Executive
Officer and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer concluded
that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective, among other things,
in timely alerting them to material information relating to the company
(including its consolidated subsidiaries) that is required to be included in
our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Internal Control Over Financial Reporting:

Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control
over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with the participation of
our management, including our President and Chief Executive Officer and
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation
of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on
the framework in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on our evaluation under this framework, our management concluded that our
internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2005.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005 has been
audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm. PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has issued an attestation report on
our controls over financial reporting. Their report can be found in our Annual
Report, the relevant portion of which has been filed as Exhibit (13) to
this Form 10-K and is incorporated into Item 8 hereof.


During the period October 1 - December 31,
2005, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our
internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other
Information

.

The following disclosures would otherwise be filed on Form 8-K
under the heading “Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.”

In the paragraphs below describing our executive
compensation and non-employee director plans and programs, the “Named Executive
Officers or NEOs” refer to our Chief Executive Officer during 2005 and the next
four most-highly compensated executive officers who were serving in those
capacities at December 31, 2005, and the “Committee” refers to the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.

General:

The components of the overall compensation program
for the Company’s executive officers include base salary, long-term incentives
in the form of annual stock option awards, cash-based annual bonus
incentives, participation in deferred compensation and retirement plans, and
certain perquisites. A summary of the executive compensation program is filed
as Exhibit (10)U to this report and is hereby incorporated by reference.

Base Salary:

For the 2006 fiscal year, base salaries for
corporate officers, including the NEOs other than the CEO, are scheduled to
increase by an average of 4.9%. The salary of the CEO has been established at
$800,000, representing an increase of $100,000 since it was last adjusted in July 2004.
Competitive market data is available for all of the executive positions. Salaries
are monitored to ensure that the appropriate balance of internal value and
external competitiveness is maintained. The base salaries established for the
2006 fiscal year for the NEOs are included as a part of the Named
Executive Officer Salary, Stock Options and Bonus Table (the “NEO Table”) filed
as Exhibit (10)T to this Form 10-K and incorporated by reference
herein.

Long-Term Incentive Awards:

For the 2006 fiscal year, long-term incentive
stock options were granted to the corporate officers, including the NEOs other
than the CEO, for an aggregate of 694,600 shares.  The CEO received a grant for 303,000 shares. Individual
stock incentive grant guidelines are established for each such officer based on
market competitive values. Guidelines were developed on a position-by-position
basis using market data from the Towers Perrin Single Regression and Long-Term
Incentive surveys for general industry companies. The market data represents
median long-term incentive values adjusted for size based on revenue. The
guidelines were reviewed and approved by the Committee’s independent
consultant, Frederic W. Cook & Co. The stock options granted for the
2006 fiscal year for the NEOs are included in the NEO Table and incorporated by
reference herein. The options were granted in December 2005 pursuant to a form of
agreement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and
were timely reported to the SEC on Forms 4.

Bonuses:

On February 24, 2006, the Committee
authorized the payment of annual incentive awards (“bonuses”) under our
Management Incentive Plan (“MIP”) and Management Performance Incentive Plan (“MPIP”)
with respect to fiscal 2005 performance. The MIP is a cash-based annual
incentive


plan that focuses executives’ attention on achieving
competitive annual business goals. For fiscal 2005, performance goals were
based principally on diluted earnings per share and business unit operating
income and revenue goals, with the relative weighting of these goals varying by
executive position. Target award opportunities during 2005 for corporate
officers, including the NEOs other than the CEO, ranged from 35% to 55% of base
salary, with threshold and maximum award opportunities at 40% and 200% of
target opportunities, respectively. Based on overall Company, business unit and
individual performance for the most recent fiscal year, actual award payments
for such corporate officers were $3,753,700 in the aggregate and ranged
individually from 108% to 180% of target opportunities.

The MPIP is a stockholder approved plan that is similar
to the MIP, except that it is intended to qualify for the performance-based
exception to the $1,000,000 deduction limitation under Section 162(m) of
the Internal Revenue Code. For fiscal 2005, the Committee selected the CEO and
one other executive officer as participants in the MPIP and established a
maximum award payment opportunity equal to 300% of each participant’s base
salary (subject to a limit of $3,000,000) based on the attainment of
pre-established diluted earnings per share goals. The Committee, working with
management and the Company’s independent compensation consultants, also set
performance goals for the Company which are in addition to the MPIP performance
goals. The bonuses paid for the 2005 fiscal year for the NEOs under the MIP and
MPIP are included in the NEO Table and incorporated by reference herein.

The Company intends to provide additional information
regarding the compensation awarded to the Named Executive Officers in respect
of and during the year ended December 31, 2005 in the definitive proxy
statement for the Company’s 2006 annual meeting of stockholders, which is
expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or around March 31,
2006.

Establishment of 2006 Bonus Criteria:

On February 24,
2006, the Committee established the performance criteria for the MIP and the
MPIP for the Company’s fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006. Target
award opportunities under the MIP for corporate officers, including the NEOs
other than the Chief Executive Officer, will range from 35% to 60% of base
salary, with threshold and maximum award opportunities at 40% and 200% of
target opportunities, respectively. Sector heads and business unit general
managers will continue to have 30% of their performance measured on earnings
per share (“EPS”) performance and 70% on business unit objectives. The majority
of corporate staff officers will have 70% of their award based on total EPS and
30% on individual objectives.  The
Committee also selected the CEO as the sole participant for the MPIP for the
fiscal year ending on December 31, 2006. The performance goal for the
participant in the MPIP will be diluted EPS, with the maximum award payment
opportunity equal to 300% of the applicable participant’s base salary (subject
to the plan limit of $3 million) if the performance is achieved.

Non-Employee Director Compensation:

The components of
the overall compensation program for the Company’s non-employee directors
include an annual retainer, Committee Chair fees, deferred stock units, an
annual stock option grant, gift matching, travel insurance, and certain
director liability protection. A summary of the non-employee director
compensation program is filed as Exhibit (10)V to this Form 10-K and
is hereby incorporated by reference.


The
following disclosures would otherwise be filed on Form 8-K under the
headings “Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement and

Item 3.03. Material
Modification to Rights of Security Holders.”

On
February 24, 2006, the Board of Directors of Ecolab Inc. (the “Company” or
“Registrant”) approved the extension of the benefits afforded by the Company’s
existing shareholder rights agreement with Computershare Investor Services, LLC
(the “Rights Agent”), which will expire at the close of business (as defined
therein) on March 11, 2006 (the “Current Rights Agreement”), by adopting a
new shareholder rights agreement with the Rights Agent, dated as of February 24,
2006 (the “New Rights Agreement”). Under the Current Rights Agreement, the
close of business on a day that is not a business day is defined to be the
close of business on the next succeeding business day. Because March 11,
2006, falls on a Saturday, the Current Rights Agreement will expire at 5:00 p.m.
New York City time on March 13, 2006.

In
connection with the New Rights Agreement, on February 24, 2006, the Board
of Directors of the Registrant declared a dividend distribution of one right (a
“Right”) for each outstanding share of the Registrant’s common stock, $1.00 par
value per share (the “Common Stock”), to stockholders of record at the close of
business on March 13, 2006 (the “Record Date”). The Board of Directors of
the Registrant also authorized the issuance of one Right for each share of
Common Stock issued after the Record Date and prior to the earliest of the
Distribution Date (as defined below), the redemption of the Rights and the
expiration of the Rights and, in certain circumstances, after the Distribution
Date. Except as set forth below and subject to adjustment as provided in the
New Rights Agreement, each Right entitles the registered holder to purchase
from the Registrant one one-thousandth (1/1000

th

) of a share of Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock, without par value (the “Preferred Stock”),
at a purchase price of $135 per Right (the “Purchase Price”). The description
and terms of the Rights are set forth in the New Rights Agreement.

Upon
payment of the dividend at the close of business on the Record Date, the Rights
will be attached to all Common Stock certificates representing shares then
outstanding, and no separate Rights Certificates (as defined below) will be
distributed. The Rights will separate from the Common Stock upon the earliest
of (i) 10 business days following a public announcement that a person or
group (an “Acquiring Person”), together with persons affiliated or associated
with it, has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership
of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (the “Stock
Acquisition Date”), (ii) 10 business days (or such later date as the Board
of Directors of the Registrant shall determine) following the commencement of a
tender offer or exchange offer that would result in a person or group
beneficially owning 15% or more of such outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) 10
business days following a determination by the Board of Directors of the
Registrant that a person (an “Adverse Person”), alone or together with its
affiliates and associates, has become the beneficial owner of more than 10% of
the Common Stock and that (a) such beneficial ownership is intended to
cause the Registrant to repurchase the Common Stock beneficially owned by such
person or to cause pressure on the Registrant to take action or enter into
transactions intended to provide such person with short-term financial gain
under circumstances where the Board of Directors of the Registrant determines
that the best long-term interests of the Registrant would not be served by
taking such action or entering into such transactions at the time, or (b) such
beneficial ownership is causing or reasonably likely to cause a material
adverse impact on the business or prospects of the Registrant;

provided

,

however

, that the Board of Directors of the


Registrant
shall not declare any person to be an Adverse Person if such person has
reported or is required to report its ownership of Common Stock on Schedule 13G
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), or
on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act which Schedule 13D does not
state any intention to, or reserve the right to, control or influence the
Registrant or engage in certain other actions, so long as such person neither
reports nor is required to report such ownership other than as described in
this proviso (the earliest of such dates being called the “Distribution Date”).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, (x) Henkel KGaA (“Henkel”) shall not be an
Acquiring Person if, and so long as, the Second Amended and Restated
Stockholder’s Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001, between the
Registrant and Henkel (including any amendment thereto approved by the
Registrant’s Board of Directors) (the “Stockholder’s Agreement”), continues to
be binding on Henkel and Henkel is in compliance (as determined by the
Registrant’s Board of Directors in its discretion) with the terms of the
Stockholder’s Agreement, and (y) the Registrant shall not declare Henkel to be
an Adverse Person.

Until
the Distribution Date (or earlier redemption or expiration of the Rights), (i) the
Rights will be transferred with and only with the Common Stock (except in
connection with the redemption of the Rights), (ii) new Common Stock
certificates issued after the Record Date upon transfer, replacement or new
issuance of Common Stock will contain a notation incorporating the New Rights
Agreement by reference and (iii) the surrender for transfer of any certificates
for Common Stock outstanding will also constitute the transfer of the Rights
associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificates.

The
Rights will become first exercisable on the Distribution Date and will expire
at the close of business on March 10, 2016, unless such date is extended
or the Rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Registrant as described
below (the “Expiration Date”). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Rights will
not be exercisable after the occurrence of a Triggering Event (as defined
below) until the Registrant’s right of redemption has expired.

As
soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, separate certificates
evidencing the Rights (the “Rights Certificates”) will be mailed to holders of
record of the Common Stock as of the close of business on the Distribution Date
and, thereafter, such separate Rights Certificates alone will evidence the
Rights. Except for shares of Common Stock issued or sold after the Distribution
Date pursuant to the exercise of stock options or under any employee benefit
plan or arrangement granted or awarded prior to the Distribution Date, or the
exercise, conversion or exchange of securities issued by the Registrant, and
except as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors of the Registrant,
only shares of Common Stock issued prior to the Distribution Date will be
issued with Rights.

In the event that any
person shall become (a) an Acquiring Person (except (i) pursuant to
an offer for all outstanding shares of Common Stock which the independent
directors of the Registrant determine to be fair to and otherwise in the best
interest of the Registrant and its stockholders after receiving advice from one
or more investment banking firms (a “Qualifying Offer”) and (ii) for
certain persons who report their ownership on Schedule 13G under the
Exchange Act or on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act, provided that they
do not state any intention to, or reserve the right to, control or influence
the Registrant and such persons certify that they became an Acquiring Person
inadvertently and they agree that they will not acquire any additional shares
of Common Stock) or (b) an Adverse Person (either such event is referred
to herein as a “Triggering Event”), then the Rights will “flip-in” and entitle
each holder of a Right, except as provided below, to purchase, upon exercise at
the then-


current
Purchase Price, that number of shares of Common Stock having a market value of
two times such Purchase Price.

Any
Rights beneficially owned at any time on or after the earlier of the
Distribution Date and the Stock Acquisition Date by an Acquiring Person, an
Adverse Person or an affiliate or associate of an Acquiring Person or an
Adverse Person (whether or not such ownership is subsequently transferred) will
become null and void upon the occurrence of a Triggering Event, and any holder
of such Rights will have no right to exercise such Rights.

In
the event that, following a Triggering Event, the Registrant is acquired in a
merger or other business combination in which the Common Stock does not remain
outstanding or is changed (other than a merger consummated pursuant to a
Qualifying Offer) or 50% of the assets, cash flow or earning power of the
Registrant and its Subsidiaries (as defined in the New Rights Agreement) (taken
as a whole) is sold or otherwise transferred to any person (other than the Registrant
or any Subsidiary of the Registrant) in one transaction or a series of
related transactions, the Rights will “flip-over” and entitle each holder of a
Right, except as provided in the preceding paragraph, to purchase, upon the
exercise of the Right at the then-current Purchase Price, that number of shares
of common stock of the acquiring company (or, in certain circumstances, one of
its affiliates) which at the time of such transaction would have a market value
of two times such Purchase Price.

The
number of Rights associated with each share of Common Stock shall be
proportionately adjusted after the Record Date and prior to the Distribution
Date (or earlier redemption or expiration of the Rights) for any (i) declaration
of a dividend on the outstanding shares of Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, (ii) subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock,
or (iii) combination of the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a
smaller number of shares, such that the number of Rights thereafter associated
with each share of Common Stock following any such event shall equal the result
obtained by multiplying the number of Rights associated with each share of
Common Stock immediately prior to such event by a fraction, the numerator of
which shall be the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately prior to the occurrence of the event and the denominator of which
shall be the total number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately
following the occurrence of such event.

In
addition, the Purchase Price is subject to adjustment from time to time to
prevent dilution upon the (i) declaration of a dividend on the Preferred
Stock payable in shares of Preferred Stock, (ii) subdivision of the
outstanding Preferred Stock, (iii) combination of the outstanding
Preferred Stock into a smaller number of shares, (iv) issuance of any
shares of the Registrant’s capital stock in a reclassification of the Preferred
Stock (including any such reclassification in connection with a consolidation
or merger in which the Registrant is the continuing or surviving corporation), (v) grant
to holders of the Preferred Stock of certain rights, options, or warrants to
subscribe for Preferred Stock or securities convertible into Preferred Stock at
less than the current market price of the Preferred Stock or (vi) distribution
to holders of the Preferred Stock of cash (other than a regular quarterly cash
dividend out of the earnings or retained earnings of the Registrant), assets
(other than a dividend payable in Preferred Stock, but including any dividend
payable in stock other than Preferred Stock) or evidences of indebtedness, or
of subscription rights or warrants. With certain exceptions, no adjustment in
the Purchase Price will be required until cumulative adjustments require an
adjustment of at least 1% of the Purchase Price.


At
any time until the earlier of (i) 10 business days following the Stock
Acquisition Date and (ii) the Expiration Date, the Registrant may redeem
the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $.01 per Right. The
Registrant may, at its option, pay the redemption price in cash, shares of
Common Stock (based on the current market price of the Common Stock at the time
of redemption) or any other form of consideration deemed appropriate by
the Board of Directors of the Registrant. Immediately upon the action of the
Registrant’s Board of Directors ordering redemption of the Rights, the right to
exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights
will be to receive the applicable redemption price. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Board may not redeem any Rights following a determination
that any person is an Adverse Person.

After
a Triggering Event, at the election of the Board of Directors of the
Registrant, the outstanding Rights (other than those beneficially owned by an
Acquiring Person, Adverse Person or an affiliate or associate of an Acquiring
Person or Adverse Person) may be exchanged, in whole or in part, for
shares of Common Stock, or shares of preferred stock of the Registrant having
essentially the same value or economic rights as such shares. Immediately upon
the action of the Board of Directors of the Registrant authorizing any such exchange,
and without any further action or any notice, the Rights (other than Rights
which are not subject to such exchange) will terminate and such Rights will
only entitle holders to receive the shares issuable upon such exchange.

Until
a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no rights as a
stockholder of the Registrant, including, without limitation, the right to vote
or to receive dividends. While the distribution of the Rights will not be
taxable to stockholders or to the Registrant, stockholders may, depending upon
the circumstances, recognize taxable income in the event that the Rights become
exercisable for Common Stock (or other consideration) of the Registrant or for
common stock of the acquiring company as set forth above.

At
any time prior to the Distribution Date, the Registrant may, without the
approval of any holder of the Rights, supplement or amend any provision of the
New Rights Agreement. Thereafter, the New Rights Agreement may be amended
only (i) to cure ambiguities, (ii) to correct inconsistent
provisions, (iii) to shorten or lengthen any time period thereunder or (iv) in
ways that do not adversely affect the Rights holders (other than an Acquiring
Person or Adverse Person). From and after the Distribution Date, the New Rights
Agreement may not be amended to lengthen (A) a time period relating
to when the Rights may be redeemed at such time as the Rights are not then
redeemable, or (B) any other time period unless such lengthening is for
the purpose of protecting, enhancing or clarifying the rights of, and/or the
benefits to, the holders of Rights (other than an Acquiring Person or Adverse
Person.)

The
Rights have certain anti-takeover effects. The Rights will cause substantial
dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire the Registrant on terms
not approved by the Registrant’s Board of Directors. The Rights should not
interfere with any merger or other business combination approved by the Board
of Directors of the Registrant since the Board of Directors may, at its option,
at any time until 10 business days following the Stock Acquisition Date, redeem
all, but no less than all, of the then outstanding Rights at the applicable
redemption price.

The
foregoing summary description of the Rights does not purport to be complete and
is qualified in its entirety by reference to the New Rights Agreement and the
exhibits thereto (which include (i) Exhibit A – Form of
Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Junior


Participating
Preferred Stock and (ii) Exhibit B - Form of Rights
Certificate), a copy of which is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (4)C
to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

The following disclosures would otherwise be filed on Form 8-K
under the heading “Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or
Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.”

In connection with the upcoming expiration of the
Company’s Current Rights Agreement at the close of business on March 13,
2006, the Company filed on February 27, 2006, a Certificate of Elimination
of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company, to
become effective

at the
close of business on March 13, 2006
(the “Certificate of Elimination”), with the Delaware Secretary of State
pursuant to Section 151(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
The filing of the Certificate of Elimination was authorized by the Board of
Directors of the Company in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation
Law. The Certificate of Elimination has the effect of eliminating from the
Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation, dated as of May 9, 2003
(the “Current Restated Certificate of Incorporation”), all matters set forth in
the Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock of the Company governing such series, previously
filed by the Company with the Delaware Secretary of State on February 26,
1986, as subsequently amended from time to time (the “1986 Certificate of
Designation”). The 1,000,000 shares of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock of the Company reserved for issuance in
connection with the Current Rights Agreement under the 1986 Certificate of
Designation will resume their status as authorized but unissued shares of
preferred stock of the Company as of the effective date of the Certificate of
Elimination. A copy of the
Certificate of Elimination is attached hereto as Exhibit (3)B and is
incorporated herein by reference.

In
connection with the renewal of the Company’s Current Rights Agreement through
the adoption of the New Rights Agreement, on February 27, 2006, the
Company filed a Certificate of Designation, Preferences and Rights of Series A
Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company, to become effective after the close of business of March 13,
2006 (the “New Certificate of
Designation”), with the Delaware Secretary of State pursuant to Section 151(g) of
the Delaware General Corporation Law. The filing of the New Certificate of
Designation was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company in
accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law. The New
Certificate of Designation authorizes the creation of a new series of
400,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, without
par value, of the Company, to be reserved for issuance in connection with the
New Rights Agreement. A copy of the Certificate of Designation is attached
hereto as Exhibit (3)C and is incorporated herein by reference.

In light of the amendments to the Current Restated
Certificate of Incorporation to be implemented upon the effectiveness of the
filing of the Certificate of Elimination and the Certificate of Designation as
described above, on February 27, 2006, the Company also filed a Restated
Certificate of Incorporation, to become effective

March 13, 2006, after the effectiveness
of the Certificate of Elimination and the Certificate of Designation referred
to above (the “Restated Certificate of
Incorporation”), with the Delaware Secretary of State pursuant to Section 245
of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The Restated Certificate of
Incorporation only restates and integrates, and does not further amend, the
provisions of the Current Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as theretofore
amended and supplemented, and there is no discrepancy between the Current
Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as theretofore amended and supplemented,
and the Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The filing of the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation was authorized by the Board


of Directors of the Company in accordance with the
Delaware General Corporation Law. A copy of the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation is attached hereto as Exhibit (3)A

and is incorporated herein by reference.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant

.

The biographical material
regarding our directors and the paragraph relating to understandings concerning
the election of directors between Henkel KGaA and the Company located in the
Proxy Statement appearing under the heading entitled “Proposal to Elect
Directors,” is incorporated herein by reference. Information regarding
executive officers is presented under the heading “Executive Officers of the
Company” in Part I on pages 11 through 14 hereof.

The material appearing under the heading entitled “Board of Directors”
located in the Proxy Statement pertaining to the identity of Audit Committee
members and the designation of the “audit committee financial expert(s)” is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 11. Executive
Compensation

.

The material appearing under the heading entitled “Executive
Compensation” located in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference. However, pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation
S-K, Item 402(a)(9), the material appearing under the headings entitled “Report
of the Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation” and “Comparison of
Five Year Cumulative Total Return” located in the Proxy Statement is not incorporated
herein.

Item 12. Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters

.

The material appearing
under the headings entitled “Security Ownership” located in the Proxy Statement
is incorporated herein by reference. The holdings of Henkel KGaA and Henkel
Corporation are subject to certain limitations with respect to our voting
securities as more fully described in our Proxy Statement under the heading “Stockholder
Agreement,” which is incorporated herein by reference.

A total of 968,101 shares
of Common Stock held by our directors and executive officers, some of whom may be
deemed to be “affiliates” of the Company, have been excluded from the
computation of market value of our Common Stock on the cover page of this Form 10-K.
This total represents that portion of the shares reported as beneficially owned
by our directors and executive officers as of June 30, 2005, which are
actually issued and outstanding.


Equity Compensation Plan
Information:

The
following table presents, as of December 31, 2005, compensation plans
(including individual compensation arrangements) under which our equity
securities are authorized for issuance.

(1)

Includes 144,927 Common Stock equivalents
under our 2001 Non-Employee Director Stock Option and Deferred Compensation
Plan. These Common Stock equivalents represent deferred compensation earned by
non-employee directors and are excluded from the calculation of weighted
average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights in
column (b) of this table.

(2)

Includes 15,872 shares of our Common Stock
subject to stock options with a weighted-average exercise price of $27.52,
which we assumed in connection with our acquisition of Alcide Corporation
effective July 30, 2004. These assumed options are deemed exempt from
shareholder approval under Rule 303A.08 of the New York Stock Exchange in
accordance with our notice to the NYSE dated August 18, 2004. The
respective Alcide plans were amended to prohibit future grants.

Item 13. Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

.

The material appearing
under the heading entitled “Director Independence Standards and Determinations,”
located in the Proxy Statement pertaining to “Stockholder Agreement” and “Related
Party Transactions,” as well as the paragraph relating to understandings
concerning the election of directors between Henkel KGaA and the Company and
the biographical material pertaining to Messrs. Stefan Hamelmann, Ulrich
Lehner and Kasper Rorsted, both located in the Proxy Statement under the
heading “Proposal to Elect Directors,” are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14. Principal
Accounting Fees and Services

.

The material appearing
under the heading entitled “Audit Fees” located in the Proxy Statement is
incorporated herein by reference.


PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial
Statement Schedules

.









EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

Included in the preceding
list of exhibits are the following management contracts or compensatory plans
or arrangements:


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the
requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, Ecolab Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 24

th

day of February,
2006.

Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been
signed below by the following persons on behalf of Ecolab Inc. and in the capacities
indicated, on the 24

th

day of February 2006.


REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON FINANCIAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Shareholders and
Directors of Ecolab Inc.:

Our audits of the
consolidated financial statements, of management’s assessment of the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting and of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report which
contains an explanatory paragraph relating to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R,
“Share-Based Payment,” dated February 24, 2006 appearing in the 2005
Annual Report to Shareholders of Ecolab Inc. (which report and consolidated
financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K)
also included an audit of the financial statement schedule listed in Item
15.I(2).(i) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial
statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements.

/s/
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 24, 2006


CONSENT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We hereby consent to the
incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8
(Registration Nos. 2-60010; 2-74944; 33-1664; 33-41828; 2-90702; 33-18202; 33-55986;
33-56101; 333-95043; 333-109890; 33-26241; 33-34000; 33-56151; 333-18627; 333-109891;
33-39228; 33-56125; 333-70835; 33-60266; 333-95041; 33-65364; 333-18617;
333-79449; 333-40239; 333-95037; 333-50969; 333-58360; 333-97927; 333-115567;
333-115568; 333-129427; and 333-129428) of our report dated February 24,
2006 relating to the consolidated financial statements, management’s assessment
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting which appears in the
2005 Annual Report to Shareholders of Ecolab Inc., which is incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the
inclusion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of our report dated February 24,
2006 relating to the financial statement schedule of Ecolab Inc. which
appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers
  LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 28, 2006


SCHEDULE II – VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

ECOLAB INC.

(In Thousands)

(A)

Includes the effects of
changes in currency translation and business acquisitions.

(B)

Uncollectible accounts
charged off, net of recovery of accounts previously written off.

(C)

Includes an allowance
of approximately $5 million as of December 31, 2005 for the expected
return of products shipped, credits related to pricing or quantities shipped.
All of the returns and credit activity is recorded directly to accounts
receivable or sales.


EXHIBIT INDEX

The following documents
are filed as exhibits to this Report.