ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

General Dynamics is an aerospace and defense company
that offers a broad portfolio of products and services in business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; military and commercial shipbuilding; and communications and information technology. We and our subsidiaries employ 95,100
people globally. We foster a culture of ethical behavior and integrity that is evident in how we interact with shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, partners and the communities in which we operate.

We strive to deliver consistently superior shareholder returns. Our experienced management team creates shareholder value
through disciplined program execution, organic growth, margin improvement, efficient cash-flow conversion and prudent capital deployment. We seek to manage overhead costs, incentivize continuous-improvement initiatives and collaborate across our
businesses to enhance margins. Our balanced capital deployment approach involves internal investment, acquisitions and divestitures, dividends and the repurchase of company shares on the open market. As an experienced incumbent on multiple core
defense programs, our portfolio remains well-positioned. We also proactively pursue innovative product development in our core markets and new opportunities in adjacent markets.

Formed in 1952, General Dynamics grew organically and through acquisitions until the early 1990s, when we sold nearly all of
our divisions except Electric Boat and Land Systems. Starting in the mid-1990s, we began expanding by acquiring combat vehicle-related businesses, additional shipyards, information technology product and service companies and Gulfstream Aerospace
Corporation. Since, we have acquired and integrated over 60 businesses, including six in 2011, to further strengthen and complement our business portfolio.

General Dynamics is incorporated in Delaware. We operate through four business groups: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology. For selected financial information
regarding each of our business groups, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

AEROSPACE

Our Aerospace group designs, manufactures and outfits a comprehensive
family of large- and mid-cabin Gulfstream business-jet aircraft, provides aircraft services (including maintenance and repair work, fixed-based operations (FBO) and aircraft management services) and performs aircraft completions for aircraft
produced by other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). With more than 50 years of experience at the forefront of the business-jet aviation market, the Aerospace group is known for:



•superior aircraft design, quality, performance, safety and reliability;

•technologically advanced cockpit and cabin systems; and

•industry-leading product service and support.

The Gulfstream product line includes aircraft across a spectrum of price and performance options. The varying ranges, speeds
and cabin dimensions are well-suited to the transportation needs of an increasingly diverse and global customer base. The large-cabin models are manufactured at Gulfstream’s headquarters in Savannah, Georgia, while the mid-cabin models are
constructed by an Israeli supplier. All models are outfitted in the group’s U.S. facilities.







General Dynamics
Annual Report 2011                        3




The two newest aircraft to join the Gulfstream family are the
ultra-large-cabin, ultra-high-speed G650 and the super-mid-size G280. The G650 has the longest range, fastest speed, largest cabin and most advanced cockpit in the Gulfstream fleet and defines a completely new segment at the top of the business-jet
market. The G650 received Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) provisional type certification in the fourth quarter of 2011 with full type certification expected in mid-2012. The G280, which recently replaced the G200, offers a larger cabin and the
longest range at the fastest speed in its class. During flight testing, the G280 exceeded the original performance expectations announced at the program’s launch, including a 200-nautical-mile increase in range. The G280 has received Civil
Aviation Administration of Israel (CAAI) provisional type certification with full FAA type certification expected in mid-2012. The G650 and the G280 are scheduled to enter service following full type certification.

While the installed base of aircraft is predominantly in North America, international customers represent approximately 65
percent of the group’s backlog. Approximately 70 percent of the group’s orders in 2011 were from international customers, with significant growth in orders in the Asia-Pacific region. Private companies and individual customers collectively
represented approximately 60 percent of the group’s total orders. Gulfstream also remains a leading provider of aircraft for government and military service around the world, with aircraft operated by nearly 40 nations. These government
aircraft are used for head-of-state/executive transportation and a variety of special-mission applications, including aerial reconnaissance, maritime surveillance, weather research and astronaut training.

The Aerospace group remains committed to research and development (R&D). We continuously invest in R&D to introduce
new products and first-to-market enhancements that broaden customer choice, improve aircraft performance and set new standards for customer safety, comfort and in-flight productivity. Gulfstream’s aircraft are designed to minimize lifecycle
costs while maximizing the commonality of parts among the various models. Current product-enhancement and development efforts include initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, flight-control systems, acoustics, cabin technologies and enhanced
vision systems. Recent innovations include a state-of-the-art cabin management system for the G650, giving passengers control of the aircraft cabin systems through a handheld device that is synched to a particular seat on the aircraft. Each
passenger can easily control their own environment, including lighting, temperature and entertainment equipment. We also recently launched a PlaneBook application, an electronic document management system that provides pilots easy and immediate
access to critical flight information and aircraft-specific documents.

A $500 seven-year facilities expansion
project is underway at Gulfstream’s Savannah campus, including constructing new facilities, renovating existing infrastructure and expanding the group’s R&D center. This investment is designed to ensure Gulfstream is well-positioned to
meet future demand for business-jet aircraft and support services. This effort follows a recently completed $400 multi-year project in Savannah that established a purpose-built G650 manufacturing facility, increased aircraft-service capacity,
improved the group’s customer sales and design center and created a state-of-the-art paint facility.

In
addition to the increased service capacity in Savannah, Gulfstream’s service network continues to evolve to address the demands of the growing international installed base. In 2011, we continued to focus on increasing the group’s
international parts and materials inventory and adding personnel in fast-growing markets. In Asia, for example, Gulfstream opened a product support office in Hong Kong and a sales office in Beijing to support customers before, during and after their
aircraft purchase. We also expanded service facilities in Westfield, Massachusetts; Dallas, Texas; Luton, England; and Madrid, Spain. Gulfstream’s product support team deploys a team of aircraft technicians in support of urgent customer-service
requirements in the Americas and Europe. This commitment to superior product support continues to receive industry recognition, including the number-one ranking for the ninth consecutive year in the annual Aviation International News Product Support
Survey, as well as first-in-class product support recognition in the annual Professional Pilot survey.

We have
leveraged the acquisition of Jet Aviation, a maintenance and repair services provider with aircraft service centers in more than 20 locations worldwide, to provide customers first-in-class service and support 24 hours a day. As a trusted provider of
turnkey aircraft management and FBO services to a broad global customer base, Jet Aviation supports the continued growth and diversification of the Aerospace portfolio. Jet Aviation also performs aircraft completions for business jets and narrow-
and wide-body commercial aircraft produced by other OEMs at locations in Europe and the United States.

A market
leader in the business-aviation industry, the Aerospace group remains focused on:



•continuously investing in innovative first-to-market technologies and products,

•providing exemplary and timely service support to customers globally, and

•driving efficiencies and reducing costs in the aircraft production, outfitting and service processes.



4                        General
Dynamics Annual Report 2011




Revenues for the Aerospace group were 16 percent of our consolidated revenues
in 2009 and 2010 and 19 percent in 2011. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920102011Aircraft manufacturing, outfitting and completions$3,893$3,869$4,400Aircraft services1,1541,3231,521Pre-owned aircraft12410777Total Aerospace$5,171$5,299$5,998

COMBAT SYSTEMS

Our Combat Systems group is a global leader in the design, development, production, support and enhancement of tracked and wheeled military vehicles, weapons systems and munitions for the United States and
its allies. The group’s product lines include:



•wheeled combat and tactical vehicles,

•main battle tanks and tracked infantry vehicles,

•munitions and propellant,

•rockets and gun systems,

•axle and drivetrain components and aftermarket parts, and

•support and sustainment services.

We have a mature and diverse portfolio of franchise products that deliver core capabilities to domestic and international customers across the military-vehicle, weapons-system and munitions markets. These
long-term production programs enable us to pursue continuous process improvements and other cost reduction initiatives that drive the group’s financial performance. We apply our design and engineering expertise to develop product enhancements
that advance the utility, safety and effectiveness of our products, while identifying and positioning for new opportunities.

Our portfolio of vehicle platforms consists of wheeled tactical and combat vehicles and main battle tanks, including the Stryker wheeled combat vehicle, the Abrams main battle tank and the Mine-Resistant,
Ambush-Protected (MRAP) class of tactical vehicles. These vehicles are fundamental to the military’s warfighting capabilities and offer continuing opportunities for upgrades and modernization to meet evolving requirements.

The Stryker has proven itself as a versatile combat vehicle, supporting numerous missions with 10 variants. In addition to
ongoing production of these vehicles, we continue to work to ensure the Stryker remains relevant, affordable and capable of operating in a dynamic threat environment. For example, the group recently developed a double-V-hulled Stryker vehicle
designed to further enhance protection of the crew from improvised explosive devices (IEDs). Moving from concept to delivery in just 14 months, more than 320 double-V-hulled vehicles have been delivered. As a result of its successful fielding in
Afghanistan, we received orders for production of nearly 300 additional double-V-hulled vehicles in 2011. Also, there is potential for double-V-hull conversions of previously delivered Stryker vehicles and additional new production.

We continue to support the Army’s evolving needs for main battle tanks with technology upgrades to the Abrams, such as
the System Enhancement Package (SEP). The SEP-configured tank is a digital platform with an enhanced command-and-control system, second-generation thermal sights and improved armor. We are also engaged in development efforts that can provide
additional upgrade opportunities while increasing the efficiency and capability of the tank, which is planned to be a core Army platform for many decades.

Beyond these long-term platform programs, we have opportunities associated with the refurbishment of battle-damaged vehicles, the replacement of equipment that has reached the end of its service life and the
replenishment of ammunition and other supplies for the U.S. armed forces. As the sole provider of Abrams tanks and Stryker vehicles, Combat Systems is the primary contractor for the maintenance, repair and reset of these vehicles.

We expanded the group’s vehicle offerings through the recent acquisition of Force Protection, Inc., adding the Buffalo
route clearance and the versatile Cougar vehicles to our portfolio. These vehicles are at the forefront of blast- and ballistic-protected technologies and are designed to protect their occupants from landmines, hostile fire and IEDs. In addition to
the more than 4,500 RG-31 and Cougar vehicles delivered to the U.S. military under the MRAP program, the group also provides Cougar, Buffalo and Ocelot vehicles to foreign customers including the U.K. Ministry of Defence. This large installed base
has led to subsequent modernization programs, as well as support and sustainment services.

Complementing these
combat-vehicle offerings are Combat Systems’ weapons-systems and munitions programs. For ground forces, the group manufactures vehicle armor, M2 heavy machine guns and MK19 and MK47 grenade launchers. For airborne platforms, Combat Systems
produces weapons for many foreign customers and for all U.S. fighter aircraft, including high-speed Gatling guns for fixed-wing aircraft and the Hydra-70 family of rockets. We are also a global manufacturer and supplier of composite aircraft and
ground equipment components and highly engineered axles, suspensions, brakes and aftermarket parts for heavy-payload vehicles for a variety of military and commercial customers.



General Dynamics
Annual Report 2011                        5




The group holds leading munitions supply positions for products such as:



•the 120mm mortar and the 155mm and 105mm artillery projectile for the U.S. government,

•conventional bomb structures for the U.S. government,

•mortar systems and large-caliber ammunition for the Canadian Department of National Defence, and

•military propellant for the North American market.

With the expertise from our incumbency on current production programs, we are well-positioned to participate in future U.S.
vehicle development programs. In 2011, we were awarded one of two contracts to compete for the preliminary design and development of the Army’s next-generation armored personnel carrier, the Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV). The group also intends
to leverage its unique experience developing expeditionary vehicles to address the U.S. Marine Corps’ evolving approach to its amphibious-assault requirements. There are several new light vehicle opportunities in the domestic and international
markets, including the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV) program, which is intended to replace a portion of the U.S. fleet of High Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled Vehicles (HMMWV). Additionally, the group’s Robotic Systems business is a leader
in tactical autonomous robotics and the command and control technology that manages autonomous systems.

Combat
Systems has a significant presence internationally and is a recognized military-vehicle integrator and leading defense-materiel provider worldwide. The group has manufacturing facilities in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Spain
and Switzerland. These operations are a key part of the defense industrial base of their home countries and have an extended customer base in more than 30 countries. The group’s European operations offers a broad range of products, including
light- and medium-weight tracked and wheeled tactical vehicles, amphibious bridge systems, artillery systems, light weapons, ammunition and propellants. Key platforms include the Leopard tank and the Pizarro tracked infantry vehicle; the EAGLE
wheeled vehicle; and the Piranha and Pandur wheeled armored vehicles, which the group produces for several European, Middle Eastern and other international customers.

As a result of the demonstrated success of our fielded products, we have experienced continued international demand. The
group’s U.S. export activities include Abrams tanks and Light Armored Vehicles (LAVs) for U.S. allies in the Middle East. The group also is manufacturing tracked combat vehicle hulls for the Israeli Ministry of Defense, with deliveries
scheduled to begin in 2012. Combat Systems leverages the customer relationships developed through its in-country operations around the world. For example, Combat Systems received a contract in 2011 from the Canadian government to modernize 550 LAV
III combat vehicles at its London, Ontario, and Edmonton, Alberta, facilities, in addition to an existing contract to provide long-term support to all Canadian LAV vehicles. We will also co-produce the Specialist Vehicle for the U.K. Ministry of
Defence with the United Kingdom operations of the company’s Information Systems and Technology group. Additionally, deliveries began in 2011 of a variant of the Ocelot armored vehicle for the United Kingdom under the Light Protected Patrol
Vehicle program.

The Combat Systems group continues to emphasize operational execution and business optimization
initiatives to drive cost reductions as the group delivers on its backlog. Efforts undertaken in 2011 include the relocation of our European defense business headquarters to Madrid, Spain, and the consolidation of our guns and weapons businesses to
align with anticipated demand, ensuring that we are competitively positioned for the future. In an environment of dynamic threats and evolving customer needs, the group remains focused on innovation, affordability and speed-to-market to secure new
opportunities.

Revenues for the Combat Systems group were 30 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009 and 27
percent in 2010 and 2011. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920102011Wheeled combat vehicles$4,040$3,961$4,220Munitions and propellant1,3061,3591,314Tanks and tracked vehicles1,6701,5671,159Rockets and gun systems676728740Engineering and development1,026408397Drivetrain components and other927855997Total Combat Systems$9,645$8,878$8,827

MARINE SYSTEMS

Our Marine Systems group designs, builds and supports submarines and surface ships. We are one of two primary shipbuilders for the U.S. Navy. The group’s diverse portfolio of platforms and capabilities
includes:



•nuclear-powered submarines (Virginia Class),

•surface combatants (DDG-51 and DDG-1000),

•auxiliary and combat-logistics ships (T-AKE and MLP),

•commercial ships (Jones Act ships),

•design and engineering support (SSBN(X)), and

•overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services.

The substantial majority of Marine Systems’ workload supports the U.S. Navy. These efforts include the construction of
new ships and the design and development of next-generation platforms to help the Navy meet evolving missions and maintain its desired fleet size. The group also provides maintenance, repair and modernization services to help maximize the life and
effectiveness of in-service ships and maintain their relevance to the Navy’s current requirements. This business consists primarily of major ship-construction programs awarded under large, multi-ship



6                        General
Dynamics Annual Report 2011




contracts that span several years. The group’s current Navy construction programs are the fast-attack Virginia-class nuclear-powered submarine, the Arleigh Burke-class (DDG-51) and
Zumwalt-class (DDG-1000) guided-missile destroyers, and the Lewis and Clark-class (T-AKE) combat-logistics and Mobile Landing Platform (MLP) auxiliary support ships.

The Virginia-class submarine is the first U.S. submarine designed to address post-Cold War threats, including capabilities
tailored for open-ocean and littoral missions. These stealthy boats are well-suited for a variety of global assignments, including intelligence gathering, special-operations missions and sea-based missile launch. The Virginia-class program includes
30 submarines, which the customer is procuring in multi-ship blocks. The group has delivered eight of 18 boats under contract in conjunction with an industry partner that shares in the construction of these vessels. The ninth boat in the class is
expected to be delivered in the first quarter of 2012 in a record 62 months, three months faster than any of the previous boats in the program and an entire year earlier than original delivery projections. The remaining 10 boats under contract
extend deliveries through 2018. Plans published by the Navy include a request for proposals in 2012 for nine submarines under a fourth block of the program. As a result of U.S. combatant-commander requirements for the versatile capabilities of the
Virginia-class submarine, strong customer and congressional support, innovative cost-saving efforts and successful program performance, the group started construction of two submarines per year beginning in 2011.

We are the lead designer and producer of DDG-51s, the only active destroyer in the Navy’s global
surface fleet. DDG-51s are multi-mission combatants that offer defense against a wide range of threats, including ballistic missiles. In 2011, we delivered the 33rdof 34 DDG-51 ships under the Navy’s legacy multi-ship contract. The remaining ship is scheduled for delivery in
2012. The group is also the lead DDG-51 design and planning shipyard, managing the design, modernization and lifecycle support of these ships. In the third quarter of 2011, in connection with the Navy’s restart of the DDG-51 program, the group
was awarded a construction contract for a DDG-51 destroyer scheduled for delivery in 2016 and won a competitively awarded option for an additional destroyer.

In 2011, the group completed the detailed design of the next-generation guided-missile destroyer, the DDG-1000, and is building the first of the three ships in the class. In 2011, the group received an award
for its portion of the construction of the second and third ships in the program. While the group is responsible for much of the construction of the ship, significant components will be manufactured by others and supplied as government-furnished
material for integration into the destroyer. Delivery of the ships is scheduled for 2014, 2015 and 2018.

The group’s T-AKE combat-logistics ship supports multiple missions for the Navy, including replenishment at sea for U.S. and NATO operating forces around the world. T-AKE is the first Navy ship to
incorporate proven commercial marine technologies like integrated electric-drive propulsion. These technologies are designed to minimize T-AKE operations and maintenance costs over an expected 40-year life. The group has delivered 12 ships under the
14-ship program, including two in 2011. Work is underway on the remaining two ships, which are scheduled for delivery in 2012. Over the course of the program, the group has reduced the hours required to build a single ship by more than 60 percent,
completing construction of the 12thship in half the scheduled
time required to build the first.

In 2011, the group was awarded contracts for construction of the first two
ships in the MLP program and long-lead funding for the third ship. Construction of the first ship commenced in 2011, with delivery scheduled in 2013. The MLP is an auxiliary support ship intended to serve as a floating transfer station, improving
the Navy’s ability to deliver equipment and cargo to areas without adequate port access.

The group is also
developing new technologies and naval platforms. These design and engineering efforts include initial concept studies for the development of the next-generation ballistic-missile submarine (SSBN(X)), which is expected to replace the current Ohio
Class of ballistic missile submarines. The group is participating in the design of the SSBN Common Missile Compartment under development for the U.S. Navy and the Royal Navy of the United Kingdom with significant contract awards received in 2011 to
continue this development.

In addition to these design and construction programs, Marine Systems provides
comprehensive ship and submarine overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services to extend the service life of these vessels and maximize the value of these ships to the customer. We operate the only full-service maintenance and repair shipyard on
the West Coast. In 2011, the group acquired Metro Machine Corp., a surface-ship repair operation located in Norfolk, Virginia, enhancing our ability to deliver maintenance and repair services to the Atlantic and Pacific fleets. We also provide
allied navies with program management, planning, engineering and design support for submarine and surface-ship construction programs.

Marine Systems has the proven capability to design and produce ships for commercial customers to meet the Jones Act requirement that ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports be built in U.S. shipyards. For
example, in 2010 the group delivered the final ship in a five-ship commercial product-carrier program. Given the success of this program, the age of the fleet of Jones Act ships and environmental regulations that require double-hull tankers and
impose emission control limits, we anticipate additional commercial shipbuilding opportunities.

To further the
group’s goals of efficiency, affordability for the customer and continuous improvement, we make strategic investments in our business, often in cooperation with the Navy and local governments. In addition, Marine Systems leverages its design
and engineering expertise across its shipyards to improve program execution and generate cost savings. This knowledge sharing enables the group to use resources more efficiently and drive process improvements. We are well-positioned to fulfill the
ship-construction and support requirements of our Navy and commercial customers.



General Dynamics
Annual Report 2011                        7




Revenues for the Marine Systems group were 20 percent of our consolidated
revenues in 2009, 21 percent in 2010 and 20 percent in 2011. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920102011Nuclear-powered submarines$3,173$3,587$3,696Surface combatants1,2781,3601,191Auxiliary and commercial ships1,179961930Repair and other services733769814Total Marine Systems$6,363$6,677$6,631

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

Our Information Systems and Technology group provides critical technologies, products and services that support a wide range of government and commercial communication and information-sharing needs. The
group consists of a three-part portfolio centered on tactical communication systems, information technology and related services and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems.

Tactical communication systems– We design, manufacture and deliver secure communications systems,
command-and-control systems and operational hardware to customers within the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community and federal civilian agencies, and to international customers. Our leadership in this market results from
decades of domain expertise with legacy systems, incumbency on today’s programs and continuous innovation that encompasses key technologies at the center of our customers’ missions. The group’s solutions include:



•ruggedized mobile computing solutions with embedded wireless capability;

•information assurance and encryption technologies, products, systems and services that ensure the security and integrity of digital communications
worldwide;

•battlespace command-and-control systems;

•digital switching, broadband networking and automated network management; and

•fixed and mobile radio and satellite communications systems and antenna technologies.

This market is characterized by programs that enhance the warfighter’s ability to communicate, collaborate and access
vital information through high-bandwidth, on-the-move Internet-like battlefield networks. Key programs include the U.S. Army’s Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T) and the Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS).

WIN-T is the Army’s primary battlefield communications network. As the prime contractor, we are responsible for the
design, engineering, integration, production, program management and support of the network. Using ground and satellite communications links, WIN-T provides commanders with the digital communications services they need to access intelligence
information, collaborate with other military elements, issue orders and monitor their forces. We have deployed the first increment of WIN-T to more than 90 percent of the U.S. Army. The second increment of WIN-T, which adds on-the-move command and
control and other capabilities, is in low-rate initial production. The third increment will provide enhanced network reliability, increased capacity and smaller, more-tightly integrated communications and networking gear.

The JTRS program will provide communications among all U.S. military branches on multi-channel, software-defined radios. We
are developing the JTRS Handheld, Manpack, Small Form Fit (HMS) network radios to connect individual soldiers, sensors and robotic platforms. These small radios have secure, mobile voice, video and data communications capabilities that are similar
to those available through commercial cellular networks. The JTRS HMS radios are the first ground-domain radios fielded by the U.S. military that meet the full suite of JTRS requirements. The Army authorized low-rate production of over 6,000 radios
in 2011, and initial Army plans call for purchasing more than 240,000 HMS radios.

Information Systems and
Technology delivers similar modern communications and information-sharing benefits to many federal civilian customers, including the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. For example, we are the prime contractor for the U.S. Coast Guard’s
Rescue 21 system, an enhanced command, control and communications system used to monitor distress calls along nearly 40,000 miles of U.S. coastline and to coordinate search-and-rescue response. Additionally, for the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA), we are implementing a new ground-system architecture that improves the agency’s space-to-ground telecommunications and tracking coverage.

We provide many of these capabilities to non-U.S. customers, including the U.K. Ministry of Defence, the Canadian Department
of National Defence and public agencies and private companies in Europe and the Middle East. In 2010, for example, we were selected to provide the telecommunications and security systems for the Khalifa Port in the United Arab Emirates. The $100
project includes design, procurement, integration and installation of the port’s telecommunications, security and control systems, helping to make it among the most technologically advanced ports in the world once completed.

Information technology services– We provide mission-critical information technology (IT) and highly specialized
mission-support services to the U.S. defense and intelligence communities; the Departments of Homeland Security, Health and Human Services and other federal civilian agencies; and commercial and international customers. We specialize in:



•mission-operations simulation and training systems and services,

•large-scale data center consolidation and modernization,

•health information technology solutions and services, and

•secure wireless and wire-line networks and enterprise infrastructure.



8                        General
Dynamics Annual Report 2011




In this market, Information Systems and Technology has a long-standing
reputation for excellence in providing technical-support personnel and domain specialists, many of whom possess high-level clearances, to help customers execute their missions effectively. Frequently, our employees are the on-call staff that
provides technical support for commercial desktop technology and mission-specific hardware. For example, we operate approximately 20 security operations centers and 15 critical incident response teams. Our employees also develop, install and operate
mission systems on a daily basis.

Information Systems and Technology supplies network-modernization and IT
infrastructure services to U.S. government customers. We are deploying a turnkey IT network infrastructure for the new 1.7 million square-foot Mark Center facility, located in the Washington, D.C. region, where 6,400 employees from 11 DoD
organizations are relocating. We also will provide full enterprise support in relocating the Department of Homeland Security’s headquarters to the St. Elizabeths campus, including establishing a state-of-the-art IT infrastructure.

In addition, we are a leading provider of IT solutions that meet the fast-growing needs for technology modernization of
government and commercial healthcare organizations. In 2011, we acquired Vangent, Inc., which, combined with our existing health IT business, created a Tier 1-level business that meets the large-scale requirements of customers in this growing
market. The group’s combined offerings include data management, analytics, fraud prevention and detection software, decision support and process automation solutions. Programs include support for the Army’s military health IT mission by
providing accurate and timely information to medical staff in the field and at treatment facilities that helps ensure continuity of care for injured soldiers. For the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, we are supporting the
government’s implementation of healthcare reform and medical benefits programs by delivering an automated Medicare claim adjudication system that efficiently manages the large volume of medical and healthcare claims. We also provide critical
citizen services, including administration of the 1-800-MEDICARE contact line and several services that support U.S. student loan processing and administration.

Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems– We provide mission-related systems development, integration and operations support to customers in the U.S. defense, intelligence and
homeland security communities, and to U.S. allies. These offerings include:



•cyber security services and products;

•open-architecture mission systems;

•signals and information collection, processing and distribution systems;

•imagery solutions, sensors and cameras; and

•special-purpose computing.

Information Systems and Technology’s experience in securing and protecting government organizations from network attacks has resulted in a market-leading position in cyber security. We are the principal
support contractor for the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT), which provides defense against and response support to cyber attacks for U.S. executive branch agencies and information sharing and
collaboration with state and local government, industry and international partners. The group also uses its expertise to provide services to commercial victims of cyber attacks, including retail and financial services firms. Working closely with
federal law enforcement and regulatory agencies, we provide investigative and forensic expertise as well as network remediation services.

Information Systems and Technology has a 50-year legacy of providing advanced fire control systems for Navy submarine programs and currently is developing and integrating commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)
software and hardware upgrades to improve the tactical control capabilities for several submarine classes. This initiative leads the implementation of the Navy’s open architecture and open business model approach on submarines with a design
that emphasizes shared standards, providing greater interoperability, scalability and supplier independence. Capitalizing on this expertise and open architecture approach, we developed the combat and seaframe control systems for the Navy’s
Independence Class of Littoral Combat Ships (LCS) and it is the ship mission systems integrator on the Joint High Speed Vessel (JHSV) program for the Navy.

Opportunities in the group’s three principal markets continue to be driven by the expanding needs of our diverse customer base, including:



•the warfighter’s need for improved tactical communications and real-time intelligence;

•IT network and business system consolidation and modernization, and military and federal requirements for health IT services;

•the growing requirements for cyber security services among homeland security, defense, intelligence and commercial customers; and

•domestic and international homeland security, including border security and emergency response services.

Revenues for the Information Systems and Technology group were 34 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, 36 percent
in 2010 and 34 percent in 2011. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920102011Tactical communication systems$4,713$5,134$4,511Information technology services3,9204,2624,601Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems2,1692,2162,109Total Information Systems and Technology$10,802$11,612$11,221



General Dynamics
Annual Report 2011                        9




CUSTOMERS

In 2011, 69 percent of our revenues were from the U.S. government; 12 percent were from U.S. commercial customers; 9 percent were from international defense customers; and the remaining 10 percent were from
international commercial customers.

U.S. GOVERNMENT

Our primary customers are the DoD and the U.S. intelligence community. We also contract with other U.S. government customers, including the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Health and Human
Services, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and several first-responder agencies. Our revenues from the U.S. government were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920102011Department of Defense (DoD)$20,344$20,446$19,221Non-DoD1,8991,9412,212Foreign Military Sales*4788761,170Total U.S. government$22,721$23,263$22,603Percent of total revenues71%72%69%



*In addition to our direct international sales, we sell to foreign governments through the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program. Under the FMS program,
we contract with and are paid by the U.S. government and the U.S. government assumes the risk of collection from the foreign government customer.

We perform our U.S. government business under fixed-price, cost-reimbursement and time-and-materials contracts. Our
production contracts are primarily fixed-price. Under these contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed amount. Contracts for research, engineering, repair and maintenance and other services are typically cost-reimbursement
or time-and-materials. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, the customer reimburses contract costs and pays a fixed fee or an incentive- or award-based fee. These fees are determined by our ability to achieve targets set in the contract, such as
cost, quality, schedule and performance. Under time-and-materials contracts, the customer pays a fixed hourly rate for direct labor and reimburses us for material costs.

Fixed-price contracts accounted for approximately 55 percent of our U.S. government business in 2010 and 2011;
cost-reimbursement contracts accounted for approximately 39 percent in 2010 and 38 percent in 2011; and time-and-materials contracts accounted for approximately 6 percent in 2010 and 7 percent in 2011.

Each of these contract types presents advantages and disadvantages. Fixed-price contracts typically have higher fee levels as
we assume more risks, such as cost overruns. Therefore, these types of contracts offer additional profits if we can complete the work for less than the contract amount. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk. Accordingly,
the negotiated base fees are generally lower than on fixed-price contracts. Cost-reimbursement contracts also can include fee provisions that allow the customer to make additional payments when we satisfy certain performance criteria. However, not
all costs are reimbursed under these types of contracts and the government carefully reviews the costs we charge. Under time-and-materials contracts, our profit may vary if actual labor-hour costs vary significantly from the negotiated rates.
Additionally, because we often charge material costs with little or no fee, the content mix can impact the profit margins associated with these contracts.

U.S. COMMERCIAL

Our U.S. commercial revenues were $3.3 billion in 2009, $3.2
billion in 2010 and $3.8 billion in 2011. This represented approximately 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009 and 2010 and 12 percent in 2011. The majority of these revenues are for business-jet aircraft where our customer base consists
of individuals and public and privately held companies representing a wide range of industries. Other commercial products include drivetrain components and aftermarket parts in our Combat Systems group, Jones Act ships in our Marine Systems group
and a variety of products and services in our Information Systems and Technology group.

INTERNATIONAL

Our direct revenues from government and commercial customers outside the United States were $6 billion in 2009 and 2010 and $6.3 billion in
2011. This represented approximately 19 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, 18 percent in 2010 and 19 percent in 2011.

We conduct business with government customers around the world with primary subsidiary operations in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United
Kingdom. Our non-U.S. defense subsidiaries are committed to maintaining long-term relationships with their respective governments and have distinguished themselves as principal regional suppliers and employers.

Our international commercial business consists primarily of business-jet aircraft exports and worldwide aircraft services.
The market for business-jet aircraft and related services outside North America has expanded significantly in recent years, particularly in emerging markets, including the Asia-Pacific region. While the installed base of aircraft is concentrated in
North America, orders from international customers represent a growing segment of our aircraft business with approximately 70 percent of total orders and 65 percent of total backlog in 2011.



10                        General
Dynamics Annual Report 2011








For a discussion of the risks associated with conducting business in international
locations, see Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding sales and assets by geographic region, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II,
Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

COMPETITION

Several factors determine our ability to compete successfully in the defense and business-aviation markets. While customers’ evaluation
criteria vary, the principal competitive elements include:



•the technical excellence, reliability and cost competitiveness of our products and services;

•our ability to innovate and develop new products and technology that improve mission performance and adapt to dynamic threats;

•successful program execution and on-time delivery of complex, integrated systems;

•our global footprint and accessibility to customers;

•our indigenous presence in the countries of several key customers;

•the reputation and customer confidence derived from our past performance; and

•the successful management of our businesses and customer relationships.

DEFENSE MARKET

The U.S. government contracts with numerous domestic and foreign
companies for products and services. We compete against other large platform and system-integration contractors as well as smaller companies that specialize in a particular technology or capability. Internationally, we compete with global defense
contractors’ exports and the offerings of private and state-owned defense manufacturers based in the countries where we operate. Our Combat Systems group competes with a large number of domestic and foreign businesses. Our Marine Systems group
has one primary competitor, Huntington Ingalls Industries, with which it also partners on the Virginia-class submarine program. Our Information Systems and Technology group competes with many companies, from large defense companies to small niche
competitors with specialized technologies. The operating cycle of many of our major platform programs can result in sustained periods of program continuity when we perform successfully.

We are involved in teaming and subcontracting relationships with some of our competitors. Competitions for major defense
programs often require companies to form teams to bring together broad capabilities to meet the customer’s requirements. Opportunities associated with these programs include roles as the program’s integrator, overseeing and coordinating
the efforts of all participants on the team, or as a provider of a specific program component or subsystem element.

Another competitive factor in the defense market is the U.S. government’s use of indefinite delivery, indefinite
quantity (IDIQ) contracts to provide customers with flexible procurement options. A common type of IDIQ contract known as a multiple-award contract allows the government to select a group of eligible contractors for a program and establish an
overall spending limit. When the government awards IDIQ contracts to multiple bidders under the same program, we must compete subsequently for individual delivery orders. The IDIQ contracting model is most common among our Information Systems and
Technology group’s customers but also is being used in programs for which our Combat Systems group competes.

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT
MARKET

Gulfstream has several competitors for each of its products, with more competitors for the shorter-range aircraft. Key
competitive factors include aircraft safety, reliability and performance; comfort and in-flight productivity; service quality, global footprint and responsiveness; technological and new-product innovation; and price. We believe Gulfstream competes
effectively in all of these areas.

The Aerospace group competes worldwide in its business-jet aircraft services
business primarily on the basis of price, quality and timeliness. In its maintenance and repair and FBO businesses, the group competes with several other large companies as well as a number of smaller companies, particularly in the maintenance
business. In its completions business, the group competes with other OEMs, as well as third-party providers.



General Dynamics
Annual Report 2011                        11




BACKLOG

Our total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be performed under firm contracts and includes funded and unfunded portions. For additional discussion of backlog, see
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Summary backlog information for each of our business groups follows:



2011 TotalBacklog NotExpected to beCompleted inDecember 31201020112012FundedUnfundedTotalFundedUnfundedTotalAerospace$17,443$378$17,821$17,618$289$17,907$12,782Combat Systems10,90889211,80010,2831,13711,4204,556Marine Systems7,05013,06920,1199,3649,14018,50412,943Information Systems and Technology7,9781,8439,8217,4342,1459,5792,738Total backlog$43,379$16,182$59,561$44,699$12,711$57,410$33,019

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

To foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct sustained R&D activities as part of our normal business operations. In the commercial sector, most of our Aerospace group’s R&D
activities support Gulfstream’s product enhancement and development programs. In our defense businesses, we conduct customer-sponsored R&D activities under U.S. government contracts and company-sponsored R&D. In accordance with
government regulations, we recover a significant portion of company-sponsored R&D expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. government contracts. For more information on our R&D activities, including our expenditures for the past three
years, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We develop technology, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary
intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. government holds licenses to many of our patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use
the inventions covered by these patents. Although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination
would, in our opinion, have a material impact on our business.

EMPLOYEES

On December 31, 2011, we and our subsidiaries had 95,100 employees, one-fifth of whom work under collective agreements with various
labor unions and worker representatives. Agreements covering approximately 5 percent of total employees are due to expire in 2012. Historically, we have renegotiated labor agreements without any significant disruption to operating activities.

RAW MATERIALS, SUPPLIERS AND SEASONALITY

We depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials, components and subsystems. These supply networks can experience price fluctuations and capacity constraints, which can put pressure on our costs.
Effective management and oversight of suppliers and subcontractors is an important element of our successful performance. We attempt to mitigate these risks with our suppliers by entering into long-term agreements and leveraging company-wide
agreements to achieve economies of scale, and by negotiating flexible pricing terms in our customer contracts. We have not experienced, and do not foresee, significant difficulties in obtaining the materials, components or supplies necessary for our
business operations.

Our business is not generally seasonal in nature. The timing of contract awards, the
availability of funding from the customer, the incurrence of contract costs and unit deliveries are the primary drivers of our revenue recognition. In the United States, these factors are influenced by the federal government’s budget cycle.
Internationally, work for many of our government customers is weighted toward the end of the calendar year, resulting in increasing revenues and earnings over the course of the year.



12                        General
Dynamics Annual Report 2011




REGULATORY MATTERS

U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

U.S. government contracts are subject to procurement
laws and regulations. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) govern the majority of our contracts. The FAR mandates uniform policies and procedures for U.S. government acquisitions and purchased services.
Also, individual agencies can have acquisition regulations that provide implementing language for the FAR or that supplement the FAR. For example, the Department of Defense implements the FAR through the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation
supplement (DFARs). For all federal government entities, the FAR regulates the phases of any product or service acquisition, including:



•acquisition planning,

•competition requirements,

•contractor qualifications,

•protection of source selection and vendor information, and

•acquisition procedures.

In addition, the FAR addresses the allowability of our costs, while the CAS address how those costs can be allocated to contracts. The FAR subjects us to audits and other government reviews covering issues
such as cost, performance and accounting practices relating to our contracts.

INTERNATIONAL

Our international sales are subject to the applicable foreign government regulations and procurement policies and practices, as well as U.S.
policies and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). We are also subject to regulations governing investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and import-export control, including the International Traffic in Arms
Regulations (ITAR).

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT

The Aerospace group is subject to FAA regulation in the United States and other similar aviation regulatory authorities internationally, including the Civil Aviation Administration of Israel (CAAI) and the
European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). For an aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must receive a type certificate from the appropriate aviation authority and each aircraft must receive a certificate of airworthiness. Often, aircraft
receive provisional type certification prior to receiving full type certification. Aircraft outfitting and completions also require approval by the appropriate aviation authority, which often is accomplished through a supplemental type certificate.
Aviation authorities can require changes to a specific aircraft or model type before granting approval. Maintenance facilities and charter operations must be licensed by aviation authorities as well.

ENVIRONMENTAL

We are subject
to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations cover the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of some materials, substances and wastes. We are
directly or indirectly involved in environmental investigations or remediation at some of our current and former facilities and at third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. As a PRP, we potentially are liable to the government or third parties for the full cost of remediating contamination at a relevant site. In cases where we have been designated a
PRP, generally we seek to mitigate these environmental liabilities through available insurance coverage and by pursuing appropriate cost-recovery actions. In the unlikely event we are required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the current
statutory framework would allow us to pursue contributions from other PRPs. We regularly assess our compliance status and management of environmental matters.

Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. Historically, these costs have not been material.
Environmental costs often are recoverable under our contracts with the U.S. government. Based on information currently available and current U.S. government policies relating to cost recovery, we do not expect continued compliance with environmental
regulations to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. For additional information relating to the impact of environmental matters, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part
II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file several types of reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These reports and information include an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements. Free copies of these items are made
available on our website (www.generaldynamics.com) as soon as practicable and through the General Dynamics investor relations office at (703) 876-3152.

These items also can be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling
the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information.



General Dynamics
Annual Report 2011                        13




