ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

General Dynamics offers a broad portfolio of products
and services in business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; shipbuilding design, repair and construction; and information systems, technologies and services. Incorporated in Delaware, we employ approximately 91,700 people and
have a global presence.

We are dedicated to delivering consistently superior shareholder returns. Shareholder value is
created by excellent program execution, organic growth, margin improvement, cash-flow generation and capital deployment. To drive growth, we identify fast currents in our core markets, new customers and attractive opportunities in adjacent markets.
We deploy capital through acquisitions and divestitures, dividends, internal investment and, when appropriate, the repurchase of company shares on the open market.

In addition to creating shareholder value and delivering the highest quality products and services, management fosters a culture centered on continuous improvement, innovation, ethical behavior and
integrity. This culture is evident in how we interact with shareholders, employees, customers, partners and the communities in which we operate.

Formed in 1952 through the combination of Electric Boat Company, Consolidated Vultee (CONVAIR) and other companies, General Dynamics grew organically and through acquisitions until the early 1990s, when
we sold nearly all of our divisions except Electric Boat and Land Systems. Beginning in 1995, we expanded those two core defense businesses by acquiring additional shipyards and combat vehicle-related businesses. In 1997, to reach a new, expanding
market, we began acquiring companies with expertise in information technology products and services. In 1999, we purchased Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, a business-jet aircraft and aviation support-services company. Since 1995, we have acquired
and successfully integrated 54 businesses, including two in 2009.

General Dynamics operates through four business groups
– Aerospace, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology.

AEROSPACE

Our Aerospace group designs, manufactures and outfits a comprehensive family of mid-size and large-cabin Gulfstream business-jet aircraft, and provides
maintenance, refurbishment, outfitting and aircraft services for a variety of business-jet, narrow-body and wide-body aircraft customers globally. With more than 50 years of experience at the forefront of the business-jet aviation market, the
Aerospace group is noted for:



•superior aircraft design, quality, safety and reliability;



•technologically advanced cockpit and cabin systems; and



•industry-leading product service and support.

The group’s Gulfstream products include eight aircraft across a spectrum of price and performance options. The varying ranges, speeds and cabin dimensions are well-suited to the transportation needs
of an increasingly diverse global customer base. The large-cabin models are manufactured at Gulfstream’s headquarters in Savannah, Georgia, and outfitted at one of the group’s U.S. completion facilities. A supplier is responsible for
construction of the mid-size models. Gulfstream then outfits these models in one of the group’s U.S. completion centers.





General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report    3




The Aerospace group’s customers have become increasingly diverse in recent years.
International customers now comprise almost 60 percent of the group’s order backlog, with strong interest across the globe in Europe, the Middle East, Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region. The group’s customer base has also shifted
toward private companies and individual customers, which collectively represent more than two-thirds of total orders. Gulfstream remains a leading provider of aircraft for government and military service around the world, with aircraft operating in
37 nations. These government aircraft are used for head-of-state/ executive transportation and a variety of special-mission applications, including aerial reconnaissance, maritime surveillance, weather research and astronaut training.

To maximize profitability, management has adjusted aircraft production rates, invested in innovative product development and facilities, and
enhanced the group’s global service network. In recent years, Gulfstream amassed a multi-year large-cabin backlog by making measured increases in aircraft production that consciously lagged strong global customer demand. This backlog provided
Gulfstream increased flexibility when global economic turmoil began to negatively impact the business-jet market in late 2008 and early 2009. In response to this sudden market deterioration, we aggressively cut production levels. These production
cuts were designed to stabilize the backlog and level-load production through 2009 and 2010.

The Aerospace group continuously
invests in research and development (R&D) over the course of each aircraft model’s lifecycle to introduce new products and first-to-market enhancements that broaden customer choice, improve aircraft performance and set new standards for
customer safety, comfort and in-flight productivity. The two newest aircraft to join the Gulfstream family, the super-mid-size G250 and the ultra-large-cabin G650, demonstrate this innovation. The G250, which will replace the G200, offers the
largest cabin and the longest range at the fastest speed in its class. The G650, a completely new platform at the top of the business-jet market, has the longest range, fastest speed, largest cabin and most advanced cockpit in the Gulfstream fleet.
Scheduled to enter service in late 2011 and 2012, respectively, both of these aircraft met their first-flight milestones on schedule in 2009. Gulfstream’s new and upgraded aircraft models are designed to minimize lifecycle costs while
maximizing the commonality of parts and pilot-type ratings among the various models. For multiple-aircraft fleet operators, this uniformity reduces training and maintenance costs and enhances safety in the operation of the aircraft.

Current product-enhancement and development efforts include initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, flight-control systems, acoustics,
cabin technologies and enhanced vision systems. Recent innovations include the second-generation Enhanced Vision System (EVS II) and the new Synthetic Vision-Primary Flight Display (SV-PFD), both of which assist the pilot during low-visibility
conditions. EVS II, now certified for use on every Gulfstream aircraft, is a specially designed, forward-looking infrared (FLIR) camera that projects a real-world infrared image on the pilot’s head-up display (HUD), while Synthetic Vision
provides three-dimensional images of the terrain, runway environment and obstacles on the pilot’s primary head-down display. These products work in tandem to provide pilots with unparalleled situational awareness regardless of weather, terrain
or landing-field conditions.

In March 2006, we embarked on a $400 facilities project designed to create additional R&D
offices and laboratories, improve the customer sales and design center, increase aircraft-service capacity and create facilities to build next-generation aircraft in Savannah. With the completion of the new Service Center in Savannah, this
multi-year project is complete. This investment is integral to Gulfstream’s development and production efforts as the new purpose-built G650 manufacturing facility, which opened in March 2008, successfully produced the first three G650 test
articles in 2009.

In addition to the increased service capacity in Savannah, Gulfstream’s Product Support team continues
to deploy a team of technicians to airports in the western hemisphere in support of emergent customer-service requirements. With the addition of Jet Aviation in 2008, we expanded the group’s global service-support network to address the needs
of the growing international installed fleet. An aviation services provider with aircraft service centers in more than 20 locations worldwide, Jet Aviation has enabled the Aerospace group to uphold its commitment to provide customers worldwide
first-in-class service and support 24 hours a day.

Jet Aviation also expanded the Aerospace group’s portfolio to include
premium aircraft-outfitting operations for airframes produced by other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Jet Aviation performs aircraft completions and refurbishments for business jets and narrow- and wide-body commercial aircraft at
locations in Europe and the United States. As a trusted provider of turnkey aircraft management and fixed-base operations (FBO) services to a broad global customer base, Jet Aviation supports the continued growth and diversification of the Aerospace
portfolio.

A market leader in the business-aviation industry, the Aerospace group remains focused on:



•continuously investing in innovative first-to-market technologies and products;



•providing exemplary and timely support to customers around the world; and



•driving efficiencies into, and taking cost out of, aircraft production, outfitting and service processes.



4    General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report




Revenues for the Aerospace group were 16 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, 19
percent in 2008 and 18 percent in 2007. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920082007New aircraft and completions$3,893$4,678$4,081Aircraft services1,154816669Pre-owned aircraft1241878Total Aerospace$5,171$5,512$4,828

COMBAT SYSTEMS

Our Combat Systems group is a global leader in the design, development, production, support and enhancement of
tracked and wheeled military vehicles, weapons systems and munitions for the United States and its allies. The group’s product lines include:



•wheeled combat and tactical vehicles;



•main battle tanks and tracked infantry vehicles;



•guns and ammunition-handling systems;



•ammunition and ordnance;



•chemical, biological and explosive detection systems; and



•drive train components and aftermarket parts.

Combat Systems has a strong foundation of products that are core platforms for customers across the combat vehicle, armaments and munitions markets. These long-term production programs have large, durable
backlogs, providing the group’s management the opportunity to pursue continuous process and productivity improvements to increase customer satisfaction, reduce product lifecycle costs and improve the group’s financial performance. At the
same time, the group applies its design and engineering expertise to develop product improvements that advance the utility and performance of these systems, while identifying and positioning itself for opportunities in emerging and adjacent markets.

Combat Systems’ core military vehicle platforms consist of a variety of wheeled combat vehicles and main battle tanks.
At the heart of these programs are the Stryker wheeled combat vehicle and the Abrams main battle tank. The group is the sole provider of these vehicles – two of the key ground-force assets for its primary customer, the U.S. Army. Both of these
vehicles are expected to be cornerstones of the Army’s force structure for the foreseeable future and offer significant opportunities for modernization and enhancements to meet the warfighter’s evolving requirements. Their proven
effectiveness in multiple threat environments has also created opportunities for these vehicles in international markets.

Combat Systems produces Strykers under a contract awarded in 2001, which has been modified to support the Army’s vision for expanded deployment of the vehicle in new roles throughout the force. The Stryker supports numerous missions
with 10 variants: infantry carrier; command and control; medical evacuation; fire support; engineering; anti-tank; mortar carrier; reconnaissance; mobile gun system (MGS); and nuclear, biological and chemical reconnaissance vehicle (NBCRV). Combat
Systems is now working on a Stryker modernization contract to increase the capabilities of the fleet and ensure future compatibility with light and heavy forces.

Combat Systems continues to support the Army’s evolving needs for the most capable main battle tank with technological upgrades to the Abrams, including the System Enhancement Package (SEP) and the
Tank Urban Survivability Kit (TUSK). The SEP-configured tank is a digital platform with an enhanced command-and-control system, second-generation thermal sights and improved armor. The TUSK increases the tank’s utility and crew survivability in
urban warfare environments. In addition, through an innovative partnership with the Anniston Army Depot, the group’s Abrams Integrated Management (AIM) program refurbishes the oldest M1A1 Abrams tanks to a like-new condition.

Complementing these combat-vehicle programs are Combat Systems’ armor, weapons-system and munitions programs. The group manufactures
the M2 heavy machine gun and the MK19 and MK47 grenade launchers, as well as weapons for most U.S. fighter aircraft, including all high-speed Gatling guns for fixed-wing aircraft and the Hydra-70 family of rockets. The group also holds leading or
sole-source munitions supply positions for products such as:



•the 120mm mortar and the 155mm and 105mm artillery projectile for the U.S. government,



•conventional bomb structures for the U.S. government,



•mortar systems and large-caliber ammunition for the Canadian Department of National Defence and



•military propellant for the North American market.

In addition, Combat Systems is the principal second source for the U.S. military’s small-caliber ammunition needs.

Beyond these long-term platform and supply programs, Combat Systems has been active in providing logistics support in the United States’ ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. In addition to
these revenues associated with the past seven years of warfare, the group also has opportunities associated with the refurbishment of battle-damaged vehicles, the replacement of equipment that has reached the end of its service life and the
replenishment of ammunition and other supplies for the U.S. armed forces. As the principal contractor for the maintenance, repair and reset of Abrams tanks and Stryker vehicles and a major U.S. munitions supplier, we expect the sustaining,
recapitalizing and upgrading of U.S. forces to generate significant revenues for Combat Systems in the coming years.



General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report    5




The Combat Systems group is also focused on innovative technologies and is well-positioned
to participate in future development programs. For the U.S. Marine Corps, the group continues the design and testing of the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV), an expeditionary combat platform designed to replace the service’s current craft.
With the EFV, the Marine Corps can launch forces from ships located beyond the horizon and proceed directly to inland objectives. The EFV offers sea maneuverability at speeds three times the current platform’s capability and ground mobility
equaling that of the Abrams tank, providing a level of flexibility and tactical surprise unparalleled in the current force structure. We are building seven new prototypes as part of a system design and development contract, which we expect to
deliver in 2010.

The group is also a member of one of three teams awarded technology demonstration contracts for the Joint
Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV), which is intended to replace a portion of the Army’s fleet of High Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled Vehicles (HMMWV). The Combat Systems team was the first to complete its critical design review for the JLTV in
2009. In addition, we are well-positioned to compete for work on the Army’s next-generation Ground Combat Vehicle program, for which the customer expects to award development contracts late in 2010.

Combat Systems has a significant presence internationally and is a recognized military-vehicle integrator and leading defense-materiel
provider worldwide. It has manufacturing facilities in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland, and has customers in more than 30 countries. The group’s European business offers a broad range of products,
including light- and medium-weight tracked and wheeled tactical vehicles, amphibious bridge systems, artillery systems, light weapons, ammunition and propellants. Like the group’s U.S. products, many of these systems constitute key platforms
employed by its customers’ military forces. These include the Leopard 2E tank and the Pizarro tracked infantry vehicle, produced for the Spanish army; the Pandur II armored combat vehicle, produced for the Portuguese army and navy; the Eagle
wheeled vehicle for Germany; and the Piranha wheeled armored vehicle, which the group has sold to several European countries.

Combat Systems also is experiencing increased international demand beyond Europe as a result of the demonstrated success of its fielded products. In particular, the group has contracts to provide Abrams tanks and light armored vehicles to a
number of U.S. allies in the Middle East. The group is also a global manufacturer and supplier of highly engineered axles, suspensions, brakes and aftermarket parts for heavy-payload vehicles for a variety of military and commercial customers.

The Combat Systems group continues to focus on operational execution across the business as it delivers on its substantial
backlog. In an environment of continuously expanding threats and evolving customer needs, including an increased emphasis on speed to market, the group remains focused on its customers’ requirements and the opportunities they present.

Revenues for the Combat Systems group were 30 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, 28 percent in 2008 and 29 percent
in 2007. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920082007Medium armored vehicles$4,225$3,570$3,265Main battle tanks1,6701,5671,430Munitions and propellant1,3131,2781,276Engineering and development961676598Rockets and missile components469394294Armament and detection systems459580761Drive train components and other548129173Total Combat Systems$9,645$8,194$7,797

MARINE SYSTEMS

Our Marine Systems group designs, builds and supports submarines and surface ships for the U.S. Navy and commercial ships for Jones Act customers. The group is one of two primary shipbuilders for the
Navy. The group’s diverse portfolio of platforms and capabilities includes:



•nuclear-powered submarines (Virginia Class);



•surface combatants (DDG-51, DDG-1000, LCS);



•auxiliary and combat-logistics ships (T-AKE);



•commercial ships;



•design and engineering; and



•overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services.

The substantial majority of Marine Systems’ workload supports the U.S. Navy. These efforts include the construction of new ships and the design and
development of next-generation platforms to help the customer meet evolving missions and maintain its desired fleet size, as well as maintenance and repair services to maximize the life and effectiveness of in-service ships. This business consists
primarily of major ship-construction programs awarded under large, multi-ship contracts that span several years. The group’s mature Navy construction programs consist of the fast-attack Virginia-class nuclear-powered submarine, the Arleigh
Burke-class (DDG-51) guided-missile destroyer and the Lewis and Clark-class (T-AKE) dry cargo/ammunition combat-logistics ship.

The Virginia-class submarine is the first U.S. submarine designed to address post-Cold War threats, including capabilities tailored for both open-ocean and littoral missions. These stealthy ships are well-suited for a variety of global
assignments, including intelligence gathering, special-operations missions and sea-based missile launch.



6    General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report




The Virginia-class program includes 30 submarines, which the customer is procuring in
multi-ship blocks. The group, in conjunction with an industry partner that shares in the construction of these vessels, has delivered the first six of 18 boats under contract. The remaining 12 boats extend deliveries through 2018. As a result of
U.S. combatant-commander requirements, strong congressional support, innovative cost-saving design and production efforts, and successful program execution, the group is scheduled to build two submarines per year starting in 2011, which will double
the current submarine workload.

Marine Systems also is the lead designer and producer of Arleigh Burke destroyers, a
sophisticated class of surface combatants and the only active destroyer in the Navy’s global surface fleet. During 2009, we deliveredUSS Wayne E. Meyer,the 31st of 34 DDG-51 ships the Navy has contracted with us to build. The three
remaining ships are scheduled for delivery in 2010 and 2011.

The group’s T-AKE combat-logistics ship supports multiple
missions for the Navy, including replenishment at sea for U.S. and NATO operating forces around the world. T-AKE is the first Navy ship to incorporate proven commercial marine technologies such as integrated electric-drive propulsion. These
technologies are designed to minimize T-AKE operations and maintenance costs over an expected 40-year life. The group has delivered the first eight of these ships, including two in 2009. Work is underway on the remaining four ships currently under
contract, with deliveries scheduled through 2011. The Navy funded long-lead material procurement in 2009 for two additional ships under the contract, and we expect to receive construction contracts for these two ships in 2010.

The Marine Systems group participates in the development of technologies and naval platforms for the future. The group continues to apply
its design and engineering expertise to advance next-generation submarine capabilities. These efforts include initial concept studies for the development of the next-generation ballistic missile submarine (SSBN). This new class of SSBN is expected
to replace the current Ohio Class of ballistic missile submarines. Marine Systems also leads a joint Navy-Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) initiative to reduce the cost of future submarines by identifying and overcoming
technological barriers. Under this initiative, the group is developing technologies to propel submarines with external electric motors, reduce the ship’s infrastructure and improve its sensors.

Marine Systems also is participating in a number of programs in support of the Navy’s efforts to renew its surface combatant fleet. The
group is completing the design and has started construction of the next-generation guided-missile destroyer, the DDG-1000 Zumwalt Class. The group is building the first DDG-1000 destroyer at its Bath, Maine, shipyard and is negotiating contracts
with the Navy for construction of the second and third ships, both of which have been fully funded.

Marine Systems leads one
of two industry teams awarded contracts for the design and construction of the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), a new high-speed surface warship designed to address emerging coastal-water threats. Marine Systems’ LCS is well-suited to accommodate
the speed, draft and cargo capacity requirements of this new class of warship. The group delivered its first ship in the fourth quarter of 2009. We are currently working on the remaining ship in backlog, which is scheduled to be delivered in 2012.

In addition to these design and construction programs, the Marine Systems group provides comprehensive ship and submarine
overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services to extend the service life of these vessels and maximize the value of these ships to the customer. The group operates the only full-service maintenance and repair shipyard on the West Coast,
positioning us to support the Navy’s rebalancing of its surface force toward the Pacific Fleet. The group also provides international allies with program management, planning and engineering design support for submarine and surface-ship
construction programs.

Beyond its Navy programs, Marine Systems designs and produces ships for commercial customers to meet
the Jones Act requirement that ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports be built in U.S. shipyards. Marine Systems currently has a contract to build five product-carrier ships. These product carriers are based on a design the group obtained through a
strategic partnership with an experienced international commercial shipyard. The partnership allows Marine Systems to offer proven commercial ship designs to customers, to share best practices that improve efficiency and throughput, and to achieve
cost savings on materials procured through the partnership. The group has delivered the first three ships and expects to deliver the remaining ships by the end of 2010. With the existing fleet of Jones Act ships in need of replacement due to age and
environmental regulations, we are marketing this proven product to new customers.

To further the group’s goals of
efficiency and continuous process improvement, we are committed to strategic investments in our shipyards in partnership with the Navy and local governments. In addition, the Marine Systems group continues to leverage its design and engineering
expertise across its shipyards to improve program execution and generate cost savings. This knowledge sharing enables the group to use resources more efficiently and drive process improvements throughout the business. The group is well-positioned to
effectively fulfill the long-term ship-construction and support requirements of its Navy and commercial customers.

Revenues
for the Marine Systems group were 20 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, 19 percent in 2008 and 18 percent in 2007. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:





Year Ended December 31200920082007Nuclear-powered submarines$3,173$2,579$2,355Surface combatants1,2781,1951,112Auxiliary and commercial ships1,1791,192953Repair and other services733590573Total Marine Systems$6,363$5,556$4,993



General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report    7




INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

Our Information Systems and Technology group provides technologies, products and services that support a wide range of government and commercial digital-communication and information-sharing needs. Since
we created the group in 1998, we have evolved its product and service offerings through almost 30 acquisitions and internal development into a three-part portfolio that includes tactical and strategic mission systems, information technology and
mission services, and intelligence mission systems.

Tactical and strategic mission systems– The group designs,
manufactures and delivers trusted and secure communications network systems, ruggedized computers, command-and-control systems and operational hardware to customers within the U.S. Department of Defense, the intelligence community and federal
civilian agencies, and to international customers.

This market is characterized by programs designed to enhance warfighter
communication, such as the U.S. Army’s Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T) and the Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) Handheld, Manpack, Small Form Fit (HMS) network radios. WIN-T is the Army’s primary battlefield
communications network. As the prime contractor for this program, we are responsible for the design, engineering, integration, production, program management and support of the network. Using ground and satellite communications links, WIN-T provides
commanders with the digital communications services they need to access intelligence information, initiate battle plans, collaborate with other military elements, issue orders and monitor the status of their forces.

The JTRS program provides interoperable communications among all branches of the U.S. military on multi-channel, software-defined radios.
The group is developing JTRS HMS radios, which connect soldiers, sensors and robotics platforms to the Army’s network, enhancing the dismounted soldier’s situational awareness and combat effectiveness. The JTRS HMS program successfully
navigated several milestones in 2009, including intensive customer testing and the successful addition of the Soldier Radio Waveform, in preparation for initial production.

The group provides many of these capabilities to non-U.S. customers as well, including the United Kingdom’s Ministry of Defence, the
Canadian Department of National Defence, the Royal Netherlands Marine Corps and the Romanian Ministry of Defense.

Information
Systems and Technology’s leadership in this market results from decades of experience in designing, building and supporting previous generations of communications technologies. The group’s expertise and record of innovation encompass the
key technologies that enable design and deployment of tactical networking systems. These include:



•ruggedized mobile computing solutions with embedded wireless capability;



•information assurance and encryption technologies, products, systems and services that ensure the security and integrity of digital communications
worldwide;



•digital switching, broadband networking and automated network management; and



•fixed and mobile radio and satellite communications systems and antenna technologies.

In addition to the work we do for the defense and intelligence communities, Information Systems and Technology provides significant support
to the Department of Homeland Security and federal civilian markets through programs such as Rescue 21 and the Integrated Wireless Network (IWN) contract. Rescue 21, a state-of-the-art search-and-rescue system that the U.S. Coast Guard uses to
locate distressed mariners and manage rescue assets, has been deployed to 24 Coast Guard sectors covering nearly 35,000 miles of U.S. coastline. The IWN program is a joint effort by the Departments of Justice, Homeland Security and the Treasury to
provide a nationwide, interoperable wireless communications service in support of federal law enforcement, homeland security and first-responder operations.

Information technology and mission services– The group provides mission-critical information technology (IT) and skilled mission-support services to U.S. defense and intelligence communities,
federal civilian agencies and select commercial customers. The group also specializes in:



•design, development and integration of wireline and wireless voice, video and data networks;



•mission simulation and training services;



•healthcare technology solutions; and



•secure identification and credentialing capabilities.



In this market, Information Systems and Technology has a
long-standing reputation for excellence in providing technical-support personnel and domain specialists who enable customers to execute their missions effectively. For many customers, the group’s employees are the on-call staff that provide
technical support for both commercial desktop technology and mission-specific hardware. For other customers, our employees conceive, install and operate mission systems on a day-to-day basis. In Fort Huachuca, Arizona, for example, Information
Systems and Technology employees provide training and IT support services for critical Army intelligence missions, merging live data with network-centric computer-based simulations. The group also has provided enterprise-wide IT and information
management services to Naval Air Systems Command for more than 10 years as the customer’s primary logistics-support contractor.

Information Systems and Technology also supplies network-modernization and IT infrastructure services to U.S. government customers. As one of the U.S. Air Force’s leading partners for network modernization, for example, the group has
provided IT support services to more than 75 Air Force bases. It currently supports all Air Force main operating bases. The group also has provided continuous enterprise-wide IT services and support to the U.S. Senate for more than five years.



8    General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report




Information Systems and Technology is a leading provider of high-end healthcare technology
solutions, including data management, analytics, claims fraud prevention and detection software, decision support and process automation that support the fast-growing needs for technology modernization of both U.S. federal agencies and commercial
healthcare organizations. In Iraq, the group supports the Army’s military healthcare IT mission, helping ensure continuity of care for injured soldiers by providing accurate, timely information to medical staff both in the field and at
treatment facilities.

Intelligence mission systems– The group provides mission-related systems integration,
development and operations support to customers in the U.S. defense, intelligence, space and homeland security communities, and select allies. These include:



•signals and information collection, processing and distribution systems;



•special-purpose computing;



•multi-level security;



•data mining and fusion;



•cyber security services; and



•open-architecture mission systems and service-oriented architecture.

One of the group’s businesses has a 50-year legacy of providing advanced fire control systems for Navy submarine programs. Capitalizing
on the breadth of this maritime-domain expertise, the group developed the core mission system for the General Dynamics team’s entry in the Navy’s Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) competition, and it is the ship mission systems integrator on the
new Joint High Speed Vessel program for the Army and the Navy.

Information Systems and Technology also is a leading provider
of personnel with mission-specific experience in executing programs in the intelligence field. In partnership with the U.S. Joint Forces Command, for example, the group integrates collaborative command, control, communications, computing,
intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (C4ISR) environments in support of worldwide training exercises.

In 2009, we
acquired Axsys Technologies, Inc., expanding the group’s footprint to include sensors and optical components for defense, aerospace, homeland security and high-performance commercial systems. Combining these sensors with our existing sensing
and exploitation capabilities enables the group to significantly enhance customer product offerings.

The group’s
contracts in securing and protecting organizations from network attacks have resulted in a market-leading position in government cyber security, computer forensics, countering identity theft and preventing credit card fraud. Information Systems and
Technology is the principal support contractor for the U.S. Computer Emergency Response Team (US-CERT), for example, which provides response support and defense against cyber attacks for U.S. executive branch agencies, and information sharing and
collaboration with state and local government, industry and international partners. The group’s capabilities in information operations, computer network defense and multi-level C4ISR-system security position it to meet emerging requirements to
protect the national information infrastructure against infiltration and corruption.

The group’s increasingly
diversified customer base has stimulated new opportunities in each of its three principal markets, including:



•the growing requirements for cyber security services among homeland security and intelligence customers;



•military and federal requirements for healthcare IT services; and



•the warfighter’s need for improved tactical ISR and real-time intelligence to enable success against conventional and asymmetric threats.

Revenues for the Information Systems and Technology group were 34 percent of our consolidated revenues in
2009 and 2008, and 35 percent in 2007. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920082007Tactical and strategic mission systems$4,713$4,455$4,008IT and mission services3,8323,5363,584Intelligence mission systems2,2572,0472,030Total Information Systems and Technology$10,802$10,038$9,622

CUSTOMERS

In 2009, 71 percent of our revenues were from the U.S. government; 10 percent were from U.S.
commercial customers; 9 percent were directly from international defense customers; and the remaining 10 percent were from international commercial customers.

U.S. GOVERNMENT

Our primary customers are the U.S. Department of Defense and intelligence
community. We have also developed relationships with other U.S. government customers, including the Department of Homeland Security and several first-responder agencies. Our revenues from the U.S. government were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200920082007Direct$22,243$19,864$18,447Foreign Military Sales*478282310Total U.S. government$22,721$20,146$18,757Percent of total revenues71%69%69%



*In addition to our direct international sales, we sell to foreign governments through the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program. Under the FMS program, we contract with
and are paid by the U.S. government, and the U.S. government assumes the risk of collection from the foreign government customer.



General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report    9




We perform our U.S. government business under cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials and
fixed-price contracts. Contracts for research, engineering, prototypes, repair and maintenance are typically cost-reimbursement or time-and-materials. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, the customer reimburses us for allowable costs and pays a
fixed fee and/or an incentive- or award-based fee. These fees are determined by our ability to achieve targets set in the contract, such as cost, quality, schedule and performance. Under time-and-materials contracts, the customer pays a fixed hourly
rate for direct labor and reimburses us for materials costs. Our production contracts are primarily fixed-price. Under these contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed amount.

Cost-reimbursement contracts accounted for approximately 38 percent of our U.S. government business in both 2009 and 2008;
time-and-materials contracts accounted for approximately 7 percent in both years; and fixed-price contracts accounted for approximately 55 percent in both years.

Each of these contract types presents advantages and disadvantages. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk. They also can include fee schedules that allow the customer to make
additional payments when we satisfy certain performance criteria. However, not all costs are reimbursed under these types of contracts, and the government carefully reviews the costs we charge. In addition, negotiated base fees are generally lower,
consistent with our lower risk. Under time-and-materials contracts, our profit may vary if actual labor hour costs vary significantly from the negotiated rates. Additionally, because we often charge materials costs with little or no fee, the content
mix can impact the profit margins associated with these contracts. Fixed-price contracts typically have higher fee levels in recognition of the higher risk and offer us additional profits if we can complete the work for less than the contract
amount. Fixed-price contracts require that we absorb cost overruns, should they occur.

U.S. COMMERCIAL

Our U.S. commercial revenues were $3.3 billion in 2009, $4.1 billion in 2008 and $3.7 billion in 2007. This represented approximately 10 percent of our
consolidated revenues in 2009 and 14 percent in each of 2008 and 2007. The majority of these sales are for Gulfstream aircraft. This customer base consists of individuals and public and privately held companies representing a wide range of
industries.

INTERNATIONAL

Our direct revenues from government and commercial customers outside the United States were $6 billion in 2009, $5.1 billion in 2008 and $4.8 billion in 2007. This represented approximately 19 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009
and 17 percent in each of 2008 and 2007.

We conduct business with government customers around the world with subsidiary
operations in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our non-U.S. defense subsidiaries are committed to developing long-term relationships with their respective governments and
have distinguished themselves as principal regional suppliers.

Our international commercial business consists primarily of
business-jet aircraft exports and the delivery of aircraft support from a worldwide service network. The market for business-jet aircraft and related services outside North America has expanded significantly in recent years, particularly in Europe,
the Middle East, and Asia-Pacific. While the United States continues to be our largest market for business aircraft, orders from customers outside North America represent a growing segment of our aircraft business, approaching 60 percent of total
orders and total backlog in 2009.



For a discussion of the risks associated with conducting business in international locations, see Risk
Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding revenues and assets by geographic region, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.



10    General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report




COMPETITION

Several factors determine our ability to compete successfully in both the defense and business-jet aircraft markets. While customers’ evaluation criteria vary, the principal competitive elements
include:



•the technical excellence, reliability and cost competitiveness of our products and services;



•our ability to develop, manufacture and integrate complex systems and deliver them on schedule;



•the reputation and customer confidence derived from our past performance; and



•the successful management of our businesses and customer relationships.

DEFENSE MARKET

The U.S. government
contracts with numerous domestic and foreign companies for defense products and services. We compete against other large platform and system-integration contractors, as well as smaller companies that specialize in a particular technology or
capability. Internationally, we compete with global defense contractors’ exports and the offerings of private and state-owned defense manufacturers operating in the local countries. Our Combat Systems group competes with a large number of
domestic and foreign businesses. Our Marine Systems group has only one primary competitor, Northrop Grumman Corporation, with which it also partners or subcontracts on several programs, including the Virginia-class submarine. Our Information Systems
and Technology group competes with many companies, from large defense companies to small niche competitors with specialized technologies. The defense market’s contract-based procurement relationships and the long-term operating cycle of many of
our major platform programs can result in sustained periods of program continuity when we perform successfully.

We also are
involved in teaming and subcontracting relationships with some of our competitors. Competitions for major defense programs often require companies to form teams to bring together broad capabilities to meet the customer’s requirements.
Opportunities associated with these programs include roles as the program’s system integrator, overseeing and coordinating the efforts of all participants in the team, or as a provider of a specific hardware, such as military vehicles provided
by Combat Systems, or a subsystem element, such as core mission systems provided by Information Systems and Technology.

Another competitive factor in the defense market is the U.S. government’s use of multiple-award indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts to provide customers with flexible procurement options. IDIQ contracts allow the
government to select a group of eligible contractors for a program and establish an overall spending limit. When the government awards IDIQ contracts to multiple bidders under the same program, we must compete to be selected as a participant in the
program and subsequently compete for individual delivery orders. This contracting model is most common among our Information Systems and Technology group’s customers but is also being used in programs for which our Combat Systems group
competes.

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT MARKET

The business-jet aircraft manufacturing market is divided into segments based on aircraft range, price and cabin size. Gulfstream has at least one competitor for each of its products currently in
production, with more competitors for the shorter-range aircraft. There are currently no competitors in the group’s ultra-large-cabin market (G650). Key competitive factors include aircraft safety, reliability and performance; comfort and
in-flight productivity; service quality and timeliness; technological and new-product innovation; and price. We believe Gulfstream competes effectively in all of these areas.

The Aerospace group competes in its business-jet aircraft services business primarily on the basis of price, service quality and timeliness.
In its maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) and fixed-base operations (FBO) business, the group competes worldwide with several other large companies, as well as a large number of smaller companies, particularly in the maintenance business. In its
completions business, the Aerospace group competes with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) as well as other third-party providers.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

We conduct independent R&D activities as part of our normal business operations. Over the
past three years, the majority of our company-sponsored R&D expenditures was in the defense business. In accordance with government regulations, we recover a significant portion of these expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. government
contracts. We also conduct customer-sponsored R&D activities under U.S. government contracts. In the commercial sector, most of our Aerospace group’s R&D activities support Gulfstream’s product enhancement and development programs.
For more information on our R&D activities, including our expenditures for the past three years, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

EMPLOYEES

On
December 31, 2009, we had approximately 91,700 employees, 22 percent of whom work under collective bargaining agreements with various labor representatives. Agreements covering approximately 7 percent of total employees are due to expire during
2010. Historically, we have renegotiated labor agreements without any significant disruption of operating activities.



General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report    11




BACKLOG

Our total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be performed under firm contracts and includes funded and unfunded portions. For additional discussion of backlog, see
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Summary backlog information for each of our business groups follows:



2009 TotalBacklog NotExpected to beCompleted
in2010December 3120092008FundedUnfundedTotalFundedUnfundedTotalAerospace$18,891$433$19,324$21,861$618$22,479$15,645Combat Systems11,4311,98513,41612,1272,83114,9586,084Marine Systems7,11115,36222,47310,48215,96326,44517,127Information Systems and Technology8,4231,90910,3327,2423,00310,2453,413Total backlog$45,856$19,689$65,545$51,712$22,415$74,127$42,269

RAW MATERIALS, SUPPLIERS AND SEASONALITY

We depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials and
components. These supply networks can experience price fluctuations and capacity constraints, which can put pressure on pricing. Effective management and oversight of suppliers and subcontractors is an important element of our successful
performance. We attempt to mitigate these risks through long-term agreements with our suppliers or by negotiating flexible pricing terms in our customer contracts. We have not experienced, and do not foresee, significant difficulties in obtaining
the materials, components or supplies necessary for our business operations.

Our business is not seasonal in nature. The
timing of contract awards, the availability of funding from the customer, the incurrence of contract costs and unit deliveries are the primary drivers of our revenue recognition. In the United States, these factors are influenced by the federal
government’s October-to-September fiscal year. This process has historically resulted in higher revenues in the latter half of the year. Internationally, many of our government customers schedule deliveries toward the end of the calendar year,
resulting in increasing revenues and earnings over the course of the year.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We are a leader in the development of innovative products, manufacturing technologies and systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large
portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. government holds licenses to our patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts, and it may use or authorize
others to use the inventions covered by our patents. Although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or
termination would, in our opinion, have a material impact on our business.

REGULATORY MATTERS

U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

U.S. government
contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) govern the majority of our contracts. The FAR mandates uniform policies and procedures for U.S. government
acquisitions and purchased services. Also, individual agencies can have acquisition regulations that provide implementing language for the FAR, or that supplement the FAR. For example, the Department of Defense implements the FAR through the Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation supplement (DFARs). For all federal government entities, the FAR regulates the phases of any product or service acquisition, including:



•acquisition planning,



•competition requirements,



•contractor qualifications,



•protection of source selection and vendor information and



•acquisition procedures.

In addition, the FAR addresses the allowability of our costs, while the CAS address how those costs can be allocated to contracts. The FAR also subjects us to audits and other government
reviews. These reviews cover issues such as cost, performance and accounting practices relating to our contracts. The government may use information from these reviews to challenge our contract-related costs and fees. Failure to comply with
procurement laws or regulations can result in civil, criminal



12    General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report




or administrative proceedings. These might involve fines, penalties, suspension of payments, or suspension
or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting for a period of time.

INTERNATIONAL

Our international sales are subject to the applicable foreign government regulations and procurement policies and practices, as well as certain U.S. policies
and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). We are also subject to regulations governing investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and import-export control, including the International Traffic in Arms
Regulations (ITAR). Other factors that can affect international sales include currency exchange fluctuations and political and economic risks.

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT

The Aerospace group is subject to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulation in the United States
and other similar aviation regulatory authorities internationally. For an aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must receive a type certificate from the appropriate aviation authority, and each aircraft must receive a certificate of
airworthiness. Aircraft completions also require approval by the appropriate aviation authority, which often is accomplished through a supplemental type certificate. Aviation authorities can require changes to a specific aircraft or model type for
safety reasons if they believe the aircraft does not meet their standards. Maintenance facilities and charter operations must be licensed by aviation authorities as well.

ENVIRONMENTAL

We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign
environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations cover the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of some materials, substances and wastes. We are directly or indirectly involved in environmental
investigations or remediation at some of our current and former facilities, and at third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state
environmental agency. As a PRP, we potentially are liable to the government or third parties for the full cost of remediating contamination at a relevant site. In cases where we have been designated a PRP, generally we seek to mitigate these
environmental liabilities through available insurance coverage and by pursuing appropriate cost-recovery actions. In the unlikely event we are required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the current statutory framework would allow us to pursue
contributions from other PRPs. We regularly assess our compliance status and management of environmental matters.

Operating
and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. Historically, these costs have not been material. Environmental costs often are allowable and
recoverable under our contracts with the U.S. government. Based on information currently available and current U.S. government policies relating to allowable costs, we do not expect continued compliance with environmental regulations to have a
material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. For additional information relating to the impact of environmental controls, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file several types of reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These
reports and information include an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements. Free copies of these items are made available on our website (www.generaldynamics.com) as soon as
practicable and through the General Dynamics investor relations office at (703) 876-3152.

These items also can be read
and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website
(www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.



General Dynamics 2009 Annual Report    13




