ITEM 1.BUSINESS



BUSINESS OVERVIEW

General Dynamics is an aerospace and defense company that offers a broad portfolio of products and services in business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; shipbuilding; and communications and information technology. Our experienced management team delivers shareholder returns through disciplined execution on backlog, efficient cash-flow conversion and prudent capital deployment. We  manage overhead costs, undertake continuous-improvement initiatives and collaborate across our businesses to maximize earnings and cash. Our disciplined capital deployment approach includes internal investment, acquisitions and divestitures, dividends and the repurchase of company shares on the open market.

Incorporated in Delaware in 1952, General Dynamics grew organically and through acquisitions until the early 1990s when we sold nearly all of our divisions except Electric Boat and Land Systems. Starting in the mid-1990s, we again began expanding by acquiring combat vehicle-related businesses, additional shipyards, information technology product and service companies and Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation. Since 1995, we have acquired and integrated more than65businesses to further strengthen and complement our business portfolio. We and our subsidiaries have92,200employees globally.

We operate through four business groups: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology. For selected financial information regarding each of our business groups, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

AEROSPACE

Our Aerospace group designs, manufactures and outfits a comprehensive family of Gulfstream business-jet aircraft, provides aircraft services (including maintenance and repair work, fixed-based operations (FBO) and aircraft management services) and performs aircraft completions for aircraft produced by other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). With more than 50 years of experience at the forefront of the business-jet market, the Aerospace group is known for:



•superior aircraft design, quality, performance, safety and reliability;

•technologically advanced cockpit and cabin systems; and

•industry-leading product service and support.

The Gulfstream product line includes aircraft across a spectrum of price and performance options in the large- and mid-cabin business-jet market. The varying ranges, speeds and cabin dimensions are well-suited to the transportation needs of an increasingly diverse and global customer base. The large-cabin models are manufactured at Gulfstream’s headquarters in Savannah, Georgia, while the mid-cabin models are constructed by an international partner. All models are outfitted in the group’s U.S. facilities.

The two newest aircraft to join the Gulfstream family, the ultra-large-cabin, ultra-high-speed G650 and the super-mid-size G280, each earned Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) type certification and entered into service in 2012. The G650 has the longest range, fastest speed, largest cabin and most advanced cockpit in the Gulfstream fleet and defines a completely new segment at the top of the business-jet market. The G280, which has replaced the G200, offers a larger cabin and the longest range at the fastest speed in its class. During flight testing, both of these aircraft exceeded original performance expectations and set city-pair speed records.








Demand for Gulfstream aircraft remains strong across geographic regions and customer types. While North American corporate customer demand has increased recently, international orders comprise approximately60 percentof the group’s backlog, representing demand from several emerging markets including the Asia-Pacific region. Private companies and individuals collectively represent approximately60 percentof the group’s backlog. Gulfstream also remains a leading provider of aircraft for governments and militaries  around the world, with aircraft operated by nearly40nations. These government aircraft are used for head-of-state/executive transportation and a variety of special-mission applications, including aerial reconnaissance, maritime surveillance and weather research.

We are committed to continuous investment in research and development (R&D) activities that enable us to introduce new products and first-to-market enhancements that broaden customer choice, improve aircraft performance and set new standards for customer safety, comfort and in-flight productivity. Gulfstream’s aircraft are designed to minimize lifecycle costs while maximizing the commonality of parts among the various models. Current product-enhancement and development efforts include initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, biofuels, flight-control systems, acoustics, cabin technologies and enhanced vision systems. Recent innovations include a state-of-the-art cabin management system designed for the G650, and now available on several other Gulfstream aircraft. This system gives passengers control of the aircraft cabin systems through a handheld device synched to a particular seat on the aircraft. Each passenger can easily control their own environment, including lighting, temperature and entertainment equipment. We also offer the PlaneBook application, which provides pilots easy and immediate digital access to critical flight information and aircraft-specific documents.

A multi-year facilities project at our Savannah campus is scheduled to continue through 2017. This expansion includes constructing new facilities, renovating existing infrastructure and expanding the group’s R&D center. This investment is intended to position the group to meet future demand for business-jet aircraft. This effort follows a recently completed multi-year project in Savannah that established a purpose-built G650 manufacturing facility, increased aircraft-service capacity, improved the group’s customer sales and design center and created a state-of-the-art paint facility.

In addition to the increased service capacity in Savannah, the service network for Gulfstream aircraft is evolving to address the demands of the growing international customer base. In2012, for example, we added Gulfstream service centers in emerging markets such as Brazil and China and expanded our facility in Luton, United Kingdom. We also have a team of Gulfstream aircraft technicians to deploy for urgent customer-service requirements in the Americas and Europe. This commitment to superior product support continues to receive industry recognition, including the number-one ranking for thetenthconsecutive year in the annual Aviation International News Product Support Survey, as well as the top ranking in the annual Professional Pilot Survey.

Jet Aviation augments our Aerospace portfolio by providing best-in-class maintenance, repair,  aircraft management and FBO services to a broad global customer base. The Aerospace group also performs aircraft completions for business jets and narrow- and wide-body commercial aircraft produced by other OEMs at locations in Europe and the United States.

A market leader in the business-aviation industry, the Aerospace group remains focused on developing innovative first-to-market technologies and products; providing exemplary and timely service support to customers globally; and driving efficiencies and reducing costs in the aircraft production, outfitting and service processes.

Revenues for the Aerospace group were16 percentof our consolidated revenues in2010,19 percentin2011and22 percentin2012. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:










Year Ended December 31201020112012Aircraft manufacturing, outfitting and completions$3,869$4,400$5,317Aircraft services1,3231,5211,491Pre-owned aircraft10777104Total Aerospace$5,299$5,998$6,912

COMBAT SYSTEMS

Our Combat Systems group is a global leader in the design, development, production, support and enhancement of tracked and wheeled military vehicles, weapons systems and munitions for the United States and its allies. The group’s product lines include:



•wheeled combat and tactical vehicles,

•main battle tanks and tracked combat vehicles,

•munitions and propellant,

•rockets and gun systems,

•axle and drivetrain components and aftermarket parts, and

•support and sustainment services.

We have a mature and diverse portfolio of franchise products that deliver core capabilities to domestic and international customers across the military vehicle, weapons systems and munitions markets. These long-term production programs position us to pursue continuous process improvements and other cost reduction initiatives that drive the group’s financial performance. We apply our design and engineering expertise to develop product enhancements that advance the utility, safety and effectiveness of our products.

Our portfolio of vehicle platforms in our U.S. military vehicles business consists of wheeled combat vehicles and main battle tanks for the U.S. military, including the Stryker wheeled combat vehicle and the Abrams main battle tank. These vehicles are fundamental to the military’s warfighting capabilities and offer continuing opportunities for upgrades and modernization to meet evolving requirements.

The Stryker has proven itself as a versatile combat vehicle, supporting numerous missions over the past10 years. To meet evolving customer requirements, the group developed a double-V-hulled Stryker to further enhance soldier protection from improvised explosive devices (IEDs). Over the lasttwo years, nearly750double-V-hulled vehicles have been delivered to the U.S. Army. In2012, the group secured contracts to perform hull exchanges to convert previously delivered Stryker vehicles to the double-V-hull configuration.

We continue to support the Army’s evolving needs for main battle tanks with technology upgrades to the Abrams, such as the System Enhancement Package (SEP). The SEP-configured tank is a digital platform with an enhanced command-and-control system, second-generation thermal sights and improved armor. In September2012, we received a multi-year contract from the Army to conduct development efforts for additional upgrade opportunities designed to increase the efficiency and capability of the Abrams tank.

Beyond these long-term platform programs, we have opportunities associated with the refurbishment of battle-damaged vehicles and the replacement of equipment that has reached the end of its service life. As the sole provider of Abrams tanks and Stryker vehicles, Combat Systems is the primary contractor for the maintenance, repair and reset of these vehicles.

The group’s portfolio of tactical vehicles is at the forefront of blast- and ballistic- protected technologies, designed to protect vehicle occupants from landmines, hostile fire and IEDs. We have delivered more than4,500RG-31 and Cougar vehicles to the U.S. military under the Mine-Resistant, Ambush Protected (MRAP)








vehicle program. This large installed base has led to subsequent modernization programs, as well as support and sustainment services.

By leveraging the expertise gained from our incumbency on current production programs, we are well-positioned to participate in future U.S. combat vehicle development programs. In addition to the Abrams and Stryker modernization efforts, we have a contract for the design and development phase of the Army’s next-generation infantry fighting vehicle, the Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV). The group is also positioning itself for the upcoming competitions for new contracts for the Amphibious Combat Vehicle (ACV), the cornerstone of the U.S. Marine Corps’ future amphibious-assault requirements, and the Army’s Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle (AMPV) program, a replacement for the M113 family of vehicles.

As a result of the demonstrated success of our U.S. military vehicles, we have cultivated continued international demand. The group’s U.S. exports include Abrams tanks and Light Armored Vehicles (LAVs) for U.S. allies around the world. The international operations of our U.S. military vehicles business also have generated significant indigenous opportunities. We are modernizing approximately 600 LAV III combat vehicles for the Canadian government, as well as providing long-term support to all Canadian LAV vehicles. For the U.K. Ministry of Defence, we are producing the Foxhound armored vehicle and will co-produce the Specialist Vehicle with the U.K. operations of our Information Systems and Technology group.

Combat Systems has also benefited from customer relationships developed through its in-country operations including manufacturing sites in Austria, France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland where we are a key part of the defense industrial base. The group’s European operations offer a broad range of products, including military vehicles, amphibious bridge systems, artillery systems, ammunition and propellants. Key platforms include the Leopard tank, the Pizarro and Ulan tracked infantry vehicles, the Eagle wheeled vehicle, and the Piranha and Pandur wheeled armored vehicles.

Complementing these combat-vehicle offerings are Combat Systems’ weapons systems and munitions programs. For ground forces, the group manufactures vehicle armor, M2 heavy machine guns and MK19 and MK47 grenade launchers. For airborne platforms, the group produces weapons for many foreign customers and all U.S. fighter aircraft, including high-speed Gatling guns for fixed-wing aircraft and the Hydra-70 family of rockets. We are also a global manufacturer and supplier of composite aircraft and ground equipment components and highly engineered axles, suspensions, brakes and aftermarket parts for a variety of military and commercial customers.

Our munitions portfolio covers the full breadth of naval, air and ground forces applications across all calibers and weapon platforms for the U.S. government and its allies. The group holds leading munitions supply positions for products such as large caliber tank ammunition, medium caliber ammunition, mortar and artillery projectiles, tactical missile aerostructures and high-performance warheads, military propellants and conventional bombs and bomb cases.

The Combat Systems group continues to emphasize operational execution and business optimization initiatives to drive cost reductions as the group delivers on its backlog. As an example, we are aligning our European business for anticipated lower demand, ensuring that we are competitively positioned for the future. In an environment of dynamic threats and evolving customer needs, the group remains focused on innovation, affordability and speed-to-market to deliver on our current programs and to secure new opportunities.

Revenues for the Combat Systems group were27 percentof our consolidated revenues in2010and2011and25 percentin2012. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:










Year Ended December 31201020112012Wheeled combat vehicles$3,961$4,220$3,930Munitions and propellant1,3591,3141,252Tanks and tracked vehicles1,5671,159792Rockets and gun systems728740698Engineering and development408397516Drivetrain components and other855997804Total Combat Systems$8,878$8,827$7,992

MARINE SYSTEMS

Our Marine Systems group designs, builds and supports submarines and surface ships. We are one of two primary shipbuilders for the U.S. Navy. The group’s diverse portfolio of platforms and capabilities includes:



•nuclear-powered submarines (Virginia class and Ohio-class replacement),

•surface combatants (DDG-51 and DDG-1000),

•auxiliary and combat-logistics ships (MLP and T-AKE),

•commercial ships (Jones Act ships),

•design and engineering support, and

•overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services.

Our work for the Navy includes the construction of new ships and the design and development of next-generation platforms to help meet evolving missions and maintain desired fleet size. The group also provides maintenance, repair and modernization services to help maximize the life and effectiveness of in-service ships and maintain their relevance to the Navy’s current requirements. This business consists primarily of major ship-construction programs awarded under large, multi-ship contracts that span several years. The group’s current Navy construction programs are the Virginia-class nuclear-powered submarine, the Arleigh Burke-class (DDG-51) and Zumwalt-class (DDG-1000) guided-missile destroyers, and the  Mobile Landing Platform (MLP) auxiliary support ship.

The Virginia-class submarine includes capabilities for open-ocean and littoral missions. These stealthy boats are well-suited for a variety of global assignments, including intelligence gathering, special-operations missions and sea-based missile launch. The Virginia-class program includes 30 submarines, which the customer is procuring in multi-ship blocks. The group has delivered nine of 18 boats under contract in conjunction with an industry partner that shares in the construction of these vessels. The remaining nine boats under contract extend deliveries through 2018. We have submitted a proposal for the next block of submarines under the program expected to be awarded near the end of 2013.

We are the lead designer and producer of DDG-51s, the only active destroyer in the Navy’s global surface fleet, managing the design, modernization and lifecycle support of these ships. DDG-51s are multi-mission combatants that offer defense against a wide range of threats, including ballistic missiles. In 2012, we delivered the final DDG-51 ship under the prior multi-ship contract. In connection with the Navy’s restart of the DDG-51 program, we have been awarded construction contracts for two destroyers. Delivery of these ships is scheduled for 2016 and 2017. We have submitted a competitive bid for a multi-ship construction contract that is expected to be awarded in the first half of 2013.

The group is also currently building the three ships planned under the DDG-1000 destroyer program, the Navy’s next-generation, guided-missile naval destroyer. These ships are equipped with numerous advanced technology and survivability systems, including a low radar profile, an integrated power system and advanced gun systems that provide a three-fold increase in range over current naval surface weapons.








Construction and delivery of the destroyer requires integration of components manufactured by others and supplied as government-furnished material. Deliveries of the ships are scheduled for 2015, 2016 and 2018.

The group’s MLP auxiliary support ship serves as a floating transfer station, improving the Navy’s ability to deliver equipment and cargo to areas without adequate port access. In 2012, the group was awarded a construction contract for the third ship in the program. Construction of the first two ships is underway, with delivery of one ship per year beginning in 2013. The Navy’s long-term shipbuilding plan includes procurement of a fourth ship in 2014.

In 2012, the group delivered the final ship under the 14-ship T-AKE program, marking the completion of a shipbuilding program that spanned more than a decade. T-AKE ships support multiple missions for the Navy and incorporate marine technologies and commercial ship-design features to minimize operating and maintenance costs over the ships’ service life. Throughout the course of the program, the group reduced the hours required to build a single ship by nearly 80 percent.

We are also developing new technologies and naval platforms. These design and engineering efforts include initial concept studies for the development of the next-generation ballistic-missile submarine, which is expected to replace the Ohio class of ballistic missile submarines. We received an award in the fourth quarter of 2012 for the design of the submarine. In conjunction with these efforts, the group is participating in the design of the Common Missile Compartment under joint development for the U.S. Navy and the U.K. Royal Navy.

In addition to these design and construction programs, Marine Systems provides comprehensive ship and submarine overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services to extend the service life and maximize the value of these ships to the customer. We operate the only full-service maintenance and repair shipyard on the West Coast. With the recent acquisition of two repair operations, we have extended the reach of our surface-ship repair capabilities in several major Navy ports on the East Coast. We also provide extensive submarine repair services in a variety of U.S. locations. Recently, we were awarded a contract for advance planning and preliminary execution of restoration efforts on USS Miami, which was badly damaged in a fire. We also provide allied navies with program management, planning, engineering and design support for submarine and surface-ship construction programs. In addition, we are a leading operator of ships for the U.S. Military Sealift Command and commercial customers.

Marine Systems has the proven capability to design and produce ships for commercial customers to meet the Jones Act requirement that ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports be built in U.S. shipyards. In the fourth quarter of 2012, we were awarded a contract for the construction of two liquefied natural gas (LNG)-powered containerships. Construction is scheduled to begin in 2014 with deliveries in 2015 and 2016. When complete, the containerships are expected to be the largest ships of any type in the world primarily powered by LNG. We anticipate that the age of the Jones Act fleet and environmental regulations that require double-hull tankers and impose emission control limits will provide additional commercial shipbuilding opportunities.

To further the group’s goals of efficiency, technological innovation, affordability for the customer and continuous improvement, we make strategic investments in our business, often in cooperation with the Navy and local governments. In addition, Marine Systems leverages its design and engineering expertise across its shipyards to improve program execution and generate cost savings. This knowledge-sharing enables the group to use resources more efficiently and drive process improvements. We are well-positioned to continue to fulfill the ship-construction and support requirements of our Navy and commercial customers.

Revenues for the Marine Systems group were21 percentof our consolidated revenues in2010,20 percentin2011and21 percentin2012. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:










Year Ended December 31201020112012Nuclear-powered submarines$3,587$3,696$3,601Surface combatants1,3601,1911,152Auxiliary and commercial ships961930746Repair and other services7698141,093Total Marine Systems$6,677$6,631$6,592

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

Our Information Systems and Technology group provides critical technologies, products and services that support a wide range of government and commercial communication and information sharing and security needs. The group consists of a three-part portfolio centered on secure mobile communication systems, information technology solutions and mission support services, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems.

Secure mobile communication systems– We design, manufacture and deliver secure communication systems, command-and-control systems and operational hardware to customers in the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the intelligence community and federal civilian and public safety agencies, and to international customers. Our leadership in this market results from decades of domain expertise with legacy systems, incumbency on today’s programs and continuous innovation that encompasses key technologies at the center of our customers’ missions. The group’s solutions include:



•fixed and mobile radio and satellite communications systems and antenna technologies;

•information assurance and encryption technologies, products, systems and services that ensure the security and integrity of fixed and mobile digital communications;

•battlespace command-and-control systems; and

•broadband networking.

This market is characterized by programs that enhance the customer’s ability to communicate, collaborate and access vital information through high-bandwidth, on-the-move Internet-like battlefield networks. Key programs include the U.S. Army’s Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T) and the Handheld Manpack Small Form Fit (HMS) family of radios, which includes the AN/PRC-154 Rifleman and AN/PRC-155 Manpack radios and several other small networking radios.

WIN-T is the Army’s primary mobile battlefield communications network which provides soldiers secure, high-speed, high-capacity voice, data and video communications. As the prime contractor, we are responsible for the design, engineering, integration, production, program management and support of the network. The first increment of WIN-T is now fully deployed. The second increment, which adds on-the-move command and control and other capabilities, completed operational tests in May and began fielding in October of 2012. The third increment, which is in the development and testing phase, will provide enhanced network reliability, increased capacity and smaller, more-tightly integrated communications and networking gear.

We are the prime contractor for the HMS program, which provides networking radios that give soldiers secure, mobile voice, video and data communications capabilities, similar to those available through commercial cellular networks. The Rifleman radio has been deployed in Afghanistan with the Army’s 75th Ranger Regiment and 10th Mountain Division. The Manpack radio has demonstrated its capabilities through extensive government tests and the Army has announced plans to field it to five brigade combat teams in 2013. The Army has purchased more than 26,000 HMS radios from us and plans to procure competitively more than 240,000 over the life of the program.








Information Systems and Technology delivers similar communications and information-sharing benefits to many federal civilian customers. Since 2001, we have delivered more than 13,500 radios to the FAA, allowing air traffic controllers to communicate with commercial and military aircraft throughout the nation’s airspace, and we were recently awarded a contract to provide the FAA updated radios using the latest in communications technology.

We also provide many of these tactical communications capabilities to non-U.S. customers, including the Canadian Department of National Defence, the U.K. Ministry of Defence and public agencies and private companies in Europe and the Middle East. For example, we designed, procured, integrated and installed the telecommunications, security and control systems for the newly operating Khalifa Port in the United Arab Emirates, helping to make it among the most technologically advanced ports in the world.

Information technology solutions and mission support services– We provide mission-critical information technology (IT) and highly specialized mission-support services to the U.S. defense and intelligence communities; the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services and other federal civilian agencies; and commercial and international customers. We support the IT lifecycle from design and integration to operation and maintenance. We specialize in:

•mission-operations simulation and training systems and services,

•large-scale data center optimization and modernization,

•network operations and maintenance,

•health information technology solutions and services, and

•secure wireless and wire-line networks and enterprise infrastructure.

In this market, Information Systems and Technology has a long-standing reputation for excellence in providing technical-support personnel and domain specialists, many of whom possess high-level clearances, to help customers execute their missions effectively. Frequently, our employees are the on-call staff that provides technical support for commercial desktop technology and mission-specific hardware. For example, we operate approximately 20 security operations centers and 15 critical incident response teams. Our employees also develop, install and operate mission systems on a daily basis. We are also at the forefront of cloud technologies and services.

Information Systems and Technology supplies network-modernization and IT infrastructure services to U.S. government customers, commercial wireless network providers and federal, state and local public safety agencies. We work closely with our customers to ensure these network infrastructures are secure, efficient, scalable and cost-effective. We are currently providing full enterprise support in the relocation of the Department of Homeland Security’s headquarters to the St. Elizabeths campus in Washington, D.C., including establishing a state-of-the-art IT infrastructure.

The group is also a leading provider of IT solutions in the fast-growing market for government and commercial healthcare technology modernization. Our offerings include data management, analytics, fraud prevention and detection software, decision support, process automation solutions and program management solutions for deployed IT military health systems. For the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, we are supporting the government’s implementation of healthcare reform and medical benefits programs by delivering an automated Medicare claim adjudication system that efficiently manages the large volume of medical and healthcare claims. We also provide critical citizen services, including support for Medicare claims, contact center services, and student loan processing and administration for the Department of Education.








Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems– We provide mission systems development, integration and operations support to customers in the U.S. defense, intelligence and homeland security communities, and to U.S. allies. These offerings include:



•cyber security services and products;

•open-architecture mission systems;

•signals and information collection, processing and distribution systems;

•imagery solutions, sensors and cameras; and

•special-purpose computing.

Information Systems and Technology’s experience in securing and protecting government organizations from network attacks has resulted in a market-leading position in cyber security. The group offers a range of cyber security services and products that help government and commercial customers protect their networks and prevent data breaches by providing real-time network visibility. For example, we are a principal support contractor for the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team, which provides defense against and response to cyber attacks for U.S. executive branch agencies. We also leverage our expertise to provide investigative, forensic and network remediation services to commercial victims of cyber attacks, including retail and financial services firms.

Information Systems and Technology has a 50-year legacy of providing advanced fire control systems for Navy submarine programs and is developing and integrating commercial off-the-shelf software and hardware upgrades to improve the tactical control capabilities for several submarine classes. This initiative leads the implementation of the Navy’s open-architecture approach on submarines with a design that emphasizes shared standards, providing greater interoperability, scalability and supplier independence. Capitalizing on this expertise and open-architecture approach, we developed the combat and seaframe control systems and are the lead systems integrator for the Navy’s Independence-class Littoral Combat Ship (LCS). We are also designing, integrating and testing the electronic systems for the Navy’s 10-ship  Joint High Speed Vessel program.

The group’s three principal markets continue to be driven by the expanding needs of our diverse customer base, including improved mobile communications and real-time intelligence, IT network and business system consolidation and modernization, cyber security services and emergency response systems and services.

Revenues for the Information Systems and Technology group were36 percentof our consolidated revenues in2010,34 percentin2011and32 percentin2012. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31201020112012Mobile communication systems$5,134$4,511$3,425IT solutions and mission support services4,2624,6014,545Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems2,2162,1092,047Total Information Systems and Technology$11,612$11,221$10,017





CUSTOMERS

In2012,66 percentof our revenues were from the U.S. government,13 percentwere from U.S. commercial customers,8 percentwere from international defense customers, and the remaining13 percentwere from international commercial customers.








U.S. GOVERNMENT

Our primary customers are the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) and intelligence community. We also contract with other U.S. government customers, including the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and several first-responder agencies. Our revenues from the U.S. government were as follows:



Year Ended December 31201020112012DoD$20,446$19,221$17,217Non-DoD1,9412,2122,382Foreign Military Sales (FMS)*8761,1701,206Total U.S. government$23,263$22,603$20,805Percent of total revenues72%69%66%

* In addition to our direct international sales, we sell to foreign governments through the FMS program. Under the FMS program, we contract with and are paid by the U.S. government and the U.S. government assumes the risk of collection from the foreign government customer.

We perform our U.S. government business under fixed-price, cost-reimbursement and time-and-materials contracts. Our production contracts are primarily fixed-price. Under these contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed amount. Contracts for research, engineering, repair and maintenance and other services are typically cost-reimbursement or time-and-materials. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, the customer reimburses contract costs and pays a fixed fee or an incentive- or award-based fee. These fees are determined by our ability to achieve targets set in the contract, such as cost, quality, schedule and performance. Under time-and-materials contracts, the customer pays a fixed hourly rate for direct labor and reimburses us for material costs.

Fixed-price contracts accounted for approximately55 percentof our U.S. government business in2011and56 percentin2012; cost-reimbursement contracts accounted for approximately38 percentin2011and39 percentin2012; and time-and-materials contracts accounted for approximately7 percentin2011and5 percentin2012.

Each of these contract types presents advantages and disadvantages. Fixed-price contracts typically have higher fee levels as we assume more risks, such as any cost overruns under our control. These types of contracts offer additional profits when we complete the work for less than the contract amount. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk. Accordingly, the negotiated base fees are usually lower than on fixed-price contracts. Cost-reimbursement contracts also can include fee provisions that allow the customer to make additional payments when we satisfy specific performance criteria. Additionally, not all costs are allowable under these types of contracts and the government carefully reviews the costs we charge. Under time-and-materials contracts, our profit may vary if actual labor-hour costs vary significantly from the negotiated rates. Additionally, because these contracts can provide little or no fee for managing material costs, the content mix can impact the profit margins.

U.S. COMMERCIAL

Our U.S. commercial revenues were$3.2 billionin2010,$3.8 billionin2011and$4.2 billionin2012. This represented approximately10 percentof our consolidated revenues in2010,12 percentin2011and13 percentin2012. The majority of these revenues are for business-jet aircraft and services where our customer base consists of individuals and public and privately held companies representing a wide range of industries. Other commercial products include drivetrain components and aftermarket parts in our Combat Systems group, Jones Act ships in our Marine Systems group and a variety of products and services in our Information Systems and Technology group.










INTERNATIONAL

Our direct revenues from government and commercial customers outside the United States were$6 billionin2010,$6.3 billionin2011and$6.5 billionin2012. This represented approximately18 percentof our consolidated revenues in2010,19 percentin2011and21 percentin2012.

We conduct business with government customers around the world with primary subsidiary operations in Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our non-U.S. defense subsidiaries are committed to maintaining long-term relationships with their respective governments and have distinguished themselves as principal regional suppliers and employers.

Our international commercial business consists primarily of business-jet aircraft exports and worldwide aircraft services. The market for business-jet aircraft and related services outside North America has expanded significantly in recent years, particularly in emerging markets. While the installed base of aircraft is concentrated in North America, orders from international customers represent a growing segment of our aircraft business with approximately60 percentof total backlog in2012.

For a discussion of the risks associated with conducting business in international locations, see Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding revenues and assets by geographic region, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

COMPETITION



Several factors determine our ability to compete successfully in the defense and business-aviation markets. While customers’ evaluation criteria vary, the principal competitive elements include:



•the technical excellence, reliability and cost competitiveness of our products and services;

•our ability to innovate and develop new products and technology that improve mission performance and adapt to dynamic threats;

•successful program execution and on-time delivery of complex, integrated systems;

•our global footprint and accessibility to customers;

•our indigenous presence in the countries of several key customers;

•the reputation and customer confidence derived from our past performance; and

•the successful management of customer relationships.



DEFENSE MARKET COMPETITION

The U.S. government contracts with numerous domestic and foreign companies for products and services. We compete against other large platform and system-integration contractors as well as smaller companies that specialize in a particular technology or capability. Internationally, we compete with global defense contractors’ exports and the offerings of private and state-owned defense manufacturers based in the countries where we operate. Our Combat Systems group competes with a large number of domestic and foreign businesses. Our Marine Systems group has one primary competitor with which it also partners on the Virginia-class submarine program. Our Information Systems and Technology group competes with many companies, from large defense companies to small niche competitors with specialized technologies. The operating cycle of many of our major platform programs can result in sustained periods of program continuity when we perform successfully.

We are involved in teaming and subcontracting relationships with some of our competitors. Competitions for major defense programs often require companies to form teams to bring together broad capabilities to meet the customer’s requirements. Opportunities associated with these programs include roles as the








program’s integrator, overseeing and coordinating the efforts of all participants on the team, or as a provider of a specific program component or subsystem element.



BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT MARKET COMPETITION

The Aerospace group has several competitors for each of its Gulfstream products, with more competitors for the shorter-range aircraft. Key competitive factors include aircraft safety, reliability and performance; comfort and in-flight productivity; service quality, global footprint and responsiveness; technological and new-product innovation; and price. We believe that Gulfstream competes effectively in all of these areas.

The Aerospace group competes worldwide in its business-jet aircraft services business primarily on the basis of price, quality and timeliness. In its maintenance, repair and FBO businesses, the group competes with several other large companies as well as a number of smaller companies, particularly in the maintenance business. In its completions business, the group competes with other OEMs, as well as third-party providers.



BACKLOG

Our total backlog represents the estimated remaining value of work to be performed under firm contracts and includes funded and unfunded portions. For additional discussion of backlog, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



Summary backlog information for each of our business groups follows:



2012 TotalBacklog NotExpected to BeCompleted in 2013December 3120112012FundedUnfundedTotalFundedUnfundedTotalAerospace$17,618$289$17,907$15,458$209$15,667$9,886Combat Systems10,2831,13711,4207,4421,2988,7403,221Marine Systems9,3649,14018,50413,4953,60617,10111,323Information Systems and Technology7,4342,1459,5798,1301,6439,7732,799Total backlog$44,699$12,711$57,410$44,525$6,756$51,281$27,229

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

To foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct sustained R&D activities as part of our normal business operations. In the commercial sector, most of our Aerospace group’s R&D activities support Gulfstream’s product enhancement and development programs. In our U.S. defense businesses, we conduct customer-sponsored R&D activities under government contracts and company-sponsored R&D. In accordance with government regulations, we recover a significant portion of company-sponsored R&D expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. government contracts. For more information on our R&D activities, including our expenditures for the past three years, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.








INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We develop technology, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. government holds licenses to many of our patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents. Although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business.

EMPLOYEES

OnDecember 31, 2012, we and our subsidiaries had92,200employees, approximatelyone-fifthof whom work under collective agreements with various labor unions and worker representatives. Agreements covering approximately6 percentof total employees are due to expire in2013. Historically, we have renegotiated labor agreements without any significant disruption to operating activities.

RAW MATERIALS, SUPPLIERS AND SEASONALITY

We depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials, components and subsystems. These supply networks can experience price fluctuations and capacity constraints, which can put pressure on our costs. Effective management and oversight of suppliers and subcontractors is an important element of our successful performance. We attempt to mitigate these risks with our suppliers by entering into long-term agreements and leveraging company-wide agreements to achieve economies of scale, and by negotiating flexible pricing terms in our customer contracts. We have not experienced, and do not foresee, significant difficulties in obtaining the materials, components or supplies necessary for our business operations.

Our business is not generally seasonal in nature. The timing of contract awards, the availability of funding from the customer, the incurrence of contract costs and unit deliveries are the primary drivers of our revenue recognition. In the United States, these factors are influenced by the federal government’s budget cycle. Internationally, work for many of our government customers is weighted toward the end of the calendar year, generally resulting in increasing revenues and earnings over the course of the year.



REGULATORY MATTERS

U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

U.S. government contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) govern the majority of our contracts. The FAR mandates uniform policies and procedures for U.S. government acquisitions and purchased services. Also, individual agencies can have acquisition regulations that provide implementing language for the FAR or that supplement the FAR. For example, the DoD implements the FAR through the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation supplement (DFARs). For all federal government entities, the FAR regulates the phases of any product or service acquisition, including:



•acquisition planning,

•competition requirements,

•contractor qualifications,

•protection of source selection and vendor information, and

•acquisition procedures.








In addition, the FAR addresses the allowability of our costs, while the CAS address how those costs can be allocated to contracts. The FAR subjects us to audits and other government reviews covering issues such as cost, performance and accounting practices relating to our contracts.

INTERNATIONAL

Our international sales are subject to the applicable foreign government regulations and procurement policies and practices, as well as U.S. policies and regulations. We are also subject to regulations governing investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and import-export control.

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT

The Aerospace group is subject to FAA regulation in the United States and other similar aviation regulatory authorities internationally, including the Civil Aviation Administration of Israel (CAAI), the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC). For an aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must receive a type certificate from the appropriate aviation authority and each aircraft must receive a certificate of airworthiness. Aircraft outfitting and completions also require approval by the appropriate aviation authority, which often is accomplished through a supplemental type certificate. Aviation authorities can require changes to a specific aircraft or model type before granting approval. Maintenance facilities and charter operations must be licensed by aviation authorities as well.



ENVIRONMENTAL

We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations cover the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes. We are directly or indirectly involved in environmental investigations or remediation at some of our current and former facilities and at third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. As a PRP, we potentially are liable to the government or third parties for the cost of remediating contamination at a relevant site. In cases where we have been designated a PRP, generally we seek to mitigate these environmental liabilities through available insurance coverage and by pursuing appropriate cost-recovery actions. In the unlikely event we are required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the current statutory framework would allow us to pursue contributions from other PRPs. We regularly assess our compliance status and management of environmental matters.

Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. Historically, these costs have not been material. Environmental costs often are recoverable under our contracts with the U.S. government. Based on information currently available and current U.S. government policies relating to cost recovery, we do not expect continued compliance with environmental regulations to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. For additional information relating to the impact of environmental matters, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file several types of reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These reports and information include an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements. Free copies of these items are made available on our website (www.generaldynamics.com) as soon as practicable and through the General Dynamics investor relations office at (703) 876-3583.








These items also can be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information.





