ITEM 1.BUSINESS

BUSINESS OVERVIEW

General Dynamics offers a broad portfolio of
products and services in business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; military and commercial shipbuilding; and communications and information technology. Incorporated in Delaware, we employ approximately 90,000 people and have
a global presence.

We are dedicated to delivering consistently superior shareholder returns. Shareholder value is
created through disciplined program execution, organic growth, margin improvement, efficient cash-flow conversion and prudent capital deployment. To drive growth, we pursue innovative product development and fast currents in our core markets as well
as new customers and attractive opportunities in adjacent markets. To enhance margins, we seek to manage overhead costs, incentivize continuous-improvement initiatives and collaborate across our commercial and defense businesses. Our balanced
capital deployment approach includes: acquisitions and divestitures, dividends, internal investment and, when appropriate, the repurchase of company shares on the open market.

In creating shareholder value and delivering the highest-quality products and services, we foster a culture centered on
ethical behavior and integrity. This culture is evident in how we interact with shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, partners and the communities in which we operate.

Formed in 1952 through the combination of Electric Boat Company, Consolidated Vultee (CONVAIR) and other companies, General
Dynamics grew organically and through acquisitions until the early 1990s, when we sold nearly all of our divisions except Electric Boat and Land Systems. Beginning in 1995, we expanded those two core defense businesses by acquiring additional
shipyards and combat vehicle-related businesses. In 1997, to reach a new, expanding market, we began acquiring companies with expertise in information technology products and services. In 1999, we purchased Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, a
business-jet aircraft and aviation support-services company. Since 1995, we have acquired and integrated 57 businesses, including three in 2010.

General Dynamics operates through four business groups: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology. For selected financial information regarding each of our business
groups, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

AEROSPACE

Our Aerospace group designs, manufactures and outfits a comprehensive family of mid- and large-cabin business-jet aircraft,
and provides maintenance, refurbishment, outfitting and aircraft services for a variety of business-jet, narrow-body and wide-body aircraft customers globally. With more than 50 years of experience at the forefront of the business-jet aviation
market, the Aerospace group is noted for:



•superior aircraft design, quality, safety and reliability;

•technologically advanced cockpit and cabin systems and

•industry-leading product service and support.

The group’s Gulfstream products include eight aircraft across a spectrum of price and performance options. The varying
ranges, speeds and cabin dimensions are well-suited to the transportation needs of an increasingly diverse global customer base. The large-cabin models are





General Dynamics
Annual ReportŸ2010                        3








manufactured at Gulfstream’s headquarters in Savannah, Georgia, and outfitted at one of the group’s U.S. completion facilities. The
mid-cabin models are constructed by a key supplier and outfitted by Gulfstream in one of the group’s U.S. completion centers.

While the installed base of aircraft is predominately in North America, international customers represent nearly 60 percent of the group’s backlog, with growing order interest from emerging markets
including the Asia-Pacific region. Private companies and individual customers collectively represent approximately two-thirds of the group’s total orders. Gulfstream remains a leading provider of aircraft for government and military service
around the world, with aircraft operated by nearly 40 nations. These government aircraft are used for head-of-state/executive transportation and a variety of special-mission applications, including aerial reconnaissance, maritime surveillance,
weather research and astronaut training.

To maximize profitability, management has adjusted aircraft production
rates, invested in innovative product development and facilities, and enhanced the group’s global service network. For example, prior to the recent economic downturn, Gulfstream amassed a multi-year large-cabin backlog by making measured
increases in aircraft production that consciously lagged growing international customer demand. This backlog provided Gulfstream increased flexibility when global economic turmoil began to negatively impact the business-jet market in late 2008. In
response to this sudden market deterioration, we quickly and aggressively cut 2009 production levels to stabilize the backlog. We also reduced employment, cut overhead costs and introduced a multi-week summer furlough to adjust the group’s
manufacturing operations. Improved new order activity and lower customer default levels enabled us to maintain large-cabin production in 2010 while modestly increasing mid-cabin production.

The Aerospace group continuously invests in research and development (R&D) over the course of each aircraft model’s
lifecycle to introduce new products and first-to-market enhancements that broaden customer choice, improve aircraft performance and set new standards for customer safety, comfort and in-flight productivity. The two newest aircraft to join the
Gulfstream family, the super-mid-size G250 and the ultra-large-cabin, ultra-high-speed G650, demonstrate this innovation. The G250, which will replace the G200, offers the largest cabin and the longest range at the fastest speed in its class. The
G650 has the longest range, fastest speed, largest cabin and most advanced cockpit in the Gulfstream fleet and defines a completely new segment at the top of the business-jet market. Scheduled to enter service in late 2011 and mid-2012,
respectively, both aircraft continue to perform well in flight testing, and they each remain on track for aircraft certification in 2011. Gulfstream’s new and upgraded aircraft models are designed to minimize lifecycle costs while maximizing
the commonality of parts among the various models.

Current product-enhancement and development efforts include
initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, flight-control systems, acoustics, cabin technologies and enhanced vision systems. Recent innovations include the second-generation Enhanced Vision System (EVS II) and the Synthetic Vision-Primary Flight
Display (SV-PFD), both of which assist the pilot during low-visibility conditions. EVS II is a specially designed, forward-looking infrared (FLIR) camera that projects a real-world infrared image on the pilot's head-up display (HUD), while Synthetic
Vision provides three-dimensional images of the terrain, runway environment and obstacles on the pilot’s primary head-down display. These products work in tandem to provide pilots with unparalleled situational awareness regardless of weather,
terrain or landing-field conditions.

In November 2010, we announced a $500 seven-year facilities expansion
project at Gulfstream’s Savannah campus designed to ensure the group is well-positioned to meet future demand for business-jet aircraft and support services. This investment plan includes constructing new facilities, renovating existing
infrastructure and expanding the group’s R&D center. The new effort follows a recently completed $400 multi-year project in Savannah that established a purpose-built G650 manufacturing facility, increased aircraft-service capacity, improved
the group’s customer sales and design center and created a state-of-the-art paint facility. This expansion initiative has paid immediate dividends. For example, the new manufacturing facility, designed for lean manufacturing and precision
assembly, has successfully produced the five G650 test aircraft that are being used to meet the program’s certification testing schedule. Further, the newly expanded service center helped accommodate the significant recovery in customer demand
in 2010.

In addition to the increased service capacity in Savannah, Gulfstream’s service network continues
to evolve to address the demands of the growing international installed base. In 2010, we focused on increasing the group’s international parts and materials inventory, adding key personnel in fast-growing markets including Asia and South
America, and realigning our existing North American service organization. In the western hemisphere, Gulfstream’s product support team continues to deploy a team of technicians in support of urgent customer-service requirements. We have also
leveraged our 2008 acquisition of Jet Aviation, a maintenance and repair services provider with aircraft service centers in more than 20 locations worldwide, to provide customers around the world first-in-class service and support 24 hours a day.

Jet Aviation also expanded the Aerospace group’s portfolio to include premium aircraft-outfitting operations
for airframes produced by other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Jet Aviation performs aircraft completions and refurbishments for business jets and narrow- and wide-body commercial aircraft at locations in Europe and the United States. As a
trusted provider of turnkey aircraft management and fixed-base operations (FBO) services to a broad global customer base, Jet Aviation supports the continued growth and diversification of the Aerospace portfolio.



4                        General
Dynamics Annual ReportŸ2010








A market leader in the business-aviation industry, the Aerospace group remains focused on:



•continuously investing in innovative first-to-market technologies and products;

•providing exemplary and timely service support to customers around the world and

•driving efficiencies into, and taking cost out of, the aircraft production, outfitting and service processes.

Revenues for the Aerospace group were 19 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008 and 16 percent in both 2009 and 2010.
Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200820092010Aircraft manufacturing and outfitting$4,678$3,893$  3,869Aircraft services8161,1541,323Pre-owned aircraft18124107Total Aerospace$5,512$5,171$  5,299

COMBAT SYSTEMS

Our Combat
Systems group is a global leader in the design, development, production, support and enhancement of tracked and wheeled military vehicles, weapons systems and munitions for the United States and its allies. The group’s product lines include:



•wheeled combat and tactical vehicles,

•main battle tanks and tracked infantry vehicles,

•munitions and propellant,

•rockets and gun systems and

•drivetrain components and aftermarket parts.

Combat Systems has a strong foundation of programs that deliver core capabilities to customers across the military-vehicle,
weapons-system and munitions markets. These long-term production programs enable the group to pursue continuous process and productivity improvements, reduce product costs and improve the group’s financial performance. The group also applies
its design and engineering expertise to develop product improvements that advance the utility and performance of these systems and increase warfighter safety and effectiveness, while identifying and positioning itself for new opportunities.

Combat Systems’ primary military-vehicle platforms consist of a variety of wheeled combat vehicles and main
battle tanks. At the heart of these programs are the Stryker wheeled combat vehicle and the Abrams main battle tank – two of the key ground-force assets for our customers. Both of these vehicles remain elemental to the military’s force
structure and offer continuing opportunities for modernization and enhancements to meet the warfighter’s evolving requirements.

The Stryker has proven itself as a versatile combat vehicle, supporting numerous missions with 10 variants: infantry carrier; command and control; medical evacuation; fire support; engineering; anti-tank;
mortar carrier; reconnaissance; mobile gun system (MGS); and nuclear, biological and chemical reconnaissance vehicle (NBCRV). In addition to ongoing production of these vehicles, Combat Systems continues to work with the Army to ensure the Stryker
remains relevant, affordable and capable of addressing a dynamic threat environment. For example, we are in the process of developing, testing and deploying in a period of just 18 months double-V-hulled vehicles that are designed to protect the crew
from improvised explosive devices (IEDs). The group was authorized to begin production of these upgraded vehicles in 2010, with initial deliveries expected in early 2011.

Combat Systems continues to support the Army’s evolving needs for main battle tanks with technology upgrades to the
Abrams, such as the System Enhancement Package (SEP). The SEP-configured tank is a digital platform with an enhanced command-and-control system, second-generation thermal sights and improved armor. We are also engaged in ongoing development efforts
that can provide additional upgrade work while increasing the efficiency and capability of the tank.

Complementing these combat-vehicle programs are Combat Systems’ weapons-systems and munitions programs. For ground
forces, the group manufactures vehicle armor, M2 heavy machine guns and MK19 and MK47 grenade launchers. For airborne platforms, Combat Systems produces weapons for most U.S. fighter aircraft, including all high-speed Gatling guns for fixed-wing
aircraft and the Hydra-70 family of rockets. Combat Systems is also a global manufacturer and supplier of highly engineered axles, suspensions, brakes and aftermarket parts for heavy-payload vehicles for a variety of military and commercial
customers.

The group holds leading or sole-source munitions supply positions for products such as:



•the 120mm mortar and the 155mm and 105mm artillery projectile for the U.S. government,

•conventional bomb structures for the U.S. government,

•mortar systems and large-caliber ammunition for the Canadian Department of National Defence and

•military propellant for the North American market.

In addition, Combat Systems is the principal second source for the U.S. military’s small-caliber ammunition needs.

Beyond these long-term platform and supply programs, Combat Systems provides logistics support in the United States’
ongoing operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. The group has opportunities associated with the



General Dynamics
Annual ReportŸ2010                        5








refurbishment of battle-damaged vehicles, the replacement of equipment that has reached the end of its service life and the replenishment of ammunition and other supplies for the U.S. armed
forces. As the sole provider of Abrams tanks and Stryker vehicles, Combat Systems is the primary contractor for the maintenance, repair and reset of these vehicles. The group is also a provider for the upgrade of Mine-Resistant, Ambush-Protected
(MRAP) vehicles.

With the expertise from our incumbency on current production programs, the Combat Systems group
is well-positioned to participate in future U.S. vehicle development programs. We are competing to lead the design and development of the Army’s next-generation armored personnel carrier, the Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV). The group is developing
the Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle (EFV), a mission-critical combat platform designed to address the U.S. Marine Corps' amphibious assault requirement. As part of a system design and development contract, we have delivered seven new prototypes,
which have performed well in customer reliability testing. The group is also a member of one of three teams awarded technology demonstration contracts for the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle (JLTV), which is intended to replace a portion of the U.S.
fleet of High Mobility Multi-purpose Wheeled Vehicles (HMMWV).

Combat Systems has a significant presence
internationally and is a recognized military-vehicle integrator and leading defense-materiel provider worldwide. The group has manufacturing facilities in Australia, Austria, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Spain and Switzerland. These operations
are a key part of the defense industrial base of their home countries and have an extended customer base in more than 30 countries. The group’s European business offers a broad range of products, including light- and medium-weight tracked and
wheeled tactical vehicles, amphibious bridge systems, artillery systems, light weapons, ammunition and propellants. Key platforms and their customers include the Leopard 2E tank and the Pizarro tracked infantry vehicle, produced for the Spanish
army; the EAGLE wheeled vehicle for Germany; and the Piranha and Pandur wheeled armored vehicles, which the group produces for several European and Middle Eastern countries.

Combat Systems is experiencing strong international demand as a result of the demonstrated success of its fielded products.
The group’s U.S. export activities include Abrams tanks and light armored vehicles (LAVs) for U.S. allies in the Middle East. Additionally, in 2010, the group was selected to manufacture tracked combat vehicle hulls for the Israeli Ministry of
Defense. Combat Systems is also leveraging the strong customer relationships developed through its in-country operations. For example, Combat Systems continues work on Canada’s next-generation LAV at its Ontario facility and expects to
transition from development to production in 2011. Through a contract awarded in 2010 to the United Kingdom operations of the company’s Information Systems and Technology group (see pg. 8), we will co-produce with a U.K.-based partner the
Specialist Vehicle for the U.K. Ministry of Defence. The Specialist Vehicle is based on one of the group’s proven platforms. The program is envisioned to field up to 1,200 vehicles of different variants.

The Combat Systems group continues to emphasize operational execution across the business to drive cost reductions and margin
improvement as the group delivers on its substantial backlog. In an environment of dynamic threats and evolving customer needs, the group remains focused on innovation, affordability and speed-to-market to secure new opportunities.

Revenues for the Combat Systems group were 28 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, 30 percent in 2009 and 27 percent
in 2010. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200820092010Wheeled combat vehicles$3,475$4,017$3,916Munitions and propellant1,4701,5411,612Tanks and tracked vehicles1,5631,6701,567Rockets and gun systems512595616Engineering and development673960372Drivetrain components and other501862795Total Combat Systems$8,194$9,645$8,878

MARINE SYSTEMS

Our Marine Systems group designs, builds and supports submarines
and surface ships for the U.S. Navy and Jones Act ships for commercial customers. The group is one of two primary shipbuilders for the Navy. The group’s diverse portfolio of platforms and capabilities includes:



•nuclear-powered submarines (Virginia Class),

•surface combatants (DDG-51, DDG-1000, Littoral Combat Ship),

•auxiliary and combat-logistics ships (T-AKE),

•commercial ships (Jones Act ships),

•design and engineering support (SSBN) and

•overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services.



The substantial majority of Marine Systems’
workload supports the U.S. Navy. These efforts include the construction of new ships, and the design and development of next-generation platforms to help the customer meet evolving missions and maintain its desired fleet size. The group also
provides maintenance and repair services to help maximize the life and effectiveness of in-service ships and maintain their relevance to the Navy’s current requirements. This business consists primarily of major ship-construction programs
awarded under large, multi-ship contracts that span several years. The group’s three mature Navy construction programs are the fast-attack Virginia-class nuclear-powered submarine, the Arleigh Burke-class (DDG-51) guided-missile destroyer and
the Lewis and Clark-class (T-AKE) dry cargo/ammunition combat-logistics ship.

The Virginia-class submarine is the
first U.S. submarine designed to address post-Cold War threats, including capabilities tailored for both



6                        General
Dynamics Annual ReportŸ2010








open-ocean and littoral missions. These stealthy ships are well-suited for a variety of global assignments, including intelligence gathering, special-operations missions and sea-based missile
launch. The Virginia-class program includes 30 submarines, which the customer is procuring in multi-ship blocks. The group has delivered the first seven of 18 boats under contract in conjunction with an industry partner that shares in the
construction of these vessels. In 2010, Marine Systems delivered the seventh boat in a record 65 months, five months faster than any of the previous boats in the program. The remaining 11 boats under contract extend deliveries through 2018. As a
result of U.S. combatant-commander requirements for the versatile capabilities of the Virginia-class submarine, strong customer and congressional support, innovative cost-saving design and production efforts, and successful program performance, the
group is scheduled to start construction of two submarines per year beginning in 2011. The group has been working toward this increased submarine production workload for several years.

Marine Systems also is the lead designer and producer of Arleigh Burke destroyers, the only active
destroyer in the Navy’s global surface fleet. In 2010, we deliveredUSS Jason Dunham, the 32ndof 34 DDG-51 ships the Navy has contracted with us to build. The two remaining ships are scheduled for delivery in 2011 and 2012, respectively. DDG-51s are multi-mission combatants that offer excellent
defense against a wide range of threats, including ballistic missile defense. The Navy plans to continue the DDG-51 program given the proven capabilities of this destroyer. The group expects to receive an award in 2011 for an additional DDG-51 ship
associated with the continuation of this program. Marine Systems remains the lead DDG-51 design and planning shipyard, managing the design, modernization and lifecycle support of these ships.

The group’s T-AKE combat-logistics ship supports multiple missions for the Navy, including replenishment at sea for U.S.
and NATO operating forces around the world. T-AKE is the first Navy ship to incorporate proven commercial marine technologies such as integrated electric-drive propulsion. These technologies are designed to minimize T-AKE operations and maintenance
costs over an expected 40-year life. In 2010, we received construction contracts for the final two ships under the 14-ship program. The group has delivered the first 10 of these ships, including two in 2010. Work is underway on the remaining four
ships, with two deliveries scheduled in 2011 and two in 2012.

The group is also developing technologies and naval
platforms for the future. These design and engineering efforts include initial concept studies for the development of the next-generation ballistic-missile submarine (SSBN), which is expected to replace the current Ohio Class of ballistic missile
submarines. The group is also participating in the design of the SSBN Common Missile Compartment under development for the U.S. Navy and the Royal Navy of the United Kingdom.

Marine Systems participates in a number of programs in support of the Navy’s efforts to renew its surface fleet. The
group has completed the detailed design of the next-generation guided-missile destroyer, the DDG-1000 Zumwalt Class, and is currently building the first ship at its Bath, Maine, shipyard. In 2010, the group was awarded a contract for continued
engineering and support services for the program, and long-lead construction and material for the second and third ships. We expect to be awarded construction contracts for the second and third ships in 2011.

In 2010, the group was awarded a contract for long-lead material and advanced design efforts for the first ship of the Mobile
Landing Platform (MLP) program. The MLP is an auxiliary support ship intended to serve as a floating transfer station, improving the Navy’s ability to deliver equipment and cargo to areas without adequate port access in support of a variety of
missions. The Navy plans to build three MLP ships, and the contract for construction of the first ship is scheduled to be awarded in 2011.

In addition to these design and construction programs, Marine Systems provides comprehensive ship and submarine overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services to extend the service life of these vessels and
maximize the value of these ships to the customer. The group operates the only full-service maintenance and repair shipyard on the West Coast, positioning us to support the Navy’s rebalancing of its surface force toward the Pacific Fleet. The
group also provides international allies with program management, planning, engineering and design support for submarine and surface-ship construction programs.

Beyond its Navy programs, Marine Systems designs and produces ships for commercial customers to meet the Jones Act requirement that ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports be built in U.S. shipyards. In
2010, the group completed a contract to build five product-carrier ships. Given the group’s proven success on this program, the age of the fleet of Jones Act ships and environmental regulations that require double-hull tankers and impose
emission control limits, we anticipate additional commercial shipbuilding opportunities to materialize as the economy recovers.

To further the group’s goals of efficiency, affordability for the customer and continuous improvement, we make strategic investments in our business, often in cooperation with the Navy and local
governments. In addition, Marine Systems leverages its design and engineering expertise across its business to improve program execution and generate cost savings. This knowledge sharing enables the group to use resources more efficiently and drive
process improvements. The group is well-positioned to effectively fulfill the ship-construction and support requirements of its Navy and commercial customers.

Revenues for the Marine Systems group were 19 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, 20 percent in 2009 and 21 percent in 2010. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200820092010Nuclear-powered submarines$2,579$3,173$3,587Surface combatants1,1951,2781,360Auxiliary and commercial ships1,1921,179961Repair and other services590733769Total Marine Systems$5,556$6,363$6,677



General Dynamics
Annual ReportŸ2010                        7








INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY

Our Information Systems and Technology group provides critical technologies, products and services that support a wide range of government and commercial communication and information-sharing needs. The
group consists of a three-part portfolio centered on tactical communication systems, information technology services, and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems.

Tactical communication systems– The group designs, manufactures and delivers trusted and secure communications
systems, command-and-control systems and operational hardware to customers within the U.S. Department of Defense, the intelligence community and federal civilian agencies, and to international customers. Our leadership in this market results from
decades of experience with previous systems, incumbency on today’s programs and an ongoing record of innovation that encompasses key technologies at the center of our customers’ missions. These include:



•ruggedized mobile computing solutions with embedded wireless capability;

•information assurance and encryption technologies, products, systems and services that ensure the security and integrity of digital communications
worldwide;

•digital switching, broadband networking and automated network management;

•battlespace command-and-control systems and

•fixed and mobile radio and satellite communications systems and antenna technologies.

This market is characterized by programs that enhance warfighters’ ability to communicate, collaborate and access vital
information through Internet-like networks on the battlefield. Key programs include the U.S. Army’s Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T) and the Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS).

WIN-T is the Army’s primary battlefield communications network. As the prime contractor, we are responsible for the
design, engineering, integration, production, program management and support of the network. Using ground and satellite communications links, WIN-T provides commanders with the digital communications services they need to access intelligence
information, initiate battle plans, collaborate with other military elements, issue orders and monitor the status of their forces. The group has deployed the first increment of WIN-T around the world to more than half of the U.S. Army. The group is
transitioning into the second increment of the program, which adds on-the-move command and control and expands the capability to additional soldiers. The third increment of the program is designed to provide enhanced network reliability and capacity
and smaller, more-tightly integrated communications and networking gear.

The JTRS program will provide
communications among all branches of the U.S. military on multi-channel, software-defined radios. We are developing the JTRS Handheld, Manpack, Small Form Fit (HMS) network radios to connect soldiers, sensors and robotic platforms. These small
radios will enhance dismounted soldiers’ situational awareness and combat effectiveness by giving them greater communications capabilities and access to intelligence data in the field. This critical networking capability was successfully
demonstrated by the Army during extensive testing exercises in 2010 that connected command posts, on-the-move forces and dismounted soldiers. These exercises also demonstrated how WIN-T and JTRS enable key battle command applications to
increase force effectiveness across a variety of missions and terrain.

Information Systems and Technology
delivers the same type of modern communications and information-sharing benefits to many civilian customers, including the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and other federal civilian agencies. For example, we are the prime contractor for the
U.S. Coast Guard’s Rescue 21 system, which provides enhanced search-and-rescue capabilities as well as state-of-the-art command-and-control capabilities to assist the Coast Guard in effectively deploying available assets on all maritime
missions.

We also provide many of these capabilities to non-U.S. customers, including the U.K. Ministry of
Defence and the Canadian Department of National Defence. Most recently, the U.K. Ministry of Defence awarded the group a contract for the demonstration phase of its Specialist Vehicle program. In this phase, the group will manage the design,
integration and production of seven prototypes. The Specialist Vehicle’s open electronic architecture will make the fleet easier to maintain and reduce product lifecycle costs. Work under the contract will be shared with the Combat Systems
group, including a significant portion of the future production effort.

Information technology services– The group provides mission-critical information technology (IT) and highly specialized mission-support services to the U.S. defense and intelligence communities, the Department of Homeland Security and other federal civilian agencies, and
commercial and international customers. The group specializes in:



•design, development, integration, maintenance and security of wireless and wire-line networks and enterprise infrastructure;

•mission-operations simulation and training systems and services;

•large-scale data center consolidation and modernization and

•healthcare technology solutions and services.

In this market, Information Systems and Technology has a long-standing reputation for excellence in providing
technical-support personnel and domain specialists who enable customers to execute their missions effectively. For many customers, the group’s employees are the on-call staff that provide technical support for both commercial desktop technology
and mission-specific hardware. Our employees also develop, install and operate mission systems on a day-to-day basis. In Fort Huachuca, Arizona, for example, Information Systems and Technology employees



8                        General
Dynamics Annual ReportŸ2010








provide training and IT support services for critical Army intelligence operations, including unmanned aircraft systems training units. We integrate and operate systems that create lifelike
training scenarios, helping operators improve their proficiency at a fraction of the cost of live-action exercises.

Information Systems and Technology also supplies network-modernization and IT infrastructure services to U.S. government
customers. As one of the U.S. Air Force’s leading partners for network modernization, the group has provided IT support services to more than 75 Air Force bases, and it currently supports the Air Force’s main operating bases. The group
also has provided continuous enterprise-wide IT services and support to the U.S. Senate for more than five years.

In addition, we are a leading provider of healthcare technology solutions that meet the fast-growing needs for technology
modernization of government and commercial healthcare organizations. Our offerings include data management, analytics, fraud prevention and detection software, decision support and process automation solutions. In Afghanistan and Iraq, the group
supports the Army’s military healthcare IT mission, helping ensure continuity of care for injured soldiers by providing accurate and timely information to medical staff both in the field and at treatment facilities. For the Centers for Medicare
& Medicaid Services, we are supporting the government’s implementation of healthcare reform and medical benefits programs, including facilitating a program to provide retirees with prescription health coverage.

Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems– We also provide mission-related systems development,
integration and operations support to customers in the U.S. defense, intelligence and homeland security communities, and to U.S. allies. These offerings include:



•open-architecture mission systems;

•signals and information collection, processing and distribution systems;

•design, development and integration of imagery solutions;

•sensors and cameras;

•special-purpose computing and

•cyber security services and products.

We have a 50-year legacy of providing advanced fire control systems for Navy submarine programs, and currently are developing and integrating commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) software and hardware upgrades to
improve the tactical control capabilities for multiple submarine classes. This initiative leads the implementation of the Navy's open architecture and open business model approach on submarines with a design that emphasizes shared standards,
providing greater interoperability, scalability and supplier independence. Capitalizing on this expertise and open architecture approach, the group developed the core mission system for the Navy’s Independence Class of Littoral Combat Ships
(LCS), and it is the ship mission systems integrator on the Joint High Speed Vessel (JHSV) program for the Army and the Navy.

Information Systems and Technology continues to expand its imagery offerings. For example, the group recently integrated cameras and optics with algorithms and sensors to enhance customers’ ability to
gather and interpret visual data. This group also produces the Defense Department’s most-widely used imagery-analysis software suite. This software is currently providing actionable information derived from raw intelligence and archived imagery
to more than 10,000 intelligence and tactical users.

Information Systems and Technology’s contracts in
securing and protecting organizations from network attacks have resulted in a market-leading position in cyber security. The group performs data recovery, forensic examinations and diagnostics as a prime contractor for the DoD Cyber Crime Center
(DC3), the world’s largest accredited cyber crime laboratory. It is also the principal support contractor for the Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Computer Emergency Readiness Team (US-CERT), which provides response support to and
defense against cyber attacks for U.S. executive branch agencies, and information sharing and collaboration with state and local government, industry and international partners.

The group’s diverse customer base has stimulated strong growth opportunities in each of its three principal markets,
including:



•the warfighter’s need for improved tactical communications and real-time intelligence;

•IT network and business system consolidation and modernization, and military and federal requirements for healthcare IT services and

•the growing requirements for cyber security services among homeland security, defense, intelligence and commercial customers.

Revenues for the Information Systems and Technology group were 34 percent of our consolidated
revenues in 2008 and 2009 and 36 percent in 2010. Revenues by major products and services were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200820092010Tactical communication systems$4,455$4,713$5,134Information technology services3,5363,9204,262Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance systems2,0472,1692,216Total Information Systems and Technology$10,038$10,802$11,612



General Dynamics
Annual ReportŸ2010                        9








CUSTOMERS

In 2010,
72 percent of our revenues were from the U.S. government; 10 percent were from U.S. commercial customers; 8 percent were directly from international defense customers; and the remaining 10 percent were from international commercial customers.

U.S. GOVERNMENT

Our primary customers are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. intelligence community. We have also developed relationships with other
U.S. government customers, including the Department of Homeland Security, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, National Aeronautics and Space Administration and several first-responder agencies. Our revenues from the U.S. government
were as follows:



Year Ended December 31200820092010DirectDepartment of Defense (DoD)$18,442$20,344$20,446Non-DoD1,4221,8991,941Foreign Military Sales*282478876Total U.S. government$20,146$22,721$23,263Percent of total revenues69%71%72%



*In addition to our direct international sales, we sell to foreign governments through the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program. Under the FMS program,
we contract with and are paid by the U.S. government, and the U.S. government assumes the risk of collection from the foreign government customer.

We perform our U.S. government business under fixed-price, cost-reimbursement and time-and-materials contracts. Our
production contracts are primarily fixed-price. Under these contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed amount. Contracts for research, engineering, prototypes, repair and maintenance are typically cost-reimbursement or
time-and-materials. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, the customer reimburses us for allowable costs and pays a fixed fee or an incentive- or award-based fee. These fees are determined by our ability to achieve targets set in the contract, such as
cost, quality, schedule and performance. Under time-and-materials contracts, the customer pays a fixed hourly rate for direct labor and reimburses us for materials costs.

Fixed-price contracts accounted for approximately 55 percent of our U.S. government business in both 2009 and 2010;
cost-reimbursement contracts accounted for approximately 38 percent in 2009 and 39 percent in 2010; and time-and-materials contracts accounted for approximately 7 percent in 2009 and 6 percent in 2010.

Each of these contract types presents advantages and disadvantages. Fixed-price contracts typically have higher fee levels as
we are required to absorb cost overruns, should they occur. Therefore, these types of contracts offer us additional profits if we can complete the work for less than the contract amount. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower
risk. They also can include fee schedules that allow the customer to make additional payments when we satisfy certain performance criteria. However, not all costs are reimbursed under these types of contracts, and the government carefully reviews
the costs we charge. In addition, the negotiated base fees associated with cost-reimbursement contracts are generally lower, consistent with our lower risk. Under time-and-materials contracts, our profit may vary if actual labor-hour costs vary
significantly from the negotiated rates. Additionally, because we often charge materials costs with little or no fee, the content mix can impact the profit margins associated with these contracts.

U.S. COMMERCIAL

Our U.S.
commercial revenues were $4.1 billion in 2008, $3.3 billion in 2009 and $3.2 billion in 2010. This represented approximately 14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008 and 10 percent in both 2009 and 2010. The majority of these revenues are for
business-jet aircraft where our customer base consists of individuals and public and privately held companies representing a wide range of industries. Other commercial products include drivetrain components and aftermarket parts in our Combat
Systems group, Jones Act ships in our Marine Systems group and ruggedized mobile computing solutions in our Information Systems and Technology group.

INTERNATIONAL

Our direct revenues from government and commercial customers
outside the United States were $5.1 billion in 2008 and $6 billion in both 2009 and 2010. This represented approximately 17 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, 19 percent in 2009 and 18 percent in 2010.

We conduct business with government customers around the world with primary subsidiary operations in Australia, Austria,
Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our non-U.S. defense subsidiaries are committed to developing long-term relationships with their respective governments and have distinguished themselves as
principal regional suppliers and employers.

Our international commercial business consists primarily of
business-jet aircraft exports and worldwide aircraft services. The market for business-jet aircraft and related services outside North America has expanded significantly in recent years, particularly in emerging markets, including the Asia-Pacific
region. While the United States continues to be our largest market for business aircraft, orders from customers outside North America represent a growing segment of our aircraft business, approximately 60 percent of total orders and backlog in 2010.



10                        General
Dynamics Annual ReportŸ2010










For a discussion of the risks associated with conducting business in international locations,
see Risk Factors contained in Part I, Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding sales and assets by geographic region, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.

COMPETITION

Several factors determine our ability to compete successfully in both the defense and business-jet aircraft markets. While customers’ evaluation criteria vary, the principal competitive elements
include:



•the technical excellence, reliability and cost competitiveness of our products and services;

•our ability to innovate and develop new products and technology that improve mission performance;

•successful program execution and on-time delivery of complex, integrated systems;

•our global footprint and accessibility to customers;

•our indigenous presence in the countries of several key customers;

•the reputation and customer confidence derived from our past performance and

•the successful management of our businesses and customer relationships.

DEFENSE MARKET

The U.S. government contracts with numerous domestic and foreign
companies for products and services. We compete against other large platform and system-integration contractors, as well as smaller companies that specialize in a particular technology or capability. Internationally, we compete with global defense
contractors’ exports and the offerings of private and state-owned defense manufacturers based in the countries where we operate. Our Combat Systems group competes with a large number of domestic and foreign businesses. Our Marine Systems group
has one primary competitor, Northrop Grumman Corporation, with which it also partners or subcontracts on several programs, including the Virginia-class submarine. Our Information Systems and Technology group competes with many companies, from large
defense companies to small niche competitors with specialized technologies. The operating cycle of many of our major platform programs can result in sustained periods of program continuity when we perform successfully.

We also are involved in teaming and subcontracting relationships with some of our competitors. Competitions for major defense
programs often require companies to form teams to bring together broad capabilities to meet the customer’s requirements. Opportunities associated with these programs include roles as the program’s integrator, overseeing and coordinating
the efforts of all participants in the team, or as a provider of a specific hardware, such as military vehicles provided by Combat Systems, or a subsystem element, such as core mission systems provided by Information Systems and Technology.

Another competitive factor in the defense market is the U.S. government’s use of multiple-award indefinite
delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts to provide customers with flexible procurement options. IDIQ contracts allow the government to select a group of eligible contractors for a program and establish an overall spending limit. When the
government awards IDIQ contracts to multiple bidders under the same program, we must compete to be selected as a participant in the program and subsequently compete for individual delivery orders. This contracting model is most common among our
Information Systems and Technology group’s customers but is also being used in programs for which our Combat Systems group competes.

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT MARKET

The business-jet aircraft manufacturing market is divided into segments based on aircraft range, price and cabin size. Gulfstream has several
competitors for each of its products, with more competitors for the shorter-range aircraft. Key competitive factors include aircraft safety, reliability and performance; comfort and in-flight productivity; service quality, global footprint and
timeliness; technological and new-product innovation; and price. We believe Gulfstream competes effectively in all of these areas.

The Aerospace group competes worldwide in its business-jet aircraft services business primarily on the basis of price, service quality and timeliness. In its maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) and
fixed-base operations (FBO) business, the group competes with several other large companies, as well as a number of smaller companies, particularly in the maintenance business. In its completions business, the group competes with original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs), as well as other third-party providers.



General Dynamics
Annual ReportŸ2010                        11










BACKLOG

Our total backlog represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be performed under firm contracts and includes funded and
unfunded portions. For additional discussion of backlog, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Part II, Item 7, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Summary backlog information for each of our business groups follows:



2010 TotalBacklog NotExpected to beCompleted inDecember 31200920102011FundedUnfundedTotalFundedUnfundedTotalAerospace$18,891$433$19,324$17,443$378$17,821$13,781Combat Systems11,4311,98513,41610,90889211,8004,486Marine Systems7,11115,36222,4737,05013,06920,11914,398Information Systems and Technology8,4231,90910,3327,9781,8439,8212,980Total backlog$45,856$19,689$65,545$43,379$16,182$59,561$35,645

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

To foster innovative product development and
evolution, we conduct sustained R&D activities as part of our normal business operations. In the commercial sector, most of our Aerospace group’s R&D activities support Gulfstream’s product enhancement and development programs. In
our defense businesses, we conduct both customer-sponsored R&D activities under U.S. government contracts and company-sponsored R&D. In accordance with government regulations, we recover a significant portion of company-sponsored R&D
expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. government contracts. For more information on our R&D activities, including our expenditures for the past three years, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II,
Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We develop technology, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary
intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. government holds licenses to our patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the
inventions covered by our patents. Although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would,
in our opinion, have a material impact on our business.

EMPLOYEES

On December 31, 2010, we had approximately 90,000 employees, one-fifth of whom work under collective agreements with various labor
unions and worker representatives. Agreements covering approximately 3 percent of total employees are due to expire during 2011. Historically, we have renegotiated labor agreements without any significant disruption of operating activities.

RAW MATERIALS, SUPPLIERS AND SEASONALITY

We depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials and components. These supply networks can experience price fluctuations and capacity constraints, which can put pressure on pricing. Effective
management and oversight of suppliers and subcontractors is an important element of our successful performance. We attempt to mitigate these risks through long-term agreements with our suppliers, by negotiating flexible pricing terms in our customer
contracts and by procuring from our suppliers jointly across our business groups to achieve economies of scale. We have not experienced, and do not foresee, significant difficulties in obtaining the materials, components or supplies necessary for
our business operations.

Our business is not generally seasonal in nature. The timing of contract awards, the
availability of funding from the customer, the incurrence of contract costs and unit deliveries are the primary drivers of our revenue recognition. In the United States, these factors are influenced by the federal government’s
October-to-September fiscal year. This process has historically resulted in higher revenues in the latter half of the year. Internationally, many of our government customers schedule deliveries toward the end of the calendar year, resulting in
increasing revenues and earnings over the course of the year.



12                        General
Dynamics Annual ReportŸ2010










REGULATORY MATTERS

U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

U.S. government contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the Cost Accounting
Standards (CAS) govern the majority of our contracts. The FAR mandates uniform policies and procedures for U.S. government acquisitions and purchased services. Also, individual agencies can have acquisition regulations that provide implementing
language for the FAR or that supplement the FAR. For example, the Department of Defense implements the FAR through the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation supplement (DFARs). For all federal government entities, the FAR regulates the phases of
any product or service acquisition, including:



•acquisition planning,

•competition requirements,

•contractor qualifications,

•protection of source selection and vendor information and

•acquisition procedures.

In addition, the FAR addresses the allowability of our costs, while the CAS address how those costs can be allocated to contracts. The FAR also subjects us to audits and other government reviews covering
issues such as cost, performance and accounting practices relating to our contracts.

INTERNATIONAL

Our international sales are subject to the applicable foreign government regulations and procurement policies and practices, as well as
certain U.S. policies and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). We are also subject to regulations governing investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and import-export control, including the International
Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).

BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT

The Aerospace group is subject to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulation in the United States and other similar aviation regulatory authorities internationally, including the European Aviation
Safety Agency (EASA). For an aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must receive a type certificate from the appropriate aviation authority, and each aircraft must receive a certificate of airworthiness. Aircraft completions also require
approval by the appropriate aviation authority, which often is accomplished through a supplemental type certificate. Aviation authorities can require changes to a specific aircraft or model type for safety reasons if they believe the aircraft does
not meet their standards. Maintenance facilities and charter operations must be licensed by aviation authorities as well.

ENVIRONMENTAL

We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and
regulations cover the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of some materials, substances and wastes. We are directly or indirectly involved in environmental investigations or remediation at some of our current and
former facilities and at third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. As a PRP, we potentially are liable to
the government or third parties for the full cost of remediating contamination at a relevant site. In cases where we have been designated a PRP, generally we seek to mitigate these environmental liabilities through available insurance coverage and
by pursuing appropriate cost-recovery actions. In the unlikely event we are required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the current statutory framework would allow us to pursue contributions from other PRPs. We regularly assess our compliance
status and management of environmental matters.

Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental
compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. Historically, these costs have not been material. Environmental costs often are allowable and recoverable under our contracts with the U.S. government.
Based on information currently available and current U.S. government policies relating to allowable costs, we do not expect continued compliance with environmental regulations to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial
condition or cash flows. For additional information relating to the impact of environmental matters, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

We file several types of reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These reports and information include an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements. Free copies of these items are made
available on our website (www.generaldynamics.com) as soon as practicable and through the General Dynamics investor relations office at (703) 876-3152.

These items also can be read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling
the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.



General Dynamics
Annual ReportŸ2010                        13








