Item 1. Business

Overview

We
are a global financial services firm that, through our subsidiaries and affiliates, advises, and originates, trades, manages and distributes capital for, governments, institutions and individuals. We were originally incorporated under the laws of
the State of Delaware in 1981, and our predecessor companies date back to 1924. We are an FHC regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended
(“BHC Act”). We conduct our business from our headquarters in and around New York City, our regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and our principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. As of
December 31, 2018, we had 60,348 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” the “Firm,” “us,” “we,” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley (the “Parent
Company”) together with its consolidated subsidiaries. We define the following as part of our consolidated financial statements (“financial statements”): consolidated income statements (“income statements”), consolidated
balance sheets (“balance sheets”), and consolidated cash flow statements (“cash flow statements”). See the “Glossary of Common Acronyms” for the definition of certain acronyms used throughout the 2018 Form

10-K.

Financial information concerning us, our business segments and geographic regions for each of the
12 months ended December 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 is included in the financial statements and the notes thereto and in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Business Segments

We are a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of our business segments—Institutional
Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we provide a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments,
financial institutions and individuals. Additional information related to our business segments, respective clients, and products and services provided is included under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.”

Competition

All aspects of our businesses are highly competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete in the U.S. and globally for clients, market
share and human talent. Operating within the financial services industry on a global basis

presents, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for us to remain competitive. Our
competitive position depends on our reputation and the quality and consistency of our long-term investment performance. Our ability to sustain or improve our competitive position also depends substantially on our ability to continue to attract and
retain highly qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. We compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, exchanges, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of
mutual funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, energy companies, financial technology firms and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the U.S., globally and digitally or through the internet. In addition, restrictive laws
and regulations applicable to certain U.S. financial services institutions, such as Morgan Stanley, which may prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions and impose more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, can put us at a competitive
disadvantage to competitors in certain businesses not subject to these same requirements. See also “Supervision and Regulation” herein and “Risk Factors.”

Institutional Securities and Wealth Management

Our competitive position for our Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments depends on innovation, execution capability
and relative pricing. We compete directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis. Additionally, there is increased competition driven by
established firms as well as the emergence of new firms and business models (including innovative uses of technology) competing for the same clients and assets or offering similar products and services.

Our ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by our credit ratings), to commit and to deploy capital
efficiently, particularly in our capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects our competitive position. Corporate clients may request that we provide loans or lending commitments in
connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to continue.

It is possible that competition may
become even more intense as we continue to compete with financial or other institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain geographies or products. Many of these
firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services, and on different platforms, that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on our businesses. In addition, our business is subject to extensive
regulation in the



U.S. and abroad, while certain of our competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage.

We continue to experience intense price competition in some of our businesses. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades
electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and comparable fees. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional trading
moves to more automated platforms. It is also possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or
pricing).

Investment Management

Our ability to compete successfully in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including our reputation, investment
objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and appropriate benchmark indices, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to
distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. Our investment products, including alternative investment products, may compete with investments offered by other investment managers with passive
investment products or who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us.

Supervision and Regulation

As a major financial services firm, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and
securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. Legislative and regulatory responses to the 2007-2008 financial crisis, both in the U.S. and worldwide, have resulted in major changes
to the way we are regulated and conduct our business. These laws and regulations include: the Dodd-Frank Act; risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted or being developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel
Committee”), including Basel III, and the national implementation of those standards; capital planning and stress testing requirements; and new recovery and resolution regimes in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. Some areas of post-financial
crisis regulation are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods.

We continue to monitor the changing political, tax and
regulatory environment; it is likely that there will be further changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which we operate,

although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period and we
expect to remain subject to extensive supervision and regulation.

Financial Holding Company

Consolidated Supervision.

We have operated as a BHC and FHC under the BHC Act since September 2008. As a BHC, we
are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of our subsidiaries. In
particular, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things): significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision; intensive scrutiny of our businesses and plans for expansion of those businesses; limitations on activities; a
systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements; restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the BHC Act added by the Dodd-Frank Act referred to as the “Volcker Rule”; and
comprehensive derivatives regulation. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over us and our subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent
applicable.

Scope of Permitted Activities.

The BHC Act limits the activities of BHCs and FHCs and grants
the Federal Reserve authority to limit our ability to conduct activities. We must obtain the Federal Reserve’s approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the U.S. and internationally.

The BHC Act grandfathers “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,”
provided that we were engaged in “any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the U.S.” and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. We currently engage in our commodities
activities pursuant to the BHC Act grandfather exemption as well as other authorities under the BHC Act.

Activities Restrictions under
the Volcker Rule.

The Volcker Rule prohibits “banking entities,” including us and our affiliates, from engaging in certain “proprietary trading” activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to
exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with “covered funds,” with a
number of exemptions and exclusions. Banking entities were required to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015, subject to certain



extensions. In June 2017, the Federal Reserve approved our application for a five-year extension of the transition period to conform investments in certain legacy covered funds that are also
illiquid funds. The approval covers essentially all of our

non-conforming

investments in, and relationships with, legacy covered funds subject to the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule also requires that
deductions be made from a BHC’s Tier 1 capital for permissible investments in covered funds. In addition, the Volcker Rule requires banking entities to have comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance
with the Volcker Rule.

The federal financial regulatory agencies responsible for the Volcker Rule’s implementing regulations have
proposed, but have not yet finalized, revisions to certain elements of those regulations. The proposed changes focus on proprietary trading and certain requirements imposed in connection with permitted market making, underwriting and risk-mitigating
hedging activities. The impact of this proposal on us will not be known with certainty until final rules are issued.

Capital
Standards.

The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements, including well-capitalized standards, for large BHCs and evaluates our compliance with such requirements. The OCC establishes similar capital requirements
and standards for Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (“MSBNA”) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (“MSPBNA”) (collectively, our “U.S. Bank Subsidiaries”).

Regulatory Capital Framework.

The regulatory capital requirements for us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are
largely based on the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee, as supplemented by certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. We are subject to various risk-based capital requirements with various transition provisions, measured
against our Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital bases, leverage-based capital requirements, including the SLR, and additional capital buffers above generally applicable minimum standards for BHCs.

The Basel Committee has published a comprehensive set of revisions to its Basel III Framework. The revised requirements are expected to take
effect starting January 2022, subject to U.S. banking agencies issuing implementation proposals. The impact on us of any revisions to the Basel Committee’s capital standards is uncertain and depends on future rulemakings by the U.S.
banking agencies.

Regulated Subsidiaries.

In addition, many of our regulated subsidiaries are, or are expected to be in
the future, subject to regulatory capital requirements, including regulated subsidiaries registered as “swap dealers” with the CFTC or “security-based swap dealers” with the SEC (collectively,

“Swaps Entities”) or registered as broker-dealers or futures commission merchants. Specific regulatory capital requirements vary by regulated subsidiary, and in many cases these
standards are not yet established or are subject to ongoing rulemakings that could substantially modify requirements.

For more
information about the specific capital requirements applicable to us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital
Resources—Regulatory Requirements.”

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Capital
Distributions.

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large BHCs, including Morgan Stanley. For more information about the capital planning and
stress test requirements, including proposed changes to those requirements that would integrate them with certain ongoing regulatory capital requirements, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Regulatory Developments—Proposed Stress Buffer
Requirements.”

In addition to capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve, the OCC and the FDIC have the authority to
prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice
in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to our U.S. Bank
Subsidiaries under circumstances which we would not otherwise decide to do so.

Liquidity Standards.

In
addition to capital regulations, the U.S. banking agencies and the Basel Committee have adopted, or are in the process of adopting, liquidity standards. We and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to the U.S. banking agencies’ LCR
requirements, which generally follow Basel Committee standards. Similarly, if the proposed NSFR requirements are adopted by the U.S. banking agencies, we and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries will become subject to NSFR requirements, which generally follow
Basel Committee standards.

In addition to the LCR and NSFR, we and many of our regulated subsidiaries, including those registered as
Swaps Entities with the CFTC or SEC, are, or are expected to be in the future, subject to other liquidity standards, including liquidity stress-testing and associated liquidity reserve requirements.



For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Liquidity Framework.”

Systemic Risk
Regime.

The Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (“EGRRCPA”), establishes a systemic risk regime to which certain large BHCs, including Morgan Stanley,
are subject. Under rules issued by the Federal Reserve to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act’s enhanced prudential standards, such large BHCs must conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid
assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk management requirements. These large BHCs also must comply with a range of risk
management and corporate governance requirements.

The Federal Reserve has adopted a framework to impose single-counterparty credit limits
(“SCCL”) for large banking organizations. U.S.

G-SIBs,

including us, are subject to a limit of 15% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any “major counterparty” (defined
to include other U.S.

G-SIBs,

foreign

G-SIBs,

and nonbank systemically important financial institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve). In addition, we are subject
to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for aggregate net credit exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty. We must comply with the SCCL framework beginning on January 1, 2020.

The Federal Reserve has proposed rules that would create a new early remediation framework to address financial distress or material
management weaknesses. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish additional prudential standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and limits on short-term debt, including

off-balance

sheet exposures. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements—Total
Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt Requirement.”

Under the systemic risk regime, if the Federal Reserve or the Financial
Stability Oversight Council determines that a BHC with $250 billion or more in consolidated assets poses a “grave threat” to U.S. financial stability, the institution may be, among other things, restricted in its ability to merge or
offer financial products and/or required to terminate activities and dispose of assets.

See also “Capital Standards” and
“Liquidity Standards” herein and “Resolution and Recovery Planning” below.

Resolution and Recovery Planning.

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to
periodically submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of our material financial distress or failure. Our preferred
resolution strategy, which is set out in our 2017 resolution plan, is an SPOE strategy. An SPOE strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the Parent Company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such
subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy after the Parent Company has filed for bankruptcy.

Certain
of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example the FDIC requires certain insured depository institutions (“IDIs”),
including our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, to submit an annual resolution plan that describes the IDI’s strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of the IDI (an “IDI plan”).

Further, we are required to submit an annual recovery plan to the Federal Reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time
to generate or conserve financial resources in times of prolonged financial stress.

In December 2018, the OCC finalized revisions to its
recovery planning guidelines for national banks and certain other institutions that increase the threshold at which the guidelines apply from $50 billion to $250 billion in total consolidated assets. As a result, our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries
are no longer required to prepare recovery plans.

In addition, certain financial companies, including BHCs such as the Firm and certain
of its covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act with the FDIC being appointed as receiver, provided that certain procedures are met, including certain
extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations by the U.S. Treasury Secretary in consultation with the U.S. President. The orderly liquidation authority rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and
others not yet proposed. If we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would have considerable powers, including: the power to remove directors and officers responsible for our failure and to appoint new directors and officers;
the power to assign our assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; the ability to differentiate among our creditors, including by treating certain creditors within
the same class better than others, subject to a minimum recovery right on the part of disfavored creditors to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy



liquidation; and broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. The FDIC has been developing an SPOE strategy that could be used to
implement the orderly liquidation authority.

Regulators have also taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an SPOE strategy under
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes.

For example, the Federal Reserve has established
rules that impose contractual requirements on certain qualified financial contracts (“covered QFCs”) to which U.S.

G-SIBs,

including us, and their subsidiaries are parties. The OCC has also
established rules that impose substantively identical requirements on national banks that are subsidiaries of U.S.

G-SIBs,

including our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, as well as certain other institutions (together
with the entities covered by the Federal Reserve’s rules, the “covered entities”). Under these rules, covered QFCs must expressly provide that transfer restrictions and default rights against covered entities are limited to the same
extent as they would be under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act and their implementing regulations. In addition, covered QFCs may not, among other things, permit the exercise of any cross-default right against
covered entities based on an affiliate’s entry into insolvency, resolution or similar proceedings, subject to certain creditor protections. There is a

phased-in

compliance schedule based on counterparty
type, and the first compliance date was January 1, 2019.

For more information about our resolution plan-related submissions and
associated regulatory actions, see “Risk Factors—Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk”, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Regulatory Requirements—Total
Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding Company Requirements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory
Requirements—Resolution and Recovery Planning.”

Cyber and Information Security Risk Management

As a general matter, the financial services industry faces increased global regulatory focus regarding cyber and information security risk
management practices. Many aspects of our businesses are subject to cybersecurity legal and regulatory requirements enacted by U.S. federal and state governments and other

non-U.S.

jurisdictions in the
Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia. These laws are aimed at codifying basic cybersecurity protections and mandating data breach notification requirements.

Our businesses are also subject to privacy and data protection information security legal
requirements concerning the use and protection of certain personal information. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) became effective in the E.U. on May 25, 2018 as a replacement for the E.U. Data Protection
Directive. The GDPR imposes mandatory breach notification obligations, including significant fines for noncompliance, enhanced governance and accountability requirements and has extraterritorial impact. In addition, other jurisdictions have adopted
or are proposing GDPR or similar standards, such as California, Australia, Singapore, Japan, Colombia, Argentina, India, Turkey, Hong Kong, Brazil, Russia and Switzerland.

Protection of Client Information

Many aspects of our businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information. These
include those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the GDPR and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information Protection Law, the Hong Kong Personal
Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. We have adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.

MSBNA, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain
retail securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products, and also conducts certain foreign exchange activities.

MSPBNA
offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products, including retail securities-based lending products, primarily for customers of our affiliate retail broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC (“MSSB LLC”). MSPBNA also offers
certain deposit products and prime brokerage custody services.

Both MSBNA and MSPBNA are FDIC-insured national banks subject to
supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. They are both subject to the OCC’s risk governance guidelines, which establish heightened standards for a large national bank’s risk governance framework and the oversight of that
framework by the bank’s board of directors.

Prompt Corrective Action.

The Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal
banking regulator to take prompt corrective action



with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. These regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as MSBNA or
MSPBNA and not to their parent holding companies. The Federal Reserve is, however, separately authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, subject to certain limitations. Under the systemic risk regime, as described above, we
also would become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. In addition, BHCs, such as Morgan Stanley, are required to serve as a source of strength to their U.S. bank subsidiaries and commit resources to support
these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress.

Transactions with
Affiliates.

Our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on “covered transactions” with any affiliates. Covered transactions include any
extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions by insured banks with an affiliate. These restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries may have to any one affiliate and to all
affiliates. Sections 23A and 23B also set collateral requirements and require all such transactions to be made on market terms. Derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and their
affiliates are subject to these restrictions. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will propose a rulemaking to implement changes to these restrictions made by the Dodd-Frank Act.

In addition, the Volcker Rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) us or any of our affiliates and (ii) covered
funds for which we or any of our affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, or other covered funds organized and offered by us or any of our affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions in the
Volcker Rule. See also “Financial Holding Company—Activities Restriction under the Volcker Rule” above.

FDIC
Regulation.

An FDIC-insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control
by the same BHC. As commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions, each of MSBNA and MSPBNA could be responsible for any loss to the FDIC from the failure of the other. In addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of
FDIC insurance.

Institutional Securities and Wealth Management

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation.

Our primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Morgan
Stanley & Co. LLC (“MS&Co.”) and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of

Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including FINRA, and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations.
Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, capital
structure, risk management controls in connection with market access, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities
administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of

cease-and-desist

orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or
employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protections for customers of
broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer.

MSSB LLC is also a registered investment adviser with
the SEC. MSSB LLC’s relationship with its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder as well as various state securities laws. These laws and regulations generally grant the SEC and other supervisory bodies broad administrative powers to address

non-compliance,

including the power
to restrict or limit MSSB LLC from carrying on its investment advisory and other asset management activities. Other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for
specified periods of time or for specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines.

The
Firm is subject to various regulations that affect broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC is authorized to impose a fiduciary duty rule applicable to broker-dealers when providing
personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers. The SEC released for public comment a package of proposed rulemaking on the standards of conduct and required disclosures for broker-dealers and investment advisers. One of the
proposals, entitled “Regulation Best Interest,” would require broker-dealers to act in the “best interest” of retail customers at the time a recommendation is made without placing the financial or other interests of the
broker-dealer ahead of the interest of the retail customer. Additionally, the SEC proposed a new requirement for both broker-dealers and investment advisers to provide a brief



relationship summary to retail investors with information intended to clarify the relationship between the parties. The SEC issued a proposed interpretation regarding the fiduciary duty that
investment advisers owe their clients. None of these proposals have yet been finalized.

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by
the Federal Reserve’s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other
margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, our broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules.

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements
of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. These rules are generally designed to measure the broker-dealer subsidiary’s general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum
amount of net and/or liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also “Financial Holding Company—Consolidated Supervision” and “Financial Holding Company—Liquidity Standards” above. Rules of FINRA and other
self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets.

Research.

Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions, including in the U.S., where
FINRA has adopted rules that cover research relating to both equity and debt securities. In addition, European regulators have introduced new requirements in the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (“MiFID II”) relating to the
unbundling of research services and execution services. Both U.S. and

non-U.S.

regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest and may impose additional regulations.

Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities.

MS&Co., as a futures commission
merchant, and MSSB LLC, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and certain of their activities are regulated by, the CFTC, the NFA, CME Group, and various commodity futures exchanges. MS&Co. and MSSB LLC and
certain of their affiliates are registered members of the NFA in various capacities. Rules and regulations of the CFTC, NFA and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other things, customer protections, the segregation of
customer funds and the holding of secured amounts, the use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants and introducing brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and
discretionary trading.

Our commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities,
environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted
in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged.

Derivatives Regulation.

Under the U.S. regulatory regime for “swaps” and “security-based
swaps” (collectively, “Swaps”) implemented pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are subject to regulations including, among others, public and regulatory reporting, central clearing and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or
execution facilities for certain types of Swaps. The CFTC has completed the majority of its regulations in this area, most of which are in effect. The SEC has also finalized many of its Swaps regulations, although a significant number are not yet in
effect. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the registration of “swap dealers” with the CFTC and “security-based swap dealers” with the SEC. Certain of our subsidiaries have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers and will in the
future be required to register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers. Such Swaps Entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the Swaps activities for which they are registered, including
capital requirements, margin requirements for uncleared Swaps and comprehensive business conduct rules. Each of the CFTC and SEC have proposed rules to impose capital standards on Swaps Entities subject to its respective jurisdiction, which include
our subsidiaries, but these rules have not yet been finalized.

The specific parameters of some of these requirements for Swaps have been
and continue to be developed through the CFTC, SEC and bank regulator rulemakings. In 2015, the federal banking regulators and the CFTC separately issued final rules establishing uncleared swap margin requirements for Swaps Entities subject to their
respective regulation, including MSBNA, Morgan Stanley Capital Services LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (“MSIP”), respectively. The variation margin requirements under these rules were effective as of March 1,
2017. The rules

phase-in

initial margin requirements from September 1, 2016 through September 1, 2020, depending on the level of OTC derivatives activity of the swap dealer and the relevant
counterparty. Margin rules with the same or similar compliance dates have been adopted or are in the process of being finalized by regulators outside the U.S., and certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to such rules.

Although important areas within the global derivatives regulatory framework have been finalized in recent years, additional



changes are expected. For example, in November 2018, the CFTC proposed revisions to the rules governing swap execution facilities. As the derivatives regulatory framework evolves, we expect to
continue to face increased costs and regulatory oversight. Complying with registration and other regulatory requirements has required, and is expected to require in the future, systems and other changes. Compliance with Swaps-related regulatory
capital requirements may also require us to devote more capital to our Swaps business.

Our Institutional Securities and Wealth Management
business segment activities are also regulated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. See

“Non-U.S.

Regulation” herein.

Investment Management

Many of the subsidiaries engaged in our asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Many aspects of our
asset management activities are also subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers,
including the power to limit or restrict us from carrying on our asset management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual
employees, limitations on our engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. In order to facilitate our asset
management business, a U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary of ours, Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc., acts as distributor to the Morgan Stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by our Investment Management
business segment.

Our asset management activities are subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to,
additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds) and restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, “covered funds,” as defined in
the Volcker Rule, subject to certain limited exemptions. Many of these requirements have increased the expenses associated with our asset management activities and/or reduced the investment returns we are able to generate for us and our asset
management clients. See also “Financial Holding Company—Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule.”

In addition,
certain of our affiliates are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance, and have certain responsibilities
with respect to each pool they advise. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the

commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. See also
“Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation,” “Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities,” and
“Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Derivatives Regulation” above and

“Non-U.S.

Regulation,” below for a discussion of other regulations that impact our Investment
Management business activities, including MiFID II.

Our Investment Management business activities are also regulated outside the U.S. For
example, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) is the primary regulator of our business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates our business in Japan; the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong regulates our
business in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates our business in Singapore. See also

“Non-U.S.

Regulation” herein.

Non-U.S.

Regulation

All of our businesses are regulated extensively by

non-U.S.

regulators, including governments,
securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. Certain regulators have prudential, conduct and other authority over us
or our subsidiaries, as well as powers to limit or restrict us from engaging in certain businesses or to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censures, fines, the issuance of

cease-and-desist

orders, or the suspension or expulsion of a regulated entity or its affiliates.

Some of our subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers and other regulated entity types under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they
operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance,
the PRA, the FCA and several securities and futures exchanges in the U.K., including the London Stock Exchange and ICE Futures Europe, regulate our activities in the U.K.; the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal
Financial Supervisory Authority) and the Deutsche Börse AG regulate our activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japan Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities
and futures exchanges and ministries regulate our activities in Japan; the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate our operations in Hong Kong; and
the



Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate our business in Singapore.

Our largest

non-U.S.

entity, MSIP, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the PRA,
which has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards applicable to MSIP that seek to ensure its safety and soundness and to minimize adverse effects on the stability of the U.K. financial system. MSIP is also regulated and
supervised by the FCA with respect to business conduct matters.

Non-U.S.

policymakers and
regulators, including the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities (among others, the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority), continue to propose and adopt numerous reforms, including those that
may further impact the structure of banks or subject us to new prudential requirements, and to formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to our European operations.

In November 2016, the European Commission published a package of proposals including various risk reduction measures. These include proposed
amendments to the Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation providing updates to risk-based capital, liquidity, leverage and other prudential standards on a consolidated basis, consistent with final Basel standards. In addition, the proposals
would require certain large,

non-E.U.

financial groups with two or more institutions established in the E.U. to establish an E.U. IHC. The proposals would require E.U. banks and broker-dealers to be held below
the E.U. IHC; until more specific regulations are proposed, it remains unclear which other E.U. entities would need to be held beneath the E.U. IHC. The E.U. IHC would be subject to direct supervision and authorization by the European Central Bank
or the relevant national E.U. regulator. Further amendments were also proposed to the E.U. bank recovery and resolution regime under the E.U. Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (“BRRD”). It is expected that the proposals will be
adopted in early 2019, however their final form, as well as the date of their adoption, is not yet certain.

The amendments to the BRRD
build on previous proposals by regulators in the U.K., E.U. and other major jurisdictions to finalize recovery and resolution planning frameworks and related regulatory requirements that will apply to certain of our subsidiaries that operate in
those jurisdictions. For instance, the BRRD established a recovery and resolution framework for E.U. credit institutions and investment firms, including MSIP. In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the U.K. and other E.U. jurisdictions, have
implemented, or are in the process of implementing, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity organized in such jurisdictions by

writing down certain unsecured liabilities or converting certain unsecured liabilities into equity.

Regulators in the U.K., E.U. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized other regulatory standards applicable to certain of our
subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. For instance, the European Market Infrastructure Regulation introduced new requirements regarding the central clearing and reporting of derivatives, as well as margin requirements for uncleared
derivatives. MiFID II, which took effect on January 3, 2018, introduced comprehensive and new trading and market infrastructure reforms in the E.U., including new trading venues, enhancements to

pre-

and
post-trading transparency, and additional investor protection requirements, among others. We have had to make extensive changes to our operations, including systems and controls in order to comply with MiFID II.

Financial Crimes Program

Our Financial Crimes program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis and supports our financial crime prevention efforts across all regions
and business units with responsibility for governance, oversight and execution of our AML, economic sanctions (“Sanctions”) and anti-corruption programs.

In the U.S., the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to
detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, BHCs and their subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement AML programs, verify the
identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of
financial institutions to implement AML programs.

We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to
comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. Regarding Sanctions, we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S.
Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which target foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to U.S. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and to comply, as applicable,
with similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral organizations such as the United Nations Security Council and the E.U. Council.

We are also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, in the
jurisdictions in which we operate. Anti-corruption



laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence
official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations.

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their age and titles as of February 26, 2019 are set forth below. Business experience is provided
in accordance with SEC rules.

Jeffrey S. Brodsky (54)

.    Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources
Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2016). Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources (January 2011 to December 2015).

Co-Head

of Human Resources (January 2010 to December 2011). Head of Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney Human Resources (June 2009 to January 2010).

James P. Gorman (60)

.    Chairman of the
Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). President and Chief Executive Officer (January 2010 to December 2011) and member of the Board of Directors (since January 2010).

Co-President

(December 2007 to December 2009) and

Co-Head

of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer of Wealth
Management (February 2006 to April 2008).

Eric F. Grossman (52)

.    Executive Vice President and Chief Legal
Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). Global Head of Legal (September 2010 to January 2012). Global Head of Litigation (January 2006 to September 2010) and General Counsel of the Americas (May 2009 to September 2010). General Counsel of
Wealth Management (November 2008 to September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP (June 2001 to December 2005).

Keishi Hotsuki (56)

.    Executive Vice President (since May 2014) and
Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2011). Interim Chief Risk Officer (January 2011 to May 2011) and Head of Market Risk Department (March 2008 to April 2014). Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (since May
2010). Global Head of Market Risk Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007).

Colm Kelleher
(61)

.    President of Morgan Stanley (since January 2016). Executive Vice President (October 2007 to January 2016). President of Institutional Securities (January 2013 to January 2016). Head of International (January 2011 to
January 2016).

Co-President

of Institutional Securities (January 2010 to December 2012). Chief Financial Officer and

Co-Head

of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to
December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007).

Co-Head

of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006). Director of Norfolk Southern Corporation (since January 2019).

Jonathan M. Pruzan (50)

.    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2015)
and Head of Corporate Strategy (since December 2016).

Co-Head

of Global Financial Institutions Group (January 2010 to April 2015).

Co-Head

of North American Financial
Institutions Group M&A (September 2007 to December 2009). Head of the U.S. Bank Group (April 2005 to August 2007).

Daniel A.
Simkowitz (53)

.    Head of Investment Management of Morgan Stanley (since October 2015).

Co-Head

of Global Capital Markets (March 2013 to September 2015). Chairman of Global Capital
Markets (November 2009 to March 2013). Managing Director in Global Capital Markets (December 2000 to November 2009).