10-K


f87871e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission File Number 001-13545

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter)

(415) 394-9000

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including
Area Code)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:

Common Stock, $.01 par value

8 1/2 Series A Cumulative

Redeemable Preferred Stock

(Title of Class)

New York Stock Exchange

(Name of Exchange on Which
    Registered)

Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant:
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past
90 days.    Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is
an accelerated filer (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).    Yes

þ

No

o

The aggregate market value of common shares held
by non-affiliates of the registrant (based upon the closing sale
price on the New York Stock Exchange) on June 30, 2002, was
$2,595,016,448.

As of March 10, 2003, there were 80,935,750
shares of the Registrant’s common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III incorporates by reference the
Registrant’s Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of
Stockholders which the Registrant anticipates will be filed no
later than 120 days after the end of its fiscal year
pursuant to Regulation 14A.

PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation,
acquires, develops and operates industrial property in key
distribution markets throughout North America, in Europe and in
Asia. We commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate
company effective with the completion of our initial public
offering on November 26, 1997. Increasingly, our properties
are designed for customers who value the efficient movement of
goods in the world’s busiest distribution markets: large,
supply-constrained locations with close proximity to airports,
seaports and major freeway systems. We currently serve 2,550
customers in a portfolio (owned, managed or under development)
totaling 992 buildings, encompassing approximately
94.6 million square feet (8.8 million square meters),
in 30 global markets.

Through our subsidiary, AMB Property, L.P., a
Delaware limited partnership, we are engaged in the acquisition,
ownership, operation, management, renovation, expansion and
development of primarily industrial properties in target markets
in North America, in Europe and in Asia. We refer to AMB
Property, L.P. as the “operating partnership.” As of
December 31, 2002, we owned an approximate 94.5% general
partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding
preferred units. As the sole general partner of the operating
partnership, we have the full, exclusive and complete
responsibility and discretion in the day-to-day management and
control of the operating partnership. Unless the context
otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “us” and
“our” refer to AMB Property Corporation, the operating
partnership and their other controlled subsidiaries, and the
references to AMB Property Corporation include the operating
partnership and their other controlled subsidiaries.

Our investment strategy targets customers whose
businesses are growing at a faster rate than world gross
domestic product (GDP) — specifically,
participants in global trade. To serve the facilities needs of
these customers, we invest in major markets: transportation hubs
and gateways in the U.S., and targeted distribution and airport
markets internationally. Our target markets are characterized by
large population densities and typically offer substantial
consumer bases, proximity to large clusters of
distribution-facility users and significant labor pools. When
measured by annual base rents, approximately 70% of these assets
are concentrated in eight U.S. hub and gateway distribution
markets: Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles,
Northern New Jersey/ New York City, San Francisco Bay Area,
Miami and Seattle.

By focusing on an investment strategy that
benefits from high customer demand and limited competition from
new supply, we believe that over time net operating income will
grow and our property values will increase. We work to implement
this strategy by investing in locations that have geographic or
regulatory supply constraints, high barriers to entry and close
proximity to large population centers, and in buildings with
customer-preferred characteristics.

Our portfolio is comprised of strategically
located industrial buildings in in-fill submarkets; in-fill
locations are characterized by supply constraints on the
availability of land for competing projects as well as physical,
political or economic barriers to new development. A substantial
majority of our owned or managed buildings function as High
Throughput Distribution®, or HTD® facilities;
buildings designed to quickly distribute our customers’
products, rather than store them. Our investment focus on HTD
assets is based on the secular change toward lower inventory
levels and expedited supply chains.

HTD facilities have a variety of characteristics
that allow the rapid transport of goods from point-to-point;
examples include numerous dock doors, shallower building depths,
fewer columns, large truck courts and more space for trailer
parking. These facilities function best when located in
convenient proximity to transportation infrastructure such as
major airports and seaports. We believe that these building
characteristics represent an important success factor for
time-sensitive tenants such as air express, logistics and
freight forwarding companies.

As of December 31, 2002, we owned and
operated (exclusive of properties that we managed for third
parties) 904 industrial buildings and nine retail and other
properties, totaling approximately 85.2 million


rentable square feet, located in 28 markets
throughout North America and in France. As of December 31, 2002,
our industrial and retail properties were 94.6% and 88.6%
leased, respectively. As of December 31, 2002, through our
subsidiary, AMB Capital Partners, LLC, we also managed, but did
not have an ownership interest in, industrial buildings and
retail centers, totaling approximately 1.7 million rentable
square feet, on behalf of various clients. In addition, as of
December 31, 2002, we had investments in 43 industrial
buildings, totaling approximately 5.5 million rentable
square feet, through unconsolidated joint ventures.

As of December 31, 2002, we had two retail
centers, four industrial properties and two development
properties that we are holding for divestiture. Over the next
few years, we intend to dispose of non-strategic assets and
redeploy the resulting capital into industrial properties in
supply-constrained markets in the U.S. and internationally that
better fit our current investment focus.

We are self-administered and self-managed and
expect that we have qualified and will continue to qualify as a
real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes
beginning with the year ending December 31, 1997. As a
self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust,
our own employees perform our administrative and management
functions, rather than our relying on an outside manager for
these services. Our principal executive office is located at
Pier 1, Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111; our
telephone number is (415) 394-9000. We also maintain
regional offices in Boston, Massachusetts and Amsterdam, the
Netherlands. As of December 31, 2002, we employed 184
individuals, 141 at our San Francisco headquarters, 42 in our
Boston office and one in our Amsterdam office. Our website
address is

www.amb.com

. Our annual report on
Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Exchange Act are available on our website free of charge as soon
as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
Commission.

The following marks are our registered
trademarks: AMB®; Broker Alliance Partners®; Broker
Alliance Program®; Customer Alliance Partners®;
Customer Alliance Program®; Development Alliance
Partners®; Development Alliance Program®; HTD®;
High Throughput Distribution®; Institutional Alliance
Partners®; Institutional Alliance Program®; Management
Alliance Partners®; Management Alliance Program®;
Strategic Alliance Partners®; UPREIT Alliance
Partners®; and UPREIT Alliance Program®. The following
mark is our unregistered trademark: Strategic Alliance
Programs™.

Co-investment Joint Ventures

Through the operating partnership, we enter into
co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. These
co-investment joint ventures provide us with an additional
source of capital to fund certain acquisitions, development
projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital
income, which enhances our returns. As of December 31,
2002, we had investments in five co-investment joint ventures
with a gross book value of $1.6 billion, which are
consolidated for financial reporting purposes.

Acquisition, Development and Disposition
Activity

During 2002, we invested $403.3 million in
operating properties, consisting of 43 industrial buildings,
aggregating approximately 5.4 million square feet, and a
parking lot adjacent to Los Angeles International Airport. Our
acquisitions included the investment of $166.5 million in
31 buildings, aggregating approximately 3.1 million square
feet, through two of our co-investment joint ventures.

During 2002, we completed industrial developments
valued at $135.4 million, aggregating approximately
3.1 million square feet. We also initiated eight new
industrial development projects valued at $90.6 million,
aggregating approximately 1.8 million square feet,
including new international industrial development projects
valued at $50.3 million, aggregating approximately
1.1 million square feet.

As of December 31, 2002, we had in our
development pipeline ten industrial projects, which will total
approximately 1.7 million square feet and have an aggregate
estimated investment of $106.8 million upon completion and
three development projects available for sale, which will total
approximately 0.6 million square feet and have an aggregate
estimated investment of $49.1 million upon completion. As
of December 31, 2002,


we and our partners had funded an aggregate of
$92.8 million and needed to fund an estimated additional
$63.1 million in order to complete current and planned projects.

During 2002, we disposed of 58 industrial
buildings, two retail buildings, and an undeveloped retail land
parcel, aggregating approximately 5.7 million rentable
square feet, for an aggregate price of $244.0 million.
During 2002, we also sold $76.9 million in operating
properties, consisting of 15 industrial buildings aggregating
approximately 1.9 million square feet, to one of our
co-investment joint ventures. During 2002, we also completed and
sold six buildings developed as part of our development-for-sale
program for a net gain of $1.0 million.

Operating Strategy

We base our operating strategy on extensive
operational and service offerings, including in-house
acquisitions, development, redevelopment, asset management,
leasing, finance, accounting and market research. We leverage
our expertise across a large customer base and have
long-standing relationships with entrepreneurial real estate
management and development firms in our target markets, our
Strategic Alliance Partners®.

We believe that real estate is fundamentally a
local business and best operated by forging alliances with
service providers in each target market. We believe that this
strategy results in a mutually beneficial relationship as these
alliance partners provide us with high-quality, local market
expertise and intelligence. We, in turn, contribute value to the
alliance relationship through national and global customer
relationship development, industry knowledge, perspective and
financial strength.

While our alliance relationships give us local
market benefits, we retain flexibility to focus on our core
competencies: developing and executing our strategic approach to
real estate investment and management and raising private
capital to finance growth and enhance returns to stockholders.

Growth Strategies

Growth
Through Operations

We seek to generate internal growth through rent
increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space. We
do this by seeking to maintain a high occupancy rate at our
properties and by seeking to control expenses by capitalizing on
the economies of owning, operating and growing a large global
portfolio. As of December 31, 2002, our industrial
properties and retail centers were 94.6% leased and 88.6%
leased, respectively. During 2002, average industrial base
rental rates (on a cash basis) decreased by 1.0% from the
expiring rent for that space, on leases entered into or renewed
during the period. This amount excludes expense reimbursements,
rental abatements and percentage rents. During 2002, we
increased cash-basis same-store net operating income by 3.5% on
our industrial properties. Since our initial public offering in
November 1997, we have experienced average annual increases in
industrial base rental rates (on a cash basis) of 14.5%; and we
have experienced average quarterly increases in industrial
same-store net operating income (on a cash basis) of 6.5%. While
we believe that it is important to view real estate as a
long-term investment, past results are not necessarily an
indication of future performance.

While occupancy levels in our industrial
portfolio were similar in 2002 and 2001, rents on lease renewals
and rollovers were lower in 2002 as the general contraction in
business activity nationwide caused a reduction in demand for
industrial warehouse facilities. This reduction in demand was
evidenced by two significant factors: decreases in national
industrial occupancy levels and negative net absorption of
industrial facility space. Specifically, according to Torto
Wheaton Research, at December 31, 2001, national industrial
occupancy was 90.2%; by December 31, 2002, national
occupancy fell to 88.8%. As reported by Torto Wheaton Research,
national net absorption of industrial space (the change in the
amount of square footage leased in existing and newly
constructed industrial properties) was positive from 1989
through 2000. By contrast, Torto Wheaton Research reported that
net absorption was

negative

by 152 million square
feet in 2001 and 34 million square feet in 2002. In 2002,
these factors combined to reduce market rents for industrial
properties by approximately 15% to 20% nationally from peak
levels at the beginning of 2001. While the level


of rental rate reduction varied by market, we
strove to maintain high occupancy by pricing lease renewals and
new leases with sensitivity to local market conditions.

Growth
Through Acquisitions and Capital Redeployment

We believe that our significant acquisition
experience, our alliance-based operating strategy and our
extensive network of property acquisition sources will continue
to provide opportunities for external growth. We have forged
relationships with third-party local property management firms
through our Management Alliance Program®. We believe that
these alliances will create acquisition opportunities, as such
managers market properties on behalf of sellers. Our operating
structure also enables us to acquire properties through our
UPREIT Alliance Program® in exchange for limited
partnership units in the operating partnership, thereby
enhancing our attractiveness to owners and developers seeking to
transfer properties on a tax-deferred basis. In addition to
acquisitions, we seek to redeploy capital from non-strategic
assets into properties that better fit our current investment
focus.

We are generally in various stages of
negotiations for a number of acquisitions and dispositions that
may include acquisitions and dispositions of individual
properties, acquisitions of large multi-property portfolios and
acquisitions of other real estate companies. There can be no
assurance that we will consummate any of these transactions.
Such transactions, if we consummate them, may be material
individually or in the aggregate. Sources of capital for
acquisitions may include undistributed cash flow from
operations, borrowings under our unsecured credit facility,
other forms of secured or unsecured debt financing, issuances of
debt or equity securities by us or the operating partnership
(including issuances of units in the operating partnership or
its subsidiaries), proceeds from divestitures of properties,
assumption of debt related to the acquired properties and
private capital from our co-investment partners.

Growth
Through Development

We believe that renovation and expansion of
properties and development of well-located, high-quality
industrial properties should continue to provide us with
attractive opportunities for increased cash flow and a higher
rate of return than we may obtain from the purchase of
fully-leased, renovated properties. Value-added properties are
typically characterized as properties with available space or
near-term leasing exposure, undeveloped land acquired in
connection with another property that provides an opportunity
for development, or properties that are well located but require
redevelopment or renovation. Value-added properties require
significant management attention or capital investment to
maximize their return. We believe that we have developed the
in-house expertise to create value through acquiring and
managing value-added properties and believe that our global
market presence and expertise will enable us to continue to
generate and capitalize on these opportunities. Through our
Development Alliance Program®, we have established
strategic alliances with global and regional developers to
enhance our development capabilities.

The multidisciplinary backgrounds of our
employees should provide us with the skills and experience to
capitalize on strategic renovation, expansion and development
opportunities. Several of our officers have extensive experience
in real estate development, both with us and with national
development firms. We generally pursue development projects in
joint ventures with our Development Alliance Partners. This way,
we leverage the development skill, access to opportunities and
capital of such developers, and we eliminate the need and
expense of an extensive in-house development staff. Under a
typical joint venture agreement with a Development Alliance
Partner, we would fund 95% of the construction costs and our
partner would fund 5%; however, in certain cases we may own as
little as 50% or as much as 98% of the joint venture. Upon
completion, we generally would purchase our partner’s
interest in the joint venture. We may also structure
developments where we would own 100% of the asset with an
incentive development fee to be paid upon completion to our
development partner.

Growth
Through Co-Investments

We co-invest with third-party partners (some of
whom may be clients of AMB Capital Partners, LLC, to the extent
such partners commit new investment capital) through
partnerships, limited liability companies or


joint ventures. We currently use a co-investment
formula with each third party whereby we will own at least a 20%
interest in all ventures. In general, we control all significant
operating and investment decisions of our co-investment
entities. We believe that our co-investment program will
continue to serve as a source of capital for acquisitions and
developments and private capital income; however, there can be
no assurance that it will continue to do so. During 2002, we
sold $76.9 million in operating properties, consisting of
15 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
1.9 million square feet, to one of our co-investment joint
ventures, AMB-SGP, L.P. We recognized a gain of
$3.3 million related to this sale, representing the portion
of the sold properties acquired by the third-party co-investor.
We also sold 30% of our interest in AMB Partners II, L.P., our
co-investment joint venture with the City and County of San
Francisco Employees’ Retirement System, to our
co-investment joint venture partner; we now own 20% of AMB
Partners II, L.P. We recognized a gain of $6.3 million
related to this sale.

Growth
Through Developments for Sale

The operating partnership, through its taxable
REIT subsidiaries, conducts a variety of businesses that include
incremental income programs, such as our development projects
available for sale to third parties. Such development properties
include value-added conversion projects and build-to-sell
projects. During 2002, we completed and sold six value-added
conversion buildings for a net gain of $1.0 million. As of
December 31, 2002, we were developing three projects for
sale to third parties. During 2001, we completed and sold two
value-added conversion projects for a net gain of
$13.2 million.

Growth
Through Global Expansion

Over the next three to five years, we expect to
have from 10% to 15% of our assets invested in international
markets. Our Mexican target markets currently include Mexico
City, Guadalajara and Monterrey. Our European target markets
currently include Paris, Amsterdam, London, Frankfurt and
Madrid. Our Asian target markets currently include Singapore,
Hong Kong and Tokyo. In 2002, our first year of international
operation, we earned $0.7 million in rental revenues from
our Mexico City, Guadalajara and Paris properties. There are
many factors that could cause our entry into target markets and
future capital allocation to differ from our current
expectations, which are discussed under the subheading “Our
International Growth is Subject to Special Political and
Monetary Risks” and elsewhere under the heading
“Business Risks” in this report.

We believe that expansion into target
international markets represents a natural extension of our
well-established strategy to invest in industrial markets with
high population densities, close proximity to large customer
clusters and available labor pools, and major distribution
centers serving the global supply chain. Our expansion strategy
mirrors our domestic focus on in-fill locations, which are
supply-constrained submarkets with political, economic or
physical constraints to new development; and, land, as a high
percentage of total asset value, becoming more valuable for
higher and better use over time. Our international investments
will extend our offering of High Throughput Distribution
facilities for customers who value speed-to-market over storage.
Specifically, we are focused on customers whose business is
derived from world air-cargo flows, a sector expected to grow
significantly faster than world GDP growth. In addition, our
investments target major consumer distribution markets and
customers.

We believe that our established customer
relationships, our contacts in the air cargo and logistics
industries, diligent underwriting of markets and investment
considerations and our strategic alliance partnerships with
knowledgeable, local-market property brokers, developers and
managers will assist us in competing internationally.

BUSINESS RISKS

See: “Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Business Risks” for a complete
discussion of the various risks that could adversely affect us.


Item 2.

Properties

INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES

As of December 31, 2002, we owned 904
industrial buildings aggregating approximately 84.2 million
rentable square feet, located in 28 markets throughout North
America and France. Our industrial properties accounted for
$501.2 million, or 97.7%, of our total annualized base rent
as of December 31, 2002. Our industrial properties were
94.6% leased to over 2,300 customers, the largest of which
accounted for no more than 2.6% of our annualized base rent from
our industrial properties. See “Item 14. Note 17
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for segment
information related to our operations.

Property Characteristics.

Our industrial properties, which
consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities suitable
for single or multiple customers, are typically comprised of
multiple buildings. The following table identifies type and
characteristics of our industrial buildings and each type’s
percentage of our total portfolio based on square footage at
December 31:

Lease Terms.

Our
industrial properties are typically subject to lease on a
“triple net basis,” in which customers pay their
proportionate share of real estate taxes, insurance and
operating costs, or are subject to leases on a “modified
gross basis,” in which customers pay expenses over certain
threshold levels. In addition, most of our leases include fixed
rental increases or CPI rental increases. Lease terms typically
range from three to ten years, with an average of six years,
excluding renewal options. However, the majority of our
industrial leases do not include renewal options.

Overview of Major Target Markets.

Our industrial properties are located
near key passenger and air cargo airports, key interstate
highways, and seaports in major domestic metropolitan areas,
such as Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/ Fort Worth, Los Angeles,
Northern New Jersey/New York City, the San Francisco Bay Area,
Miami and Seattle. Our international industrial facilities are
located in major distributions markets including Mexico City,
Guadalajara and Paris. We believe our industrial
properties’ strategic location, transportation network and
infrastructure, and large consumer and manufacturing bases
support strong demand for industrial space.

Within these metropolitan areas, our industrial
properties are concentrated in locations with limited new
construction opportunities within established, relatively large
submarkets, which we believe should provide a higher rate of
occupancy and rent growth than properties located elsewhere.
These in-fill locations are typically near major passenger and
air cargo facilities, seaports or convenient to major highways
and rail lines, and are proximate to a diverse labor pool. There
is typically broad demand for industrial space in these
centrally located submarkets due to a diverse mix of industries
and types of industrial uses, including warehouse distribution,
light assembly and manufacturing. We generally avoid locations
at the periphery of metropolitan areas where there are fewer
constraints to the supply of additional industrial properties.


Industrial Market Operating
Statistics

As of December 31, 2002, we operated in
eight domestic hub and gateway markets, in addition to 20 other
markets throughout North America and France. The following table
represents properties in which we own a fee simple interest or a
controlling interest (consolidated), and excludes properties in
which we only own a non-controlling interest (unconsolidated)
and properties under development.

(1)

Includes all industrial consolidated operating
    properties and excludes industrial developments and renovation
    projects.

(2)

Same store pool excludes properties purchased or
    developments stabilized after December 31, 2000.

(3)

Total market square footage includes industrial
    and retail operating properties, development properties,
    unconsolidated properties, properties managed for third parties
    and reallocation of on-tarmac properties.


Industrial Operating Portfolio
Overview

As of December 31, 2002, our 904 industrial
buildings were diversified across 28 markets throughout North
America and France. The average age of our industrial properties
is 19 years (since the property was built or substantially
renovated). The following table represents properties in which
we own a fee simple interest or a controlling interest
(consolidated), and excludes properties in which we only own a
non-controlling interest (unconsolidated).


Industrial Lease Expirations

The following table summarizes the lease
expirations for our industrial properties for leases in place as
of December 31, 2002, without giving effect to the exercise
of renewal options or termination rights, if any, at or prior to
the scheduled expirations.

(1)

Schedule includes in-place leases and leases with
    future commencement dates.

(2)

Calculated as monthly rent at expiration
    multiplied by 12.

(3)

Includes month-to-month leases totaling
    0.5 million square feet.


Customer Information

Largest Property Customers.

Our 25 largest industrial property
customers by annualized base rent are set forth in the table
below.


OPERATING AND LEASING STATISTICS

Industrial Operating and Leasing
Statistics

The following table summarizes key operating and
leasing statistics for all of our industrial properties as of
and for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:

Industrial Same Store Operating
Statistics

The following table summarizes key operating and
leasing statistics for our same store properties as of and for
the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. The same
store pool excludes properties purchased and developments
stabilized after December 31, 2000. For an explanation of
our same store


properties, see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Results of Operations.”

RETAIL PROPERTIES

Retail and Other Property Summary

The following table sets forth the rentable
square footage of our retail centers and other properties as of
December 31, 2002, and represents properties in which we
own a fee simple interest or a controlling interest
(consolidated).

Our retail properties have an average age of
12 years since they were built, expanded or renovated.
During 2002, we sold two retail properties totaling
approximately 0.3 million rentable square feet and an
undeveloped retail land parcel. As of December 31, 2002, we
had two retail centers, aggregating approximately
0.4 million rentable square feet, held for divestiture.


Development Pipeline

The following table sets forth the properties
owned by us as of December 31, 2002, which were undergoing
renovation, expansion or new development. No assurance can be
given that any of such projects will be completed on schedule or
within budgeted amounts.

Industrial Development and Renovation
Deliveries


DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS AVAILABLE FOR
SALE(1)

Properties Held Through Joint Ventures,
Limited Liability Companies, and Partnerships

Consolidated

As of December 31, 2002, we held interests
in joint ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships
with third parties, which are consolidated in our consolidated
financial statements. Such investments are consolidated because
we own a majority interest or exercise significant control over
major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection
of property managers and changes in financing. Under the
agreements governing the joint ventures, we and the other party
to the joint venture may be required to make additional capital
contributions and, subject to certain limitations, the joint
ventures may incur additional debt. Such agreements also impose
certain restrictions on the transfer of joint venture interests
by us or the other party to the joint venture and provide
certain rights to us or the other party to the joint venture to
sell its interest to the joint venture or to the other joint
venture partner on terms specified in the agreement. See
“Item 14. Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.”


INDUSTRIAL CONSOLIDATED JOINT
VENTURES


RETAIL AND OTHER CONSOLIDATED JOINT
VENTURES

(1)

Represents the book value of the property (before
    accumulated depreciation) owned by the joint-venture entity and
    excludes net other assets.

(2)

Included as properties held for divestiture.

(3)

Represents 26 acres of land for future
    development. We sold 13 acres of our 39 acres in December 2002.


Unconsolidated
Joint Ventures, Mortgage Investments and Other
Investments:

As of December 31, 2002, we held interests
in four equity investment joint ventures that are unconsolidated
in our financial statements. The management and control over
significant aspects of these investments are with the third
party joint venture partner. In addition, as of
December 31, 2002, we held one mortgage investment from
which we receive interest income.

UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES,

MORTGAGE AND OTHER INVESTMENTS

Secured Debt

As of December 31, 2002, we had
$1.3 billion of indebtedness, net of unamortized premiums,
secured by deeds of trust on 104 properties. As of
December 31, 2002, the total gross investment value of
those properties secured by debt was $2.6 billion. Of the
$1.3 billion of secured indebtedness, $893.1 million
was joint venture debt secured by properties with a gross
investment value of $1.6 billion. See
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity
and Capital Resources” and “Item 14. Note 7
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” included in
this report. We believe that as of December 31, 2002, the
value of the properties securing the respective obligations in
each case exceeded the principal amount of the outstanding
obligations.


Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

As of December 31, 2002, there were no
pending legal proceedings to which we were a party or of which
any of our properties was the subject, the adverse determination
of which we anticipate would have a material adverse effect upon
our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Item 4.

Submission
of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.

PART II

Item 5.

Market
For Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder
Matters

Our common stock began trading on the New York
Stock Exchange on November 21, 1997, under the symbol
“AMB.” As of March 10, 2003, there were
approximately 352 holders of record of our common stock
(excluding shares held through The Depository Trust Company, as
nominee). Set forth below are the high and low sales prices per
share of our common stock, as reported on the NYSE composite
tape, and the distribution per share paid or payable by us
during the period from January 1, 2000, through
December 31, 2002.


Item 6.

Selected
Financial and Other Data

SELECTED COMPANY FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA
(1)

The following table sets forth selected
consolidated historical financial and other data for AMB
Property Corporation on an historical basis as of and for the
years ended December 31:


Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

You should read the following discussion and
analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of
operations in conjunction with the notes to consolidated
financial statements. Statements contained in this discussion
that are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements.
Such statements relate to our future performance and plans,
results of operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and
operating improvements and costs. You can identify
forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking
terminology such as “believes,” “expects,”
“may,” “will,” “should,”
“seeks,” “approximately,”
“intends,” “plans,” “pro forma,”
“estimates” or “anticipates,” or the
negative of these words and phrases, or similar words or
phrases. You can also identify forward-looking statements by
discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Forward-looking
statements involve numerous risks and uncertainties and you
should not rely upon them as predictions of future events. There
is no assurance that the events or circumstances reflected in
forward-looking statements will occur or be achieved.
Forward-looking statements are necessarily dependent on
assumptions, data or methods that may be incorrect or imprecise
and we may not be able to realize them.

The following factors, among others, could
cause actual results and future events to differ materially from
those set forth or contemplated in the forward-looking
statements:

Our success also depends upon economic trends
generally, including interest rates, income tax laws,
governmental regulation, legislation, population changes and
those other risk factors discussed in the section entitled
“Business Risks” in this report. We caution you not to
place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which
reflect our analysis only and speak as of the date of this
report or as of the dates indicated in the statements.

GENERAL

We commenced operations as a fully integrated
real estate company in connection with the completion of our
initial public offering on November 26, 1997, and elected
to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under Sections 856
through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with our
initial tax return for the year


ended December 31, 1997. AMB Property
Corporation and the operating partnership were formed shortly
before the consummation of our initial public offering.

We generate revenue primarily from rent received
from customers under long-term operating leases at our
properties, including reimbursements from customers for certain
operating costs and our private capital business. In addition,
our growth is, in part, dependent on our ability to increase
occupancy rates or increase rental rates at our properties and
our ability to continue the acquisition and development of
additional properties. Although the weak economy has decreased
customer demand for new space and has limited or in some cases
lowered rent growth, many types of investors are acquiring
industrial real estate. In 2002, we capitalized on this
opportunity by accelerating our portfolio repositioning program
through the disposition of properties. Our income would be
adversely affected if a significant number of customers were
unable to pay rent or if we were unable to rent our industrial
space on favorable terms. Certain significant expenditures
associated with an investment in real estate (such as mortgage
payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs) generally do
not decline when circumstances cause a reduction in income from
the property. Moreover, as the general partner of the operating
partnership, we generally will be liable for all of the
operating partnership’s unsatisfied obligations other than
non-recourse obligations, including the operating
partnership’s obligations as the general partner of the
co-investment joint ventures. Any such liabilities could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our discussion and analysis of financial
condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated
financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America (“GAAP”). The preparation of these
financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments
that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and
contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
periods. We evaluate our assumptions and estimates on an
on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience
and on various other assumptions that we believe to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following
critical accounting policies affect our more significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements.

Investments in Real Estate.

Investments in real estate are stated
at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be
recovered, in which case, the carrying value of the property is
reduced to estimated fair value. Carrying values for financial
reporting purposes are reviewed for impairment on a
property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may
not be recoverable. Impairment is recognized when estimated
expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest
charges) are less than the carrying amount of the property. The
estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently
uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future
market conditions and the availability of capital. If impairment
analysis assumptions change, then an adjustment to the carrying
amount of our long-lived assets could occur in the future period
in which the assumptions change. To the extent that a property
is impaired, the excess of the carrying amount of the property
over its estimated fair value is charged to earnings.

Rental Revenues.

We
record rental revenue from operating leases on a straight-line
basis over the term of the leases and maintain an allowance for
estimated losses that may result from the inability of our
customers to make required payments. If customers fail to make
contractual lease payments that are greater than our bad-debt
reserves, security deposits and letters of credit, then we may
have to recognize additional bad debt charges in future periods.
Each period we review our outstanding accounts receivable,
including straight-line rents, for doubtful accounts and provide
allowances as needed. Historically, our bad debt expense has
been between 50 and 150 basis points of total revenues.


Consolidated Joint Ventures.

Minority interests represent the
limited partnership interests in the operating partnership and
interests held by certain third parties in several real estate
joint ventures, aggregating approximately 33.8 million
square feet, which are consolidated for financial reporting
purposes. Such investments are consolidated because we own a
majority interest or we exercise significant control over major
operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of
property managers, investment activity and changes in financing.

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures.

We have non-controlling limited
partnership interests in four separate unconsolidated joint
ventures. These investments are not consolidated because we do
not exercise significant control over major operating decisions
such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers,
investment activity and changes in financing. We account for the
joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.

Stock-based Compensation Expense.

In 2002, we adopted the expense
recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (“SFAS”) No. 123,

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation

. We value stock options issued
using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and recognize this
value as an expense over the period in which the options vest.
Under this standard, recognition of expense for stock options is
retroactively applied to all options granted after the beginning
of the year of adoption. Prior to 2002, we followed the
intrinsic method set forth in APB Opinion 25,

Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees

. During 2002, we awarded
2.0 million stock options to employees. In accordance with
SFAS No. 123, we will recognize the associated expense over
the three to five-year vesting periods. The expense is included
in general and administrative expenses in the accompanying
consolidated statements of operations.

REIT Compliance.

We
elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under
Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code
commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1997.
In order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we must
derive at least 95% of our gross income in any year from
qualifying sources. In addition, we must pay dividends to
stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our real
estate investment trust taxable income (determined without
regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital
gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly
basis. It is our current intention to adhere to these
requirements and maintain our REIT status. As a REIT, we
generally will not be subject to corporate level federal income
tax on net income that we distribute currently to our
stockholders. As such, no provision for federal income taxes has
been included in the accompanying consolidated financial
statements. As a REIT, we still may be subject to certain state,
local and foreign taxes on our income and property and to
federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed taxable
income. In addition, we will be required to pay federal and
state income tax on the net taxable income, if any, from the
activities conducted through our taxable REIT subsidiaries.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The analysis below includes changes attributable
to acquisitions, development activity, divestitures and the
changes resulting from properties that we owned during both the
current and prior year reporting periods, excluding development
properties prior to being stabilized (generally defined as 90%
leased or 12 months after we receive a certificate of
occupancy for the building). We refer to these properties as the
same store properties. For the comparison between the years
ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, the same store industrial
properties consisted of properties aggregating approximately
68.0 million square feet. The properties acquired during 2002
consisted of 43 buildings, aggregating approximately
5.4 million square feet. The properties acquired during
2001 consisted of 65 buildings, aggregating approximately 6.8
million square feet. In 2002, property divestitures consisted of
58 industrial buildings and two retail centers, aggregating
approximately 5.7 million square feet. In 2001, property
divestitures consisted of 24 industrial and two retail
buildings, aggregating approximately 3.2 million square
feet. Our future financial condition and results of operations,
including rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition of
additional properties and dispositions. Our future revenues and
expenses may vary materially from historical rates.

While occupancy levels in our industrial
portfolio were similar in 2002 and 2001, rents on lease renewals
and rollovers were lower in 2002 as the general contraction in
business activity nationwide caused a reduction


in demand for industrial warehouse facilities.
This reduction in demand was evidenced by two significant
factors: decreases in national industrial occupancy levels and
negative net absorption of industrial facility space.
Specifically, according to Torto Wheaton Research, at
December 31, 2001, national industrial occupancy was 90.2%;
by December 31, 2002, national occupancy fell to 88.8%. As
reported by Torto Wheaton Research, national net absorption of
industrial space (the change in the amount of square footage
leased in existing and newly constructed industrial properties)
was positive from 1989 through 2000. By contrast, Torto Wheaton
Research reported that net absorption was

negative

by
152.0 million square feet in 2001 and 34.0 million
square feet in 2002. These factors combined to reduce market
rents for industrial properties by approximately 15% to 20%
nationally from peak levels at the beginning of 2001. While the
level of rental rate reduction varied by market, we strove to
maintain high occupancy by pricing lease renewals and new leases
with sensitivity to local market conditions.

For the Years Ended December 31, 2002 and

The growth in rental revenues in same store
properties resulted primarily from increased lease termination
fees, fixed rent increases on existing leases and reimbursement
of expenses, partially offset by lower average occupancies.
Industrial same store occupancy was 94.6% at December 31,
2002, and 95.0% at December 31, 2001. Year-to-date, the
same store rent decrease on industrial renewals and rollovers
(cash basis) was (1.4%) on 13.8 million square feet leased.
The increase in straight-line rents was partially offset by
write-offs associated with lease terminations. In 2002, lease
termination fees increased $9.5 million, net of
straight-line rent adjustments and lease cost and tenant
improvement write-downs, over 2001.

The decrease in interest and other income was
primarily due to the repayment of the $74.0 million
mortgage note in July 2002. We carried a 9.5% mortgage note
secured by the retail center that we sold in September 2000 in
the principal amount of $74.0 million.


The $5.7 million increase in same store
properties’ operating expenses primarily relates to
increases in real estate taxes of $1.2 million and
insurance expenses of $3.7 million due to premium increases.

The increase in interest expense was primarily
due to the issuance of additional unsecured senior debt
securities and an increase in secured debt balances, partially
offset by decreased borrowings on our unsecured credit facility.
The secured debt issuances were primarily for our co-investment
joint ventures’ properties. The increase in depreciation
expense was due to the increase in our net investment in real
estate. The increase in general and administrative expenses was
primarily due to the consolidation of AMB Investment Management,
Inc. (predecessor-in-interest to AMB Capital Partners, LLC) and
Headlands Realty Corporation on May 31, 2001. Prior to
May 31, 2001, general and administrative expenses did not
include expenses incurred by two unconsolidated preferred stock
subsidiaries, Headlands Realty Corporation and AMB Investment
Management, Inc. General and administrative expenses would have
been $39.4 million had the subsidiaries been consolidated
beginning January 1, 2001. The increase in general and
administrative expenses was also due to increased stock-based
compensation expense, additional staffing and expenses for new
initiatives, including our international expansion and income
taxes for our taxable REIT subsidiaries.

In 2001, we recognized $20.8 million of
losses on investments in other companies, including our
investment in Webvan Group, Inc. and other technology-related
companies. The loss reflects a 100% write-down of the
investments. No gains or losses were recognized in 2002.


For the Years Ended December 31, 2001 and

The growth in rental revenues in same store
properties resulted primarily from the incremental effect of
cash rental rate increases on renewals and rollovers, fixed rent
increases on existing leases, and reimbursement of expenses,
partially offset by lower average occupancies. During 2001, the
same store rent increases on industrial renewals and rollovers
(cash basis) was 23.5% on 10.0 million square feet leased.

The $6.7 million increase in private capital
income was due primarily to increased asset management and
acquisition fees and priority distributions from our
co-investment joint ventures. The $9.8 million increase in
interest and other income was primarily due to interest income
from our mortgage note on the retail center that we sold in 2000
and from interest income resulting from higher average cash
balances.

The increase in same store properties’
operating expenses primarily relates to increases in common area
maintenance expenses of $2.3 million, real estate taxes of
$2.5 million and insurance expense of $0.8 million.


The increase in interest expense was primarily
due to the issuance of additional unsecured senior debt
securities and an increase in secured debt balances, partially
offset by decreased borrowings on our unsecured credit facility.
The secured debt issuances were primarily for our co-investment
joint ventures’ properties. The increase in depreciation
expense was due to the increase in our net investment in real
estate. The increase in general and administrative expenses was
primarily due to increased personnel and occupancy costs. In
addition, the consolidation of AMB Investment Management, Inc.
(predecessor-in-interest to AMB Capital Partners, LLC) and
Headlands Realty Corporation on May 31, 2001, resulted in
an increase in general and administrative expenses of
$4.9 million.

During 2001, we recognized $20.8 million of
losses on investments in other companies, related to our
investment in Webvan Group, Inc. and other technology-related
companies. The loss reflects a 100% write-down of the book value
of the investments.


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We currently expect that our principal sources of
working capital and funding for acquisitions, development,
expansion and renovation of properties will include:

We believe that our sources of working capital,
specifically our cash flow from operations, borrowings available
under our unsecured credit facility and our ability to access
private and public debt and equity capital, are adequate for us
to meet our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future.

Capital Resources

Property Divestitures.

During 2002, we divested ourselves of
58 industrial buildings, two retail centers and an undeveloped
retail land parcel for an aggregate price of
$244.0 million, with a resulting net gain of $9.6 million.
During 2002, we also completed and sold six buildings developed
as part of our development-for-sale program for a net gain of
$1.0 million.

Properties Held for Divestiture.

We have decided to divest ourselves of
two retail centers, four industrial properties and two
development properties, which are not in our core markets or
which do not meet our current strategic objectives. The
divestitures of the properties are subject to negotiation of
acceptable terms and other customary conditions. As of
December 31, 2002, the net carrying value of the properties
held for divestiture was $107.9 million.

Co-investment Joint Ventures.

We consolidate the financial position,
results of operations and cash flows of our five co-investment
joint ventures. Our five co-investment joint ventures are
engaged in the acquisition, ownership, operation, management
and, in some cases, the renovation, expansion and development of
industrial buildings in target markets nationwide. We
consolidate these joint ventures for financial reporting
purposes because we are the sole managing general partner and,
as a result, control all major operating decisions. Third-party
equity interests in the joint ventures are reflected as minority
interests in the consolidated financial statements. As of
December 31, 2002, we owned approximately 28.2 million
square feet of our properties through these five co-investment
joint ventures and 5.6 million square feet of our
properties through our other consolidated joint ventures. We may
make additional investments through these joint ventures or new
joint ventures in the future and presently plan to do so.

During 2002, we sold $76.9 million in
operating properties, consisting of 15 industrial buildings,
aggregating approximately 1.9 million square feet, to one
of our co-investment joint ventures, AMB-SGP, L.P. We recognized
a gain of $3.3 million related to this sale, representing
the portion of the sold properties acquired by the third-party
co-investor. We also sold 30% of our interest in AMB Partners
II, L.P. to our co-investment joint venture partner, we now own
20% of AMB Partners II, L.P. We recognized a gain of
$6.3 million related to this sale.


Our co-investment joint ventures at
December 31, 2002 (dollars in thousands):

Equity.

We have
authorized for issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock,
of which the following series were designated as of
December 31, 2002: 4,600,000 shares of Series A
preferred; 1,300,000 shares of Series B preferred;
1,595,337 shares of Series D preferred; 220,440 shares of
Series E preferred; 267,439 shares of Series F
preferred; 840,000 shares of Series H preferred; 510,000
shares of Series I preferred; 800,000 shares of
Series J preferred; and 800,000 shares of Series K
preferred. On July 31, 2002, AMB Property II, L.P., one of
our subsidiaries, repurchased 130,000 7.95% Series F
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units and
all 20,000 of its outstanding 7.95% Series G Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units from a single
institutional investor. We redeemed the units for an aggregate
cost of $7.1 million, including accrued and unpaid
dividends and a redemption discount of $0.4 million.

On April 17, 2002, the operating partnership
issued and sold 800,000 7.95% Series K Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units at a price of
$50.00 per unit in a private placement. Distributions are
cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in
arrears. The Series K Preferred Units are redeemable by the
operating partnership on or after April 17, 2007, subject
to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to
$50.00 per unit, plus accumulated and unpaid distributions
thereon, if any, to the redemption date. The Series K
Preferred Units are exchangeable at specified times and subject
to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis, for shares of our
Series K Preferred Stock. The operating partnership used
the net proceeds of $39.0 million for general corporate
purposes, which included the partial repayment of indebtedness
and the acquisition and development of additional properties.

During 2002, we redeemed 122,640 common limited
partnership units of the operating partnership for shares of our
common stock.

In December 2001, our board of directors approved
a new stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to
$100.0 million worth of our common and preferred stock. In
December 2002, our board of directors increased the repurchase
program to $200.0 million. The current stock repurchase
program expires in December 2003 and as of December 31,
2002, $130.6 million of repurchase capacity remained under
our current stock repurchase program. During 2002, we
repurchased 2,651,600 shares of our common stock for
$69.4 million, including commissions. In July 2002, we also
repurchased 4,200 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock
for an aggregate cost of $0.1 million, including accrued
and unpaid dividends.


Debt.

In order to
maintain financial flexibility and facilitate the deployment of
capital through market cycles, we presently intend to operate
with a debt-to-total market capitalization ratio (our share) of
approximately 45% or less. As of December 31, 2002, our
share of total debt-to-total market capitalization ratio was
37.7%. Additionally, we currently intend to manage our
capitalization in order to maintain an investment grade rating
on our senior unsecured debt. In spite of these policies, our
organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the
amount of indebtedness that we may incur. Accordingly, our board
of directors could alter or eliminate these policies or
circumstances could arise that could render us unable to comply
with these policies.

As of December 31, 2002, the aggregate
principal amount of our secured debt was $1.3 billion,
excluding unamortized debt premiums of $9.8 million. Of the
$1.3 billion of secured debt, $0.9 billion is secured
by properties in our joint ventures. The secured debt is
generally non-recourse and bears interest at rates varying from
3.0% to 10.4% per annum (with a weighted average rate of 7.3%)
and final maturity dates ranging from January 2003 to June 2023.
All of the secured debt bears interest at fixed rates, except
for seven loans with an aggregate principal amount of
$65.6 million as of December 31, 2002, which bear
interest at variable rates (with a weighted average interest
rate of 3.5% as of December 31, 2002). Over time, we intend
to repay the secured debt on our 100%-owned assets and may
prepay if market conditions warrant.

In May 2002, the operating partnership commenced
a medium-term note program for the issuance of up to
$400.0 million in principal amount of medium-term notes,
which will be guaranteed by us. As of December 31, 2002,
the operating partnership had issued no medium-term notes under
this program.

In August 2000, the operating partnership
commenced a medium-term note program for the issuance of up to
$400.0 million in principal amount of medium-term notes,
which are guaranteed by us. On January 14, 2002, the
operating partnership completed the program when it issued and
sold the remaining $20.0 million of the notes to Lehman
Brothers, Inc., as principal. We have guaranteed the notes,
which mature on January 17, 2007, and bear interest at
5.90% per annum. The operating partnership used the net proceeds
of $19.9 million for general corporate purposes, to
partially repay indebtedness and to acquire and develop
additional properties.

We guarantee the operating partnership’s
obligations with respect to its senior debt securities. If we
are unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at
maturity or pay them with proceeds from other capital
transactions, then our cash flow may be insufficient to pay
dividends to our stockholders in all years and to repay debt
upon maturity. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or
other factors at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance
of lenders to make commercial real estate loans) result in
higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest
expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase.
This increased interest expense would adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.

Credit Facilities.

In December 2002, the operating
partnership renewed its $500.0 million unsecured revolving
line of credit. We guarantee the operating partnership’s
obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility
matures in December 2005, has a one-year extension option and is
currently subject to a 20 basis point annual facility fee.
Borrowings under our credit facility currently bear interest at
LIBOR plus 60 basis points. Both the facility fee and the
interest rate are based on our credit rating, which is currently
investment grade. However, if our credit rating falls below
investment grade, then our facility fee and interest rate may
increase. The credit facility includes a multi-currency
component under which up to $150.0 million may be drawn in
either British pounds sterling, euros or yen, provided that such
currency is readily available and freely transferable and
convertible to U.S. dollars. The Reuters Monitor Money Rates
Service reports LIBOR for such currency in interest periods of
1, 2, 3 or 6 months. The operating partnership has the
ability to increase available borrowings to $700.0 million
by adding additional banks to the facility or obtaining the
agreement of existing banks to increase their commitments. We
use our unsecured credit facility principally for acquisitions
and for general working capital requirements. Monthly debt
service payments on our credit facility are interest only. The
total amount available under our credit facility fluctuates
based upon the borrowing base, as defined in the agreement
governing the credit facility, generally the value of our
unencumbered properties. As of December 31, 2002, the
outstanding balance on our unsecured credit facility was
$95.0 million and the


remaining amount available was
$379.0 million, net of outstanding letters of credit
(excluding the $200.0 million of potential additional
capacity).

In July 2001, AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II,
L.P. obtained a $150.0 million credit facility secured by the
unfunded capital commitments of the investors in AMB
Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc. and AMB Institutional
Alliance Fund II, L.P. Borrowings currently bear interest at
LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points. As of December 31, 2002,
the outstanding balance was $45.5 million and the remaining
amount available was $31.2 million, net of outstanding
letters of credit and capital contributions from third-party
investors.

Mortgage Receivables.

In September 2000, we sold a retail
center located in Southern California. We carried a 9.5%
mortgage note secured by the retail center in the principal
amount of $74.0 million, due September 30, 2002. On
July 3, 2002, we received a full repayment of the mortgage.
Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, we also hold a mortgage loan
receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint
venture. The note bears interest at 13.0% and matures in May
2026. As of December 31, 2002, the outstanding balance on
the note was $13.1 million.


The tables below summarize our debt maturities
and capitalization as of December 31, 2002 (dollars in
thousands):

DEBT

(1)

The weighted average interest and maturity for
    the unconsolidated joint venture debt were 6.4% and
    6.6 years, respectively.


MARKET EQUITY

PREFERRED STOCK AND UNITS

CAPITALIZATION RATIOS

Total debt-to-total market capitalization

44.9

%

Our share of total debt-to-total market
    capitalization

37.7

%

Total debt plus preferred-to-total market
    capitalization

53.1

%

Our share of total debt plus preferred-to-total
    market capitalization

47.0

%

Our share of total debt-to-total book
    capitalization

45.9

%

Liquidity

As of December 31, 2002, we had
$117.2 million in cash, restricted cash and cash
equivalents, and $379.0 million of additional available
borrowings under our credit facility. We also had
$31.2 million of additional available borrowings under our
AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P. credit facility. To
fund acquisitions, development activities and capital
expenditures, and to provide for general working capital
requirements, we intend to use:

The unavailability of capital would adversely
affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow
and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our
stock.


Our board of directors declared a regular cash
dividend for the quarter ending December 31, 2002, of $0.41
per share of common stock and the operating partnership declared
a regular cash distribution for the quarter ending
December 31, 2002, of $0.41 per common unit. The dividends
and distributions were payable on January 6, 2003, to
stockholders and unitholders of record on December 20,
2002. The Series A, B, E, F, J and K preferred stock and
unit dividends and distributions were payable on
January 15, 2003, to stockholders and unitholders of record
on January 3, 2003. The Series D, H and I preferred
unit distributions were payable on December 26, 2002. The
following table sets forth the dividends and distributions paid
or payable per share or unit for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000:

(1)

On July 31, 2002, AMB Property II, L.P., one
    of our subsidiaries, repurchased 130,000 of its 7.95%
    Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited
    Partnership Units and all 20,000 of its outstanding 7.95%
    Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited
    Partnership Units from a single institutional investor. On July,
    31, 2002, AMB Property II, L.P. paid a distribution, which
    accrued during the period from July 15, 2002 to July 31,
    2002, of $0.155 per unit on the 130,000 Series F preferred
    units that were redeemed.

The anticipated size of our distributions, using
only cash from operations, will not allow us to retire all of
our debt as it comes due. Therefore, we intend to also repay
maturing debt with net proceeds from future debt or equity
financings, as well as property divestitures. However, we may
not be able to obtain future financings on favorable terms or at
all. Our inability to obtain future financings on favorable
terms or at all would adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock.

Capital
Commitments

Developments.

In
addition to recurring capital expenditures, which consist of
building improvements and leasing costs incurred to renew or
re-tenant space, as of December 31, 2002, we are developing
ten projects representing a total estimated investment of
$106.8 million upon completion and three development
projects available for sale representing a total estimated
investment of $49.1 million upon completion. Of this total,
$92.8 million had been funded as of December 31, 2002,
and an estimated $63.1 million is required to complete
current and planned projects. We expect to fund these
expenditures with cash from operations, borrowings under our
credit facility, debt or equity issuances and net proceeds from
property divestitures, which could have an adverse effect on our
cash flow.

Acquisitions.

During
2002, we invested $403.3 million in 43 operating industrial
buildings, aggregating approximately 5.4 million rentable
square feet, and a parking lot adjacent to Los Angeles
International


Airport. We funded these acquisitions and
initiated development and renovation projects through private
capital contributions, borrowings under our credit facility,
cash, debt issuances and net proceeds from property divestitures.

Lease Commitments.

We have entered into operating ground
leases on certain land parcels, primarily on-tarmac facilities,
and office space with remaining lease terms from one to
38 years. Future minimum rental payments required under
non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of
December 31, 2002, were as follows (dollars in thousands):

These operating lease payments are being
amortized ratably over the terms of the related leases.

Captive Insurance Company.

We have responded to recent trends
towards increasing costs and decreasing coverage availability in
the insurance markets by obtaining higher-deductible property
insurance from third-party insurers and by forming a
wholly-owned captive insurance company, Arcata National
Insurance Ltd., in December 2001. Arcata National Insurance Ltd.
provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of losses below
the increased deductible under the third-party policies. We
capitalized Arcata National Insurance Ltd. in accordance with
regulatory requirements. Arcata National Insurance Ltd.
established annual premiums based on projections derived from
the past loss experience of our properties. Annually, we engage
an independent third party to perform an actuarial estimate of
future projected claims and projected expenses necessary to fund
associated risk management programs. Premiums paid to Arcata
National Insurance Ltd. may be adjusted based on this estimate.
Premiums paid to Arcata National Insurance Ltd. have a
retrospective component, so that if expenses, including losses,
are less than premiums collected, the excess will be returned to
the property owners (and, in turn, as appropriate, to the
customers) and conversely, subject to certain limitations, if
expenses, including losses, are greater than premiums collected,
an additional premium will be charged. As with all recoverable
expenses, differences between estimated and actual insurance
premiums will be recognized in the subsequent year. Through this
structure, we believe that we have been able to obtain insurance
for our portfolio with more comprehensive coverage at a
projected overall lower cost than would otherwise be available
in the market.

Potential Unknown Liabilities.

Unknown liabilities may include the
following:


Overview of Contractual
Obligations

The following tables summarizes our debt and
lease commitments as of December 31, 2002 (dollars in
thousands):

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We have no off-balance sheet transactions,
arrangements, obligations, guarantees or other relationships
with unconsolidated entities or other persons that have, or are
reasonably likely to have, a material effect on our financial
condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations,
liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.

Supplemental Earning Measure

We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP ,
is the most appropriate earnings measure. However, the real
estate industry has adopted a supplemental earnings measure,
funds from operations, or FFO, as defined by the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
(“NAREIT”), that is widely used by investors and
analysts. While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of
operating performance of real estate investment trusts, it does
not represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined
by GAAP and it should not be considered as an alternative to
those indicators in evaluating liquidity or operating
performance. Further, FFO as disclosed by other real estate
investment trusts may not be comparable.

FFO is defined as income from operations before
minority interest plus real estate depreciation, discontinued
operations’ FFO and adjustments to derive our pro rata
share of FFO of unconsolidated joint ventures, less minority
interests’ pro rata share of FFO of consolidated joint
ventures and perpetual preferred stock dividends. In accordance
with the NAREIT White Paper on FFO, we include the effects of
straight-line rents in FFO. Further, we do not adjust FFO to
eliminate the effects of non-recurring charges.


The following table reflects the calculation of
FFO for the years ended December 31, (dollars in thousands):

(1)

Ground lease amortization represents the
    amortization of our investments in ground lease properties, for
    which we do not have a purchase option.

The following table reflects supplemental cash
flow information and recurring capital expenditures for the
years ended December 31, (dollars in thousands):


BUSINESS RISKS

Our operations involve various risks that could
have adverse consequences to us. These risks include, among
others:

General Real Estate Risks

There are Factors Outside of Our Control
that Affect the Performance and Value of Our
Properties.

Real property investments are subject to varying
degrees of risk. The yields available from equity investments in
real estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital
appreciation generated by the related properties as well as the
expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If our
properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating
expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then
our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be
adversely affected. Income from, and the value of, our
properties may be adversely affected by the general economic
climate, local conditions, such as oversupply of industrial
space or a reduction in demand for industrial space, the
attractiveness of our properties to potential customers,
competition from other properties, our ability to provide
adequate maintenance and insurance and an increase in operating
costs. Periods of economic slowdown or recession in the United
States and in other countries, rising interest rates or
declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any
of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in
rents or an increased occurrence of defaults under existing
leases, which would adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operations.

Our properties are currently concentrated
predominantly in the industrial real estate sector. Our
concentration in a certain property type exposes us to the risk
of economic downturns in this sector to a greater extent than if
our portfolio also included other property types. As a result of
such concentration, economic downturns in the industrial real
estate sector could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock. In addition, revenues
from properties and real estate values are also affected by
factors such as the cost of compliance with regulations, the
potential for liability under applicable laws (including changes
in tax laws), interest rate levels and the availability of
financing. Our income would be adversely affected if a
significant number of customers were unable to pay rent or if we
were unable to rent our industrial space on favorable terms.
Certain significant expenditures associated with an investment
in real estate (such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes,
and maintenance costs) generally do not decline when
circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property.
Future terrorist attacks in the United States may result in
declining economic activity, which could harm the demand for and
the value of our properties. To the extent that our customers
are impacted by future attacks, their businesses similarly could
be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to
honor their existing leases.

We May Be Unable to Renew Leases or Relet
Space as Leases Expire.

We are subject to the risks that leases may not
be renewed, space may not be relet, or the terms of renewal or
reletting (including the cost of required renovations) may be
less favorable than current lease terms. Leases on a total of
15.4% of our industrial properties (based on annualized base
rent) as of December 31, 2002, will expire on or prior to
December 31, 2003. In addition, numerous properties compete
with our properties in attracting customers to lease space,
particularly with respect to retail centers. The number of
competitive commercial properties in a particular area could
have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space in
our properties and on the rents that we are able to charge. Our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our
ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock
could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly relet
or renew the leases for all or a substantial portion of expiring
leases, if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting is
significantly lower than expected, or if our reserves for these
purposes prove inadequate.

Real Estate Investments are
Illiquid.

Because real estate investments are relatively
illiquid, our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response
to economic or other conditions is limited. The limitations in
the Internal Revenue Code and related


regulations on a real estate investment trust
holding property for sale may affect our ability to sell
properties without adversely affecting dividends to our
stockholders. The relative illiquidity of our holdings and
Internal Revenue Code prohibitions and related regulations could
impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the
performance of our investments and could adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and our
ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.

A Significant Number of Our Properties are
Located in California.

Our industrial properties located in California
as of December 31, 2002, represented 28.4% of the aggregate
square footage of our industrial operating properties as of
December 31, 2002, and 33.9% of our industrial annualized
base rent. Annualized base rent means the monthly contractual
amount under existing leases as of December 31, 2002,
multiplied by 12. This amount excludes expense reimbursements
and rental abatements. Our revenue from, and the value of, our
properties located in California may be affected by a number of
factors, including local real estate conditions (such as
oversupply of or reduced demand for industrial properties) and
the local economic climate. Business layoffs, downsizing,
industry slowdowns, changing demographics, and other factors may
adversely impact the local economic climate. A downturn in
California’s economy, fiscal situation or real estate
conditions could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock. Certain of our
properties are also subject to possible loss from seismic
activity. See “Some Potential Losses are not Covered by
Insurance.”

Some Potential Losses are not Covered by
Insurance.

We carry commercial liability, property and
rental loss insurance covering all properties owned and managed
by us, with policy specifications and insured limits that we
believe are adequate and appropriate under the circumstances
given relative risks, the cost of such coverage and industry
practice. Certain losses such as losses due to terrorism,
windstorms, floods or seismic activity may be insured subject to
certain limitations, including large deductibles or co-payments
and policy limits. Although we have obtained coverage for
certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and
insured limits that we believe are commercially reasonable, it
is not certain that we will be able to renew coverage or collect
under such policies. From time to time, we evaluate the amount
of earthquake coverage that we carry for all properties owned
and managed by us, to assess whether, in our good faith
discretion, the coverage is adequate. We may incur material
losses in excess of insurance proceeds and we may not be able to
continue to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates.
In addition, there are certain losses that are not generally
insured because it is not economically feasible to insure
against them, including losses due to riots or acts of war. If
an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs
with respect to one or more of our properties, then we could
lose the capital we invested in the properties, as well as the
anticipated future revenue from the properties and, in the case
of debt, which is with recourse to us, we would remain obligated
for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to
the properties. Moreover, as the general partner of the
operating partnership, we generally will be liable for all of
the operating partnership’s unsatisfied obligations other
than non-recourse obligations, including any obligations
incurred by the operating partnership as the general partner of
the co-investment joint ventures. Any such liabilities could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock.

A number of our properties are located in areas
that are known to be subject to earthquake activity, including
California where, as of December 31, 2002, 295 industrial
buildings, aggregating approximately 23.9 million square
feet (representing 28.4% of our industrial operating properties
based on aggregate square footage and 33.9% based on industrial
annualized base rent), are located. We carry replacement-cost
earthquake insurance on all of our properties located in areas
historically subject to seismic activity, subject to coverage
limitations and deductibles that we believe are commercially
reasonable. This insurance coverage also applies to the
properties managed by AMB Capital Partners, LLC, with a single
aggregate policy limit and deductible applicable to those
properties and our properties. Through an annual analysis
prepared by outside consultants, we evaluate our earthquake
insurance coverage in light of current industry practice and
determine the appropriate amount of earthquake insurance to
carry, which we believe is commercially


reasonable. We may incur material losses in
excess of insurance proceeds and we may not be able to continue
to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates.

We are Subject to Risks and Liabilities In
Connection With Properties Owned Through Joint Ventures, Limited
Liability Companies and Partnerships.

As of December 31, 2002, we had ownership
interests in several joint ventures, limited liability companies
or partnerships with third parties, as well as interests in
three unconsolidated entities. As of December 31, 2002, we
owned approximately 33.7 million square feet (excluding
three unconsolidated joint ventures) of our properties through
these entities. We may make additional investments through these
ventures in the future and presently plan to do so. Such
partners may share certain approval rights over major decisions.
Partnership, limited liability company or joint venture
investments may involve risks such as the following:

We will, however, generally seek to maintain
sufficient control of our partnerships, limited liability
companies, and joint ventures to permit us to achieve our
business objectives. Our organizational documents do not limit
the amount of available funds that we may invest in
partnerships, limited liability companies or joint ventures. The
occurrence of one or more of the events described above could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock.

We May be Unable to Consummate Acquisitions
on Advantageous Terms or Acquisitions May Not Perform As We
Expect.

We intend to continue to acquire primarily
industrial properties. The acquisition of and investment in
properties entails various risks. In addition to the general
investment risks associated with any real estate investment, our
investments may not perform in accordance with our expectations
or our cost estimates for bringing an acquired property up to
market standards may prove inaccurate. Further, we may not be
able to acquire additional properties on acceptable terms. We
anticipate significant competition for attractive investment
opportunities from other major real estate investors with
significant capital including both publicly-traded real estate
investment trusts and private institutional investment funds. In
addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions through a
combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit facility,
proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the operating
partnership (including issuances of limited partnership units by
the operating partnership or its subsidiaries) and proceeds from
property divestitures, which could have an adverse effect on our
cash flow. Our inability to finance future acquisitions on
favorable terms, the failure of acquisitions to conform with our
expectations or investment criteria, or our failure to timely
reinvest the proceeds from property divestitures could adversely
affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow
and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our
stock.


We May be Unable to Complete Divestitures
on Advantageous Terms.

We have decided to divest ourselves of retail
centers and industrial properties that are not in our core
markets or which do not meet our strategic objectives. The
divestitures of the properties are subject to negotiation of
acceptable terms and other customary conditions. Our ability to
dispose of properties on advantageous terms is dependent upon
factors beyond our control, including competition from other
owners (including other real estate investment trusts) that are
attempting to dispose of industrial and retail properties and
the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of
our properties. Our inability to dispose of properties on
favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property
divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock.

We May be Unable to Complete Renovation and
Development Projects on Advantageous Terms.

The real estate development business, including
the renovation and rehabilitation of existing properties,
involves significant risks that include the following:

These risks could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flow, and ability to pay
dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.

Debt Financing

We Could Incur More Debt.

It is our policy to incur debt, either directly
or through our subsidiaries, only if it will not cause our share
of debt-to-total market capitalization ratio to exceed
approximately 45%. The aggregate amount of indebtedness that we
may incur under our policy varies directly with the valuation of
our capital stock and the number of shares of capital stock
outstanding. Accordingly, we would be able to incur additional
indebtedness under our policy as a result of increases in the
market price per share of our common stock or other outstanding
classes of capital stock, and future issuance of shares of our
capital stock. However, our organizational documents do not
contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may
incur. Accordingly, our board of directors could alter or
eliminate this policy. If we change this policy, then we could
become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt
service that could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock.

Scheduled Debt Payments Could Adversely
Affect Our Financial Condition.

We are subject to risks normally associated with
debt financing, including that cash flow will be insufficient to
pay dividends to our stockholders, that we will be unable to
refinance existing indebtedness on our properties (which in all
cases will not have been fully amortized at maturity), and that
the terms of


refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms
of existing indebtedness. As of December 31, 2002, we had
total debt outstanding of $2.2 billion.

In addition, we guarantee the operating
partnership’s obligations with respect to the senior debt
securities referenced in our financial statements. If we are
unable to refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity
or pay them with proceeds of other capital transactions, then we
expect that our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to
pay dividends to our stockholders and to repay all such maturing
debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors
at the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to
make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest
rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to
that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased
interest expense would adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock. In addition, if we
mortgage one or more of our properties to secure payment of
indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, then
the property could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the
mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. A
foreclosure on one or more of our properties could adversely
affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow
and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our
stock.

Rising Interest Rates Could Adversely
Affect Our Cash Flow.

As of December 31, 2002, we had
$45.5 million outstanding under our Alliance Fund II
secured credit facility, $95.0 million outstanding on our
unsecured credit facility, and we had seven secured loans with
an aggregate principal amount of $65.6 million that bear
interest at variable rates (with weighted average interest rate
of 3.5% as of December 31, 2002). In addition, we may incur
other variable rate indebtedness in the future. Increases in
interest rates on this indebtedness could increase our interest
expense, which would adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock. Accordingly, in the
future, we may engage in transactions to limit our exposure to
rising interest rates.

We Are Dependent on External Sources of
Capital.

In order to qualify as a real estate investment
trust under the Internal Revenue Code, we are required each year
to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our real
estate investment trust taxable income (determined without
regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net
capital gain) and we are subject to tax on our income to the
extent it is not distributed. Because of this distribution
requirement, we may not be able to fund all future capital
needs, including capital needs in connection with acquisitions,
from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund capital
needs we rely on third-party sources of capital, which we may
not be able to obtain on favorable terms or at all. Our access
to third-party sources of capital depends upon a number of
factors, including:

We Could Default on Cross-Collateralized
and Cross-Defaulted Debt.

As of December 31, 2002, we had 26
non-recourse secured loans that are cross-collateralized by 60
properties, totaling $711.7 million (not including
unamortized debt premium). If we default on any of these loans,
then we could be required to repay the aggregate of all
indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to
avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties
within the applicable pool. Foreclosure on our properties, or
our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could
adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock. In addition, our credit facilities and senior
debt securities contain certain cross-default


provisions, which are triggered in the event that
our other material indebtedness is in default. These
cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure
the credit facilities and the senior debt securities in addition
to any mortgage or other debt that is in default, which could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock.

Contingent or Unknown Liabilities Could
Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition.

Our predecessors have been in existence for
varying lengths of time up to 19 years. At the time of our
formation we acquired the assets of these entities subject to
all of their potential existing liabilities. There may be
current liabilities or future liabilities arising from prior
activities that we are not aware of and therefore have not
disclosed in this report. We assumed these liabilities as the
surviving entity in the various merger and contribution
transactions that occurred at the time of our formation.
Existing liabilities for indebtedness generally were taken into
account in connection with the allocation of the operating
partnership’s limited partnership units or shares of our
common stock in the formation transactions, but no other
liabilities were taken into account for these purposes. We do
not have recourse against our predecessors or any of their
respective stockholders or partners or against any individual
account investors with respect to any unknown liabilities.
Unknown liabilities might include the following:

Certain customers may claim that the formation
transactions gave rise to a right to purchase the premises that
they occupy. We do not believe any such claims would be material
and, to date, no such claims have been filed. See
“— Government Regulations — We
Could Encounter Costly Environmental Problems” below
regarding the possibility of undisclosed environmental
conditions potentially affecting the value of our properties.
Undisclosed material liabilities in connection with the
acquisition of properties, entities and interests in properties,
or entities could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow, and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock.

Conflicts of Interest

Some of Our Directors and Executive
Officers are Involved in Other Real Estate Activities and
Investments.

Some of our executive officers own interests in
real estate-related businesses and investments. These interests
include minority ownership interests in Institutional Housing
Partners, L.P., a residential housing finance company
(Messrs. Burke and Moghadam) and Aspire Development, Inc.
and Aspire Development, L.P., developers of properties not
within our investment criteria (Messrs. Belmonte, Burke and
Moghadam). The continued involvement in other real
estate-related activities by some of our executive officers and
directors could divert management’s attention from our
day-to-day operations. Our executive officers have entered into
non-competition agreements with us pursuant to which they have
agreed not to engage in any activities, directly or indirectly,
in respect of commercial real estate, and not to make any
investment in respect of any industrial or retail real estate,
other than through ownership of not more than 5% of the
outstanding shares of a public company engaged in such
activities or through the existing investments referred to in
this report. State law may limit our ability to enforce these
agreements.


Certain of Our Executive Officers and
Directors May Have Conflicts of Interest with Us in Connection
with Other Properties that They Own or Control.

As of December 31, 2002, Aspire Development,
L.P. owned interests in several retail development projects in
the U.S., which are individually less than 10,000 feet. In
addition, Messrs. Moghadam and Burke, each a founder and
director, own less than 1% interests in two partnerships that
own office buildings in various markets; these interests have
negligible value. Luis A. Belmonte, an executive officer, owns
less than a 10% interest, representing an estimated value of
$150,000, in a limited partnership, which owns an office
building located in Oakland, California.

In addition, several of our executive officers
individually own:

•

less than 1% interests in the stocks of certain
    publicly-traded real estate investment trusts;

•

certain interests in and rights to developed and
    undeveloped real property located outside the United States; and

•

certain other de minimus holdings in equity
    securities of real estate companies.

Thomas W. Tusher, a member of our board of
directors and chair of the board’s compensation committee,
is a limited partner in a venture in which Messrs. Moghadam and
Burke are two of three members in the controlling general
partner. The venture owns an office building. Mr. Tusher
owns a 20% interest in the venture and Messrs. Moghadam and
Burke each have a 26.7% interest in the venture. These interests
in the venture have negligible value. The venture was formed in
1985, prior to the time of our initial public offering, and we
continue to act as property and asset manager of the office
building, for which services the venture pays us a fee. In our
capacity as property and asset manager, we oversee the
management and operation of the property, including the
obtaining of financing and negotiating with third party lenders
in connection therewith. The largest tenant, which occupies 68%
of the building, filed for bankruptcy in January 2003.

We believe that the properties and activities set
forth above generally do not directly compete with any of our
properties. However, it is possible that a property in which an
executive officer or director, or an affiliate of an executive
officer or director, has an interest may compete with us in the
future if we were to invest in a property similar in type and in
close proximity to that property. In addition, the continued
involvement by our executive officers and directors in these
properties could divert management’s attention from our
day-to-day operations. Our policy prohibits us from acquiring
any properties from our executive officers or their affiliates
without the approval of the disinterested members of our board
of directors with respect to that transaction.

Our Role as General Partner of the
Operating Partnership May Conflict with the Interests of
Stockholders.

As the general partner of the operating
partnership, we have fiduciary obligations to the operating
partnership’s limited partners, the discharge of which may
conflict with the interests of our stockholders. In addition,
those persons holding limited partnership units will have the
right to vote as a class on certain amendments to the
partnership agreement of the operating partnership and
individually to approve certain amendments that would adversely
affect their rights. The limited partners may exercise these
voting rights in a manner that conflicts with the interests of
our stockholders. In addition, under the terms of the operating
partnership’s partnership agreement, holders of limited
partnership units will have certain approval rights with respect
to certain transactions that affect all stockholders but which
they may not exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of
all stockholders.

Our Directors, Executive Officers, and
Significant Stockholders Could Act in a Manner that is Not in
the Best Interest of All Stockholders.

As of December 31, 2002, our two largest
stockholders, Morgan Stanley Investment Management, Inc. (with
respect to various client accounts for which Morgan Stanley
Investment Management, Inc. serves as investment advisor) and
ABP Investments U.S. (with respect to various client accounts
for which ABP Investments U.S. serves as investment advisor)
together beneficially owned 10.8% of our outstanding common
stock. In addition, our executive officers and directors
beneficially owned 4.3% of our outstanding common stock as of
December 31, 2002, and will have influence on our
management and operation and, as


stockholders, will have influence on the outcome
of any matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. This
influence might be exercised in a manner that is inconsistent
with the interests of other stockholders. Although there is no
understanding or arrangement for these directors, officers, and
stockholders and their affiliates to act in concert, these
parties would be in a position to exercise significant influence
over our affairs if they choose to do so.

Government Regulations

Many laws and governmental regulations are
applicable to our properties and changes in these laws and
regulations, or their interpretation by agencies and the courts,
occur frequently.

We May Incur Costs to Comply with Americans
with Disabilities Act.

Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places
of public accommodation must meet certain federal requirements
related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with
the Americans with Disabilities Act might require us to remove
structural barriers to handicapped access in certain public
areas where such removal is “readily achievable.” If
we fail to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, then
we might be required to pay fines to the government or damages
to private litigants. The impact of application of the Americans
with Disabilities Act to our properties, including the extent
and timing of required renovations, is uncertain. If we are
required to make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the
Americans with Disabilities Act, then our cash flow and the
amounts available for dividends to our stockholders may be
adversely affected.

We Could Encounter Environmental
Problems.

Federal, state and local laws and regulations
relating to the protection of the environment impose liability
on a current or previous owner or operator of real estate for
contamination resulting from the presence or discharge of
hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at the
property. A current or previous owner may be required to
investigate and clean up contamination at or migrating from a
site. These laws typically impose liability and clean-up
responsibility without regard to whether the owner or operator
knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more
than one person may have been responsible for the contamination,
each person covered by the environmental laws may be held
responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition,
third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for
damages based on personal injury, property damage, or other
costs, including investigation and clean-up costs, resulting
from environmental contamination present at or emanating from
that site.

Environmental laws also govern the presence,
maintenance and removal of asbestos. These laws require that
owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly
manage and maintain the asbestos, that they adequately inform or
train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that
they undertake special precautions, including removal or other
abatement in the event that asbestos is disturbed during
renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose
fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failing
to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to
seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury
associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. Some of our
properties may contain asbestos-containing building materials.

Some of our properties are leased or have been
leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use,
store, or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous
or toxic substances. These operations create a potential for the
release of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic
substances. Some of our properties are adjacent to or near other
properties that have contained or currently contain petroleum
products or other hazardous or toxic substances. In addition,
certain of our properties are on, are adjacent to, or are near
other properties upon which others, including former owners or
customers of the properties, have engaged or may in the future
engage in activities that may release petroleum products or
other hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time, we may
acquire properties, or interests in properties, with known
adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the
environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are
quantifiable and the acquisition will yield a superior
risk-adjusted return. Environmental issues for each


property are evaluated and quantified prior to
acquisition. The costs of environmental investigation, clean-up
and monitoring are underwritten into the cost of the acquisition
and appropriate environmental insurance is obtained for the
property. In connection with certain divested properties, we
have agreed to remain responsible for, and to bear the cost of,
remediating or monitoring certain environmental conditions on
the properties.

All of our properties were subject to a Phase I
or similar environmental assessments by independent
environmental consultants at the time of acquisition. Phase I
assessments are intended to discover and evaluate information
regarding the environmental condition of the surveyed property
and surrounding properties and include an historical review, a
public records review, an investigation of the surveyed site and
surrounding properties, and preparation and issuance of a
written report. We may perform additional Phase II testing if
recommended by the independent environmental consultant. Phase
II testing may include the collection and laboratory analysis of
soil and groundwater samples, completion of surveys for
asbestos-containing building materials, and any other testing
that the consultant considers prudent in order to test for the
presence of hazardous materials.

None of the environmental assessments of our
properties has revealed any environmental liability that we
believe would have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Furthermore, we are not aware of any such material environmental
liability. Nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments do
not reveal all environmental liabilities and that there are
material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware or
that known environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities
that are materially greater than anticipated. Moreover, the
current environmental condition of our properties may be
affected by customers, the condition of land, operations in the
vicinity of the properties (such as releases from underground
storage tanks), or by third-parties unrelated to us. If the
costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws
and regulations exceed our budgets for these items, then our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, and
ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock
could be adversely affected.

Our Financial Condition Could be Adversely
Affected if We Fail to Comply with Other
Regulations.

Our properties are also subject to various
federal, state and local regulatory requirements such as state
and local fire and life-safety requirements. If we fail to
comply with these requirements, then we might incur fines by
governmental authorities or be required to pay awards of damages
to private litigants. We believe that our properties are
currently in substantial compliance with all such regulatory
requirements. However, these requirements may change or new
requirements may be imposed that could require significant
unanticipated expenditures by us. Any such unanticipated
expenditure could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow, and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock.

Federal Income Tax Risks

Our Failure to Qualify as a Real Estate
Investment Trust Would Have Serious Adverse Consequences to Our
Stockholders.

We elected to be taxed as a real estate
investment trust under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal
Revenue Code commencing with our taxable year ended
December 31, 1997. We currently intend to operate so as to
qualify as a real estate investment trust under the Internal
Revenue Code and believe that our current organization and
method of operation comply with the rules and regulations
promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code to enable us to
continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust. However,
it is possible that we have been organized or have operated in a
manner that would not allow us to qualify as a real estate
investment trust, or that our future operations could cause us
to fail to qualify. Qualification as a real estate investment
trust requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an
annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly
technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which
there are only limited judicial and administrative
interpretations, and involves the determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our
control. For example, in order to qualify as a real estate
investment trust, we must derive at least 95% of our gross
income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, we must
pay dividends to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90%
of our real estate investment


trust taxable income (determined without regard
to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains)
and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis.
These provisions and the applicable treasury regulations are
more complicated in our case because we hold our assets through
the operating partnership. Legislation, new regulations,
administrative interpretations or court decisions could
significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification
as a real estate investment trust or the federal income tax
consequences of such qualification. However, we are not aware of
any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our
ability to operate as a real estate investment trust.

If we fail to qualify as a real estate investment
trust in any taxable year, then we will be required to pay
federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum
tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we
are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we
would be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment
trust for the four taxable years following the year in which we
lost qualification. If we lose our real estate investment trust
status, then our net earnings available for investment or
distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for
each of the years involved. In addition, we would no longer be
required to make distributions to our stockholders.

We Pay Some Taxes.

Even if we qualify as a real estate investment
trust, we will be required to pay certain state, local and
foreign taxes on our income and property. In addition, we will
be required to pay federal and state income tax on the net
taxable income, if any, from the activities conducted through
our taxable REIT subsidiaries, IMD Holding Corporation and
Headlands Realty Corporation, thereby reducing their cash
available for distribution to us.

Certain Property Transfers May Generate
Prohibited Transaction Income.

From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise
dispose of some of our properties. Under the Internal Revenue
Code, any gain resulting from transfers of properties that we
hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the
ordinary course of business would be treated as income from a
prohibited transaction. We would be required to pay a 100%
penalty tax on that income. Since we acquire properties for
investment purposes, we believe that any transfer or disposal of
property by us would not be deemed by the Internal Revenue
Service to be a prohibited transaction with any resulting gain
allocable to us being subject to a 100% penalty tax. However,
whether property is held for investment purposes is a question
of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances
surrounding the particular transaction. The Internal Revenue
Service may contend that certain transfers or disposals of
properties by us are prohibited transactions. While we believe
that the Internal Revenue Service would not prevail in any such
dispute, if the IRS were to argue successfully that a transfer
or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction,
then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain
allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. In addition,
any income from a prohibited transaction may adversely affect
our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a
real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes.

We May Be Unable to Manage Our
Growth.

Our business has grown rapidly and continues to
grow through property acquisitions and developments. If we fail
to effectively manage our growth, then our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock could be adversely
affected.

Our International Growth is Subject to Special
Political and Monetary Risks.

We have and expect to continue to acquire or
develop additional properties in foreign countries. Local
markets affect our operations and, therefore, we would be
subject to economic fluctuations in foreign locations. Our
international operations also would be subject to the usual
risks of doing business abroad such as the revaluation of
currencies, revisions in tax treaties or other laws governing
the taxation of revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds,
and, in certain parts of the world, property rights uncertainty
and political instability. We cannot predict the likelihood that
any such developments may occur. Further, we may enter into


agreements with non-U.S. entities that are
governed by the laws of, and are subject to dispute resolution
in, the courts of another country or region. We cannot
accurately predict whether such a forum would provide us with an
effective and efficient means of resolving disputes that may
arise. Even if we are able to obtain a satisfactory decision
through arbitration or a court proceeding, we could have
difficulty enforcing any award or judgment on a timely basis.
Our business has grown rapidly and continues to grow through
property acquisitions and developments. If we fail to
effectively manage our international growth, then our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
dividends on, and the market price of, our stock could be
adversely affected.

We Are Dependent On Our Key
Personnel.

We depend on the efforts of our executive
officers. While we believe that we could find suitable
replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services
or the limitation of their availability could adversely affect
our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.
We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive
officers.

Ownership of Our Stock

Limitations in Our Charter and Bylaws Could
Prevent a Change in Control.

Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may
delay, defer, or prevent a change in control or other
transaction that could provide the holders of our common stock
with the opportunity to realize a premium over the
then-prevailing market price for the common stock. To maintain
our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal
income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our
outstanding stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by
five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue
Code to include certain entities) during the last half of a
taxable year after the first taxable year for which a real
estate investment trust election is made. Furthermore, our
common stock must be held by a minimum of 100 persons for at
least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year (or a
proportionate part of a short tax year). In addition, if we, or
an owner of 10% or more of our stock, actually or constructively
owns 10% or more of one of our customers (or a tenant of any
partnership in which we are a partner), then the rent received
by us (either directly or through any such partnership) from
that tenant will not be qualifying income for purposes of the
real estate investment trust gross income tests of the Internal
Revenue Code. To facilitate maintenance of our qualification as
a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes,
we prohibit the ownership, actually or by virtue of the
constructive ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code,
by any single person of more than 9.8% (by value or number of
shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the issued and
outstanding shares of our common stock and more than 9.8% (by
value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the
issued and outstanding shares of our Series A preferred
stock, and we also prohibit the ownership, actually or
constructively, of any shares of our other preferred stock by
any single person so that no such person, taking into account
all of our stock so owned by such person, may own in excess of
9.8% of our issued and outstanding capital stock. We refer to
this limitation as the “ownership limit.” Shares
acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be
transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated
charitable beneficiary. Any person who acquires shares in
violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any
dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or
receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in
excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the
amount realized from the sale. A transfer of shares in violation
of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. The
ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or
preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely
affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over
the then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common
stock in connection with such transaction.

Our charter authorizes us to issue additional
shares of common and preferred stock and to establish the
preferences, rights and other terms of any series or class of
preferred stock that we issue. Although our board of directors
has no intention to do so at the present time, it could
establish a series or class of preferred stock that could delay,
defer, or prevent a transaction or a change in control that
might involve a premium price for the common stock or otherwise
be in the best interests of our stockholders.


Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law also
contain other provisions that may delay, defer, or prevent a
transaction, including a change in control, that might involve
payment of a premium price for the common stock or otherwise be
in the best interests of our stockholders. Those provisions
include the following:

These provisions may impede various actions by
stockholders without approval of our board of directors, which
in turn may delay, defer or prevent a transaction involving a
change of control.

Various Market Conditions Affect the Price
of Our Stock.

As with other publicly-traded equity securities,
the market price of our stock will depend upon various market
conditions that may change from time to time. Among the market
conditions that may affect the market price of our stock are the
following:

Other factors such as governmental regulatory
action and changes in tax laws could also have a significant
impact on the future market price of our stock.

Earnings and Cash Dividends, Asset Value
and Market Interest Rates Affect the Price of Our
Stock.

The market value of the equity securities of a
real estate investment trust generally is based primarily upon
the market’s perception of the real estate investment
trust’s growth potential and its current and potential
future earnings and cash dividends. It is based secondarily upon
the real estate market value of the underlying assets. For that
reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher
or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent that
we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working
capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while
increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not
correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. Our
failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to
future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect
the market price of our stock. Another factor that may influence
the price of our stock will be the distribution yield on the
stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock) relative to
market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates
might lead prospective purchasers of our stock to expect a
higher distribution yield, which would adversely affect the
market price of the stock. If the market price of our stock
declines significantly, then we might


breach certain covenants with respect to debt
obligations, which might adversely affect our liquidity and
ability to make future acquisitions and our ability to pay
dividends to our stockholders.

If We Issue Additional Securities, then the
Investment of Existing Stockholders Will Be
Diluted.

We have authority to issue shares of common stock
or other equity or debt securities in exchange for property or
otherwise. Similarly, we may cause the operating partnership to
issue additional limited partnership units in exchange for
property or otherwise. Existing stockholders will have no
preemptive right to acquire any additional securities issued by
us or the operating partnership and any issuance of additional
equity securities could result in dilution of an existing
stockholder’s investment.

We Could Change Our Investment and
Financing Policies without a Vote of Stockholders.

Subject to our current investment policy to
maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust
(unless a change is approved by our board of directors under
certain circumstances), our board of directors will determine
our investment and financing policies, our growth strategy and
our debt, capitalization, distribution and operating policies.
Although the board of directors has no present intention to
revise or amend these strategies and policies, they may do so at
any time without a vote of stockholders. Accordingly,
stockholders will have no control over changes in our strategies
and policies (other than through the election of directors), and
any such changes may not serve the interests of all stockholders
and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of
operations, including our ability to pay dividends to our
stockholders.

Shares Available for Future Sale Could
Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Common
Stock.

We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future
sales of shares of our common stock, or the availability of
shares of our common stock for future sale, will have on its
market price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our
common stock in the public market (or upon exchange of limited
partnership units in the operating partnership) or the
perception that such sales (or exchanges) might occur could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

All shares of common stock issuable upon the
redemption of limited partnership units in the operating
partnership will be deemed to be “restricted
securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the
Securities Act and may not be transferred unless registered
under the Securities Act or an exemption from registration is
available, including any exemption from registration provided
under Rule 144. In general, upon satisfaction of certain
conditions, Rule 144 permits the holder to sell certain
amounts of restricted securities one year following the date of
acquisition of the restricted securities from us and, after two
years, permits unlimited sales by persons unaffiliated with us.
Commencing generally on the first anniversary of the date of
acquisition of common limited partnership units (or such other
date agreed to by the operating partnership and the holders of
the units), the operating partnership may redeem common limited
partnership units at the request of the holders for cash (based
on the fair market value of an equivalent number of shares of
common stock at the time of redemption) or, at the option of the
operating partnership, exchange the common limited partnership
units for an equal number of shares of our common stock, subject
to certain antidilution adjustments. The operating partnership
had issued and outstanding 4,846,387 common limited partnership
units as of December 31, 2002. As of December 31,
2002, we had reserved 17,336,237 shares of common stock for
issuance under our Stock Option and Incentive Plans (not
including shares that we have already issued) and, as of
December 31, 2002, we had granted to certain directors,
officers and employees options to purchase 8,764,912 shares of
common stock (excluding forfeitures and 896,152 shares that we
have issued pursuant to the exercise of options). As of
December 31, 2002, we had granted 717,611 restricted shares
of common stock, excluding 36,200 shares that have been
forfeited. In addition, we may issue additional shares of common
stock and the operating partnership may issue additional limited
partnership units in connection with the acquisition of
properties. In connection with the issuance of common limited
partnership units to other transferors of properties, and in
connection with the issuance of the performance units, we have
agreed to file registration statements covering the issuance of
shares of common stock upon the exchange of the common limited
partnership units. We have also filed registration statements
with respect to the shares of common stock issuable under our
stock option and incentive plans. These registration statements
and registration rights


generally allow shares of common stock covered
thereby, including shares of common stock issuable upon exchange
of limited partnership units, including performance units, or
the exercise of options or restricted shares of common stock, to
be transferred or resold without restriction under the
Securities Act. We may also agree to provide registration rights
to any other person who may become an owner of the operating
partnership’s limited partnership units.

Future sales of the shares of common stock
described above could adversely affect the market price of our
common stock. The existence of the operating partnership’s
limited partnership units, options, and shares of common stock
reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited partnership
units, and the exercise of options and registration rights
referred to above, also may adversely affect the terms upon
which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale
of equity securities.

Item 7a.

Qualitative
Disclosures about Market Risk

Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse
changes in market prices and interest rates. Our future earnings
and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing market rates.
Accordingly, we manage our market risk by matching projected
cash inflows from operating, investing and financing activities
with projected cash outflows for debt service, acquisitions,
capital expenditures, distributions to stockholders and
unitholders, and other cash requirements. The majority of our
outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which minimizes the
risk of fluctuating interest rates. Our exposure to market risk
includes: (1) interest rate fluctuations in connection with
our credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings; and
(2) our ability to incur more debt without stockholder
approval, thereby increasing our debt service obligations, which
could adversely affect our cash flows. As of December 31,
2002, we had no interest rate caps or swaps. See
“Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Liquidity and Capital
Resources — Capital
Resources — Market Capitalization.”

The table below summarizes the market risks
associated with our fixed and variable rated debt outstanding
before unamortized debt premiums of $9.8 million as of
December 31, 2002:

(1)

Represents 93.9% of all outstanding debt.

(2)

Represents 6.1% of all outstanding debt.

If market rates of interest on our variable rate
debt increased by 10% (or approximately 27 basis points), then
the increase in interest expense on the variable rate debt would
be $0.6 million annually. As of December 31, 2002, the
estimated fair value of our fixed rate debt was
$2,152.6 million based on our estimate of current market
interest rates.

Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

See “Item 14. Exhibits, Financial
Statement Schedules, and Reports of Form 8-K.”

Item 9.

Changes
in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

None.


PART III

Items 10, 11, 12 and 13.

Directors and Executive Officers of AMB
Property Corporation, Executive Compensation, Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management, and Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required by Item 10,
Item 11, Item 12 and Item 13 will be contained in
a definitive proxy statement for our Annual Meeting of
Stockholders which we anticipate will be filed no later than
120 days after the end of our fiscal year pursuant to
Regulation 14A and accordingly these items have been
omitted in accordance with General Instruction G(3) to
Form 10-K.

Item 14.

Controls
and Procedures

We maintain disclosure controls and procedures
that are designed to ensure that information required to be
disclosed in our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, as amended, is recorded, processed, summarized and
reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and
Exchange Commission’s rules and forms, and that such
information is accumulated and communicated to our management,
including our chief executive officer, president and chief
financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions
regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the
disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized
that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed
and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving
the desired control objectives, and our management necessarily
was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the
cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated entities,
which are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
As we do not control or manage these entities, our disclosure
controls and procedures with respect to such entities are
necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain
with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.

Within 90 days prior to the date of this
report, we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and
with the participation of our management, including our chief
executive officer, president and chief financial officer, of the
effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures. Based on the foregoing, our chief
executive officer, president and chief financial officer each
concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective.

There have been no significant changes in our
internal controls or in other factors that could significantly
affect the internal controls subsequent to the date we completed
our evaluation.

PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement
Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1) and (2)

Financial Statements and
Schedules:

The following consolidated financial information
    is included as a separate section of this report on
    Form 10-K.


All other schedules are omitted since the
    required information is not present in amounts sufficient to
    require submission of the schedule or because the information
    required is included in the financial statements and notes
    thereto.

(a)(3) Exhibits:





(b)

Reports on
Form 8-K:

•

AMB Property Corporation filed a Current Report
    on Form 8-K on October 8, 2002, in connection with its
    third quarter 2002 earnings release.

•

AMB Property Corporation filed a Current Report
    on Form 8-K on December 18, 2002, in connection with
    its entrance into an amended and restated $500 million
    unsecured revolving credit agreement that replaced its then
    existing $500 million credit facility that was to mature in
    May 2003.

•

AMB Property Corporation filed a Current Report
    on Form 8-K on January 16, 2003, in connection with
    its fourth quarter 2002 earnings release.

(c)

Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(d)

Financial
Statement Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(1) and (2) above.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, AMB Property
Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on March
17, 2003.

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

By:

/s/ HAMID R. MOGHADAM

Hamid R. Moghadam

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that we, the
undersigned officers and directors of AMB Property Corporation,
hereby severally constitute Hamid R. Moghadam, W. Blake Baird,
David S. Fries and Michael A. Coke, and each of them singly, our
true and lawful attorneys with full power to them, and each of
them singly, to sign for us and in our names in the capacities
indicated below, the Form 10-K filed herewith and any and
all amendments to said Form 10-K, and generally to do all
such things in our names and in our capacities as officers and
directors to enable AMB Property Corporation to comply with the
provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all
requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by
our said attorneys, or any of them, to said Form 10-K and
any and all amendments thereto.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of AMB Property Corporation and in
the capacities and on the dates indicated.



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Hamid R. Moghadam, certify that:

a) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

(5) The registrant’s other certifying
    officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
    evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
    committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or
    persons performing the equivalent function):

a) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls that could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize, and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

(6) The registrant’s other certifying
    officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether or
    not there were significant changes in internal controls or in
    other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
    subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
    any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
    and material weaknesses.

Date: March 17, 2003

By:

/s/ HAMID R. MOGHADAM

Hamid R. Moghadam

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer


I, W. Blake Baird, certify that:

d) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

e) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

f) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

(5) The registrant’s other certifying
    officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
    evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
    committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or
    persons performing the equivalent function):

c) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls that could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize, and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

d) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

(6) The registrant’s other certifying
    officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether or
    not there were significant changes in internal controls or in
    other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
    subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
    any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
    and material weaknesses.

Date: March 17, 2003

By:

/s/ W. BLAKE BAIRD

W. Blake Baird

President and Director


I, Michael A. Coke, certify that:

g) designed such disclosure controls and
    procedures to ensure that material information relating to the
    registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
    known to us by others within those entities, particularly during
    the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

h) evaluated the effectiveness of the
    registrant’s disclosure controls and procedures as of a
    date within 90 days prior to the filing date of this annual
    report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

i) presented in this annual report our
    conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
    and procedures based on our evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

(5) The registrant’s other certifying
    officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
    evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
    committee of the registrant’s board of directors (or
    persons performing the equivalent function):

e) all significant deficiencies in the
    design or operation of internal controls that could adversely
    affect the registrant’s ability to record, process,
    summarize, and report financial data and have identified for the
    registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal
    controls; and

f) any fraud, whether or not material, that
    involves management or other employees who have a significant
    role in the registrant’s internal controls; and

(6) The registrant’s other certifying
    officers and I have indicated in this annual report whether or
    not there were significant changes in internal controls or in
    other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
    subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including
    any corrective actions with regard to significant deficiencies
    and material weaknesses.

Date: March 17, 2003

By:

/s/ MICHAEL A. COKE

Michael A. Coke

Chief Financial Officer and

Executive Vice President


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of AMB Property Corporation:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of
operations, of stockholders’ equity and of cash flows
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position
of AMB Property Corporation and its subsidiaries as of
December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2002 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company’s management; our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We
conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated
financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived
Assets,

and the expense recognition provisions of SFAS
No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-based Compensation,

in
2002.

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

San Francisco, California

January 14, 2003

F-1

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

As of December 31, 2002 and

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.

F-2

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
OPERATIONS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.

F-3

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’
EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.

F-4

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2002,
2001 and 2000

The accompanying notes are an integral part of
these consolidated financial statements.

F-5

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

December 31, 2002 and 2001

1.     Organization
and Formation of the Company

AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation
(the “Company”), commenced operations as a fully
integrated real estate company effective with the completion of
its initial public offering on November 26, 1997. The
Company elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust
(“REIT”) under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), commencing
with its taxable year ended December 31, 1997, and believes
its current organization and method of operation will enable it
to maintain its status as a real estate investment trust. The
Company, through its controlling interest in its subsidiary, AMB
Property, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the
“Operating Partnership”), is engaged in the
acquisition, ownership, operation, management, renovation,
expansion and development of industrial buildings primarily
within key distribution markets worldwide. Unless the context
otherwise requires, the “Company” means AMB Property
Corporation, the Operating Partnership and their other
controlled subsidiaries.

As of December 31, 2002, the Company owned
an approximate 94.5% general partner interest in the Operating
Partnership, excluding preferred units. The remaining 5.5%
limited partner interest is owned by non-affiliated investors
and certain current and former directors and officers of the
Company. For local law purposes, certain properties are owned
through limited partnerships and limited liability companies.
The ownership of such properties through such entities does not
materially affect the Company’s overall ownership interests
in the properties. As the sole general partner of the Operating
Partnership, the Company has full, exclusive and complete
responsibility and discretion in the day-to-day management and
control of the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of
the Operating Partnership are allocated after preferred unit
distributions based on the respective partners’ ownership
interests.

Through the Operating Partnership, the Company
enters into co-investment joint ventures with institutional
investors. These co-investment joint ventures provide the
Company with an additional source of capital and income. As of
December 31, 2002, the Company had investments in five
co-investment joint ventures, which are consolidated for
financial reporting purposes.

AMB Capital Partners, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company (“AMB Capital Partners”), the
successor-in-interest to AMB Investment Management, Inc.
(“AMB Investment Management”), provides real estate
investment services to clients on a fee basis. Headlands Realty
Corporation, a Maryland corporation, conducts a variety of
businesses that include incremental income programs, such as the
Company’s CustomerAssist Program, and development projects
available for sale to third parties. IMD Holding Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, also conducts a variety of businesses that
include development projects available for sale to third
parties. On December 31, 2001, AMB Investment Management
was reorganized through a series of related transactions into
AMB Capital Partners. The Operating Partnership is the managing
member of AMB Capital Partners. On May 31, 2001, the
Operating Partnership acquired 100% of the common stock of AMB
Investment Management and Headlands Realty Corporation from
current and former executive officers of the Company, a former
executive officer of AMB Investment Management, and a director
of Headlands Realty Corporation, thereby acquiring 100% of both
entities’ capital stock. The Operating Partnership began
consolidating its investments in AMB Investment Management and
Headlands Realty Corporation on May 31, 2001. Prior to
May 31, 2001, the Operating Partnership reflected its
investment using the equity method. The net impact of
consolidating AMB Investment Management and Headlands Realty
Corporation was not material.

Any references to the number of buildings, square
footage, customers and occupancy data in the financial statement
footnotes are unaudited.

As of December 31, 2002, the Company owned
904 industrial buildings and seven retail centers, located in 28
markets throughout North America and France. The Company’s
strategy is to become a leading provider of distribution
properties in supply-constrained, infill submarkets located near
key international passenger and

F-6

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

cargo airports, highway systems and seaports in
major metropolitan areas. As of December 31, 2002, the
industrial buildings, principally warehouse distribution
buildings, encompassed approximately 84.2 million rentable
square feet and were 94.6% leased to over 2,300 customers. As of
December 31, 2002, the retail centers, principally
grocer-anchored community shopping centers, encompassed
approximately 1.0 million rentable square feet and were
88.6% leased to 122 customers.

As of December 31, 2002, through AMB Capital
Partners, the Company also managed, but did not have an
ownership interest in, industrial, retail and other properties,
totaling approximately 1.7 million rentable square feet on
behalf of various clients. In addition, the Company has
investments in industrial buildings, totaling approximately
5.5 million rentable square feet, through unconsolidated
joint ventures.

2.     Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation.

These consolidated financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(“GAAP”). The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the financial position, results of operations
and cash flows of the Company, its wholly-owned qualified REIT
and taxable REIT subsidiaries, the Operating Partnership and
joint ventures, in which the Company has a controlling interest.
Third-party equity interests in the Operating Partnership and
joint ventures are reflected as minority interests in the
consolidated financial statements. The Company also has four
non-controlling limited partnership interests in four separate
unconsolidated real estate joint ventures, which are accounted
for under the equity method. All significant intercompany
amounts have been eliminated.

Use of Estimates.

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and
liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Investments in Real Estate.

Investments in real estate are stated
at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost cannot be
recovered, in which case, the carrying value of the property is
reduced to estimated fair value. Carrying values for financial
reporting purposes are reviewed for impairment on a
property-by-property basis whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a property may
not be recoverable. Impairment is recognized when estimated
expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest
charges) are less than the carrying value of the property. The
estimation of expected future net cash flows is inherently
uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current and future
economics and market conditions and the availability of capital.
If impairment analysis assumptions change, then an adjustment to
the carrying value of the Company’s long-lived assets could
occur in the future period in which the assumptions change. To
the extent that a property is impaired, the excess of the
carrying amount of the property over its estimated fair value is
charged to income and is included with gains from disposition of
real estate, net on the consolidated statements of operations.
The Company evaluated its properties held for divestiture and
operating properties for impairment and reduced their carrying
value by $1.2 million, $18.6 million and
$5.9 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The
management of the Company believes that there are no additional
impairments of the carrying values of its investments in real
estate as of December 31, 2002.

F-7

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Depreciation and amortization are calculated
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives
of the real estate investments. The estimated lives and
components of depreciation and amortization expense for the
years ended December 31, are as follows (dollars in
thousands):

The cost of buildings and improvements includes
the purchase price of the property or interest in property,
including legal fees and acquisition costs. Project costs
directly associated with the development and construction of a
real estate project, which include interest and property taxes,
are capitalized as construction in progress. Capitalized
interest related to construction projects for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, was $6.9 million,
$13.7 million and $15.5 million, respectively.

Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are
charged to operations as incurred. Maintenance expenditures
include painting and repair costs. The Company expenses costs as
incurred and does not accrue in advance of planned major
maintenance activities. Significant renovations or betterments
that extend the economic useful life of assets are capitalized
and include parking lot, HVAC and roof replacement costs.

Business Combinations.

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting
Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standard (“SFAS”) No. 141,

Business
Combinations,

and SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets

. SFAS No. 141 and No. 142
require the Company to record at acquisition an intangible asset
or liability for the value attributable to above or below-market
leases. The requirements are applicable to all acquisitions
subsequent to July 1, 2001. The adoption of SFAS
No. 141 and No. 142 did not have a material impact on
the Company’s financial position or results of operations.

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures.

The Company has non-controlling
limited partnership interests in four separate unconsolidated
joint ventures. These investments are not consolidated because
the Company does not exercise significant control over major
operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of
property managers, investment activity and changes in financing.
The Company accounts for the joint ventures using the equity
method of accounting.

Section 1031 Reverse Exchanges.

Reverse exchanges represent loan
agreements with third parties, whereby the Company loans
substantially all funds to the third party to acquire a real
estate investment that we intend to acquire in a
Section 1031 exchange. The loan is secured by the real
estate investment and title is held by the third party. Upon
acquisition of the property by the third party, the Company
records the asset as an investment in real estate and records
the rental income and expenses associated with the property as
the Company retains the risk of loss and the benefits of the
asset. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had one
property in a reverse exchange valued at $13.5 million.

F-8

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Concentration of Credit Risk.

Other real estate companies compete
with the Company in its real estate markets. This results in
competition for customers to occupy space. The existence of
competing properties could have a material impact on the
Company’s ability to lease space and on the amount of rent
received. As of December 31, 2002, the Company did not have
any single tenant that accounted for greater than 2.6% of rental
revenues.

Cash and Cash Equivalents.

Cash and cash equivalents include cash
held in financial institutions and other highly liquid
short-term investments with original maturities of three months
or less.

Restricted Cash.

Restricted cash includes cash held in
escrow in connection with property purchases, Section 1031
exchange accounts and debt and real estate tax payments.

Accounts Receivable.

Accounts receivable includes all
current accounts receivable, net of allowances, other accruals
and deferred rent receivable of $46.3 million and
$37.9 million as of December 31, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. The Company regularly reviews the credit
worthiness of its tenants and adjusts its allowance for doubtful
accounts, straight-line rent receivable balance and tenant
improvement and leasing costs amortization accordingly.

Mortgage Receivable.

Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, the
Company holds a mortgage loan receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC,
an unconsolidated joint venture. Based on borrowing rates
available at December 31, 2002, the estimated fair value of
the mortgage receivable was $15.5 million.

Deferred Financing Costs.

Costs incurred in connection with
financings are capitalized and amortized to interest expense
using the effective-interest method over the term of the related
loan. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, deferred financing
costs were $19.6 million and $17.5 million,
respectively, net of accumulated amortization. Such amounts are
included in other assets on the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.

Investments in Other Companies.

Investments in other companies were
accounted for on a cost basis and realized gains and losses were
included in current earnings. For its investments in private
companies, the Company periodically reviewed its investments and
management determined if the value of such investments had been
permanently impaired. During 2001, the Company recognized losses
on its investments in other companies totaling
$20.8 million, including its investment in Webvan Group,
Inc. The Company had previously recognized gains and losses on
its investment in Webvan Group, Inc. as a component of other
comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2001, the Company
had realized losses on 100% of its investments in such other
companies. The Company recognized no gains or losses in 2002.

Debt.

The
Company’s debt includes both fixed and variable rate
secured debt, unsecured fixed rate debt and unsecured variable
rate credit facilities. Based on borrowing rates available to
the Company at December 31, 2002, the book value and the
estimated fair value of the fixed rate secured and unsecured
debt were $2,019.4 million and $2,152.6 million,
respectively. The carrying value of the variable rate debt
approximates fair value.

Debt Premiums.

Debt
premiums represent the excess of the fair value of debt over the
principal value of debt assumed in connection with the
Company’s initial public offering and subsequent property
acquisitions. The debt premiums are being amortized into
interest expense over the term of the related debt instrument
using the effective interest method. As of December 31,
2002 and 2001, the net unamortized debt premium was
$9.8 million and $14.9 million, respectively, and are
included as a component of secured debt on the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.

Rental Revenues.

The
Company, as a lessor, retains substantially all of the benefits
and risks of ownership of the properties and accounts for its
leases as operating leases. Rental income is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Reimbursements
from customers for real estate taxes and other recoverable
operating expenses are recognized as revenue in the period the
applicable expenses are incurred. In addition, the Company nets
its bad debt expense against rental income for financial
reporting purposes.

F-9

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Such amounts totaled $1.8 million,
$5.2 million and $1.8 million for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Private Capital Income.

Private capital income consists
primarily of asset management fees and acquisition and
disposition fees earned by AMB Capital Partners from joint
ventures and clients. Private capital income also includes
priority distributions from the Operating Partnership’s
co-investment joint ventures.

Interest and Other Income.

Interest and other income consists
primarily of interest income from mortgages receivable and on
cash and cash equivalents.

Stock-based Compensation Expense.

In 2002, the Company adopted the
expense recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation

. The Company
values stock options issued using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model and recognizes this value as an expense
over the period in which the options vest. Under this standard,
recognition of expense for stock options is applied to all
options granted after the beginning of the year of adoption.
Prior to 2002, the Company followed the intrinsic method set
forth in APB Opinion 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees

. During 2002, the Company awarded 2.0 million
stock options to employees. In accordance with SFAS
No. 123, the Company will recognize the associated expense
over the three to five-year vesting periods. Related stock-based
compensation expense was $0.9 million for the year ended
December 31, 2002. The expense is included in general and
administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated
statements of operations. The adoption of SFAS No. 123 is
prospective and the 2002 expense relates only to stock options
granted in 2002. Had compensation cost for the Company’s
stock-based compensation plans been determined based on the fair
value at the grant dates for awards prior to 2002 consistent
with the method of SFAS No. 123, the Company’s pro
forma net income available to common stockholders would have
been reduced by $2.4 million, $3.9 million and $2.7
million and pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share would
have been reduced to $1.37 and $1.34; $1.44 and $1.42; and $1.32
and $1.31, respectively, for the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000.

Discontinued Operations.

In August 2001, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets

. SFAS No. 144 retains SFAS No. 121’s,

Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of,

fundamental provisions
for the: (1) recognition and measurement of impairment of
long-lived assets to be held and used; and (2) measurement
of long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale. Beginning in
2002, the Company reported operating results attributable to
discontinued operations and the applicable gain on disposition
of real estate separately as prescribed under the provisions of
SFAS No. 144. The consolidated statements of operations for
the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 were also
revised to conform with this change.

Financial Instruments.

For its lease denominated in Mexican
pesos, the Company used derivative financial instruments to
manage foreign currency exchange rate risk. The Company adopted
SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
for Hedging Activities,

as amended, on January 1, 2001.
SFAS No. 133 provides comprehensive guidelines for the
recognition and measurement of derivatives and hedging
activities and, specifically, requires all derivatives to be
recorded on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or
liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive
income or income. The Company’s only derivative financial
instruments in effect at December 31, 2002, were a
combination of foreign currency option contracts. These
derivative instruments were marked to market through accumulated
other comprehensive income because they qualified for hedge
accounting treatment. In assessing the fair value of its
financial instruments, the Company uses a variety of methods and
assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks
existing at each balance sheet date. The Company uses quoted
market prices or quotes from brokers or dealers for the same or
similar instruments. These values represent a general
approximation of possible value and may never actually be
realized.

F-10

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Comprehensive Income.

Comprehensive income consists of net
income, unrealized gains and losses on certain investments in
equity securities and foreign currency translation adjustments
and is presented in the consolidated statements of
stockholders’ equity.

Reclassifications.

Certain items in the consolidated
financial statements for prior periods have been reclassified to
conform with current classifications with no effect on net
income or stockholders’ equity.

3.     Transactions
with Affiliates

AMB Capital Partners provides real estate
investment services to clients on a fee basis. Headlands Realty
Corporation, a Maryland corporation, conducts a variety of
businesses that include incremental income programs, such as the
Company’s CustomerAssist Program, and development projects
available for sale to third parties. IMD Holding Corporation, a
Delaware corporation, also conducts a variety of businesses that
include development projects available for sale to third
parties. On December 31, 2001, AMB Investment Management
was reorganized through a series of related transactions into
AMB Capital Partners. The Operating Partnership is the managing
member of AMB Capital Partners. On May 31, 2001, the
Operating Partnership acquired 100% of the common stock of AMB
Investment Management and Headlands Realty Corporation from
current and former executive officers of the Company, a former
executive officer of AMB Investment Management, and a director
of Headlands Realty Corporation, thereby acquiring 100% of both
entities’ capital stock. The Operating Partnership began
consolidating its investments in AMB Investment Management
(predecessor-in-interest to AMB Capital Partners) and Headlands
Realty Corporation on May 31, 2001. Prior to May 31,
2001, the Operating Partnership reflected its investment using
the equity method and did not include expenses incurred by these
two unconsolidated preferred stock subsidiaries in general and
administrative expenses, they were netted with private capital
income. The net impact of consolidating AMB Investment
Management and Headlands Realty Corporation was not material.
General and administrative expenses for the twelve months ended
December 31, 2001, would have been $39.4 million had
the subsidiaries been consolidated beginning January 1,
2001.

4.     Real Estate
Acquisition and Development Activity

During 2002, the Company invested
$403.3 million in operating properties, consisting of 43
industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 5.4 million
square feet, and a parking lot adjacent to Los Angeles
International Airport. The Company’s acquisitions included
the investment of $166.5 million in 31 industrial
buildings, aggregating approximately 3.1 million square
feet through three of the Company’s co-investment joint
ventures.

During 2002, the Company completed industrial
developments valued at $135.4 million, aggregating
approximately 3.1 million square feet. The Company also
initiated new industrial development projects in North America,
France and Singapore valued at $90.6 million, aggregating
approximately 1.8 million square feet.

As of December 31, 2002, the Company had in
its development pipeline: (1) 10 industrial projects, which will
total approximately 1.7 million square feet and have an
aggregate estimated investment of $106.8 million upon
completion; and (2) three development projects available
for sale, which will total approximately 0.6 million square
feet and have an aggregate estimated investment of
$49.1 million upon completion. As of December 31,
2002, the Company and its Development Alliance Partners®
have funded an aggregate of $92.8 million and will need to
fund an estimated additional $63.1 million in order to complete
current and planned projects during 2003 and 2004.

During 2001, the Company invested
$428.3 million in operating properties, consisting of 65
industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 6.8 million
square feet, which included the investment of $219.5 million

F-11

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

in 36 industrial buildings, aggregating
approximately 3.8 million square feet through three of the
Company’s co-investment joint ventures.

During 2001, the Company completed industrial and
retail developments valued at $148.0 million and
$73.9 million, respectively, aggregating approximately
2.3 million and 0.4 million square feet, respectively.
The Company also initiated new industrial development projects
valued at $9.7 million, aggregating approximately
0.2 million square feet.

5.     Property
Divestitures and Properties Held for Divestiture

Property Divestitures.

During 2002, the Company divested
itself of 58 industrial buildings, two retail properties and one
undeveloped retail land parcel, aggregating approximately
5.7 million square feet, for an aggregate price of
$244.0 million, with a resulting net gain of
$9.6 million, which is net of minority interests’
share. During 2002, we also completed and sold six buildings
developed as part of our development-for-sale program for a net
gain of $1.0 million. As of December 31, 2002, we were
developing three projects for sale to third parties.

In June 2002, the Company also sold operating
properties valued at $76.9 million, consisting of 15
industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 1.9 million
square feet, to one of its co-investment joint ventures. The
properties sold to the co-investment joint venture were
reflected at the Company’s historical cost because the
Company controls these joint ventures and, therefore, they were
under common control. The Company recognized a gain of
$3.3 million related to these sales representing the
portion of the properties acquired by the third-party
co-investors. In November 2002, the Company’s joint venture
partner in AMB Partners II, L.P.
(“Partners II”) increased its ownership in
Partners II from 50% to 80% by acquiring 30% of the Operating
Partnership’s partnership interest. The Company recognized
a gain of $6.3 million on the sale of its interest.

During 2001, the Company divested itself of 24
industrial and two retail buildings, aggregating approximately
3.2 million square feet, for an aggregate price of
$193.4 million, with a resulting net gain of
$24.1 million, which is net of minority interests’
share. The resulting net gain is before impairment charges of
$18.6 million and the gain on the Company’s
contributed properties of $17.8 million.

During 2001, the Company also contributed
operating properties valued at $539.2 million, consisting
of 111 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
10.8 million square feet, to three of its co-investment
joint ventures. The properties contributed to the co-investment
joint ventures were reflected at the Company’s historical
cost because the Company controls these joint ventures and,
therefore, they were under common control. The Company
recognized a gain of $17.8 million related to these
contributions representing the portion of the contributed
properties acquired by the third-party co-investors.

During 2000, the Company divested itself of 25
industrial buildings and one retail center, aggregating
approximately 2.5 million square feet, for an aggregate
price of $175.7 million, with a resulting net gain of
$7.0 million. The resulting net gain is before impairment
charges of $5.9 million.

Properties Held for Divestiture.

As of December 31, 2002, the
Company had decided to divest itself of four industrial
properties, one development property and two retail properties
with a net book value of $107.9 million. The properties are
not in the Company’s core markets and do not meet its
current strategic objectives. The divestitures of the properties
are subject to negotiation of acceptable terms and other
customary conditions. Properties held for divestiture are stated
at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less

F-12

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

costs to sell. The following summarizes the
condensed results of operations of the properties held for
divestiture and sold under SFAS No. 144 for the years ended
December 31, (dollars in thousands):

As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, assets and
liabilities of properties held for divestiture consisted of the
following (dollars in thousands):

6.     Mortgages
Receivable

In September 2000, the Company sold a retail
center located in Southern California. The Company carried a
9.5% mortgage note secured by the retail center in the principal
amount of $74.0 million, due September 30, 2002. The
Company received full repayment of this mortgage on July 3,
2002.

Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, the Company
holds a mortgage loan receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC, an
unconsolidated joint venture. The note bears interest at 13.0%
and matures in May 2026. As of December 30, 2002, the
outstanding balance on the note was $13.1 million.

F-13

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

7.     Debt

As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, debt
consisted of the following (dollars in thousands):

Secured debt generally requires monthly principal
and interest payments. The secured debt is secured by deeds of
trust on certain properties and is generally non-recourse. As of
December 31, 2002 and 2001, the total gross investment book
value of those properties securing the debt was
$2.6 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, including
$1.6 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, in
consolidated joint ventures. All of the secured debt bears
interest at fixed rates, except for seven loans with an
aggregate principal amount of $65.6 million as of
December 31, 2002, which bear interest at variable rates
(weighted average interest rate of 3.5% as of December 31,
2002). The secured debt has various covenants. Management
believes that the Company and the Operating Partnership were in
compliance with their financial covenants as of
December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2002, the
Company had 26 non-recourse secured loans, which are
cross-collateralized by 60 properties, totaling
$711.7 million (not including unamortized debt premiums).

Interest on the unsecured senior debt securities
is payable semi-annually. The 2015 notes are putable and
callable in September 2005. The senior debt securities are
subject to various covenants. Management believes that the
Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with
their financial covenants as of December 31, 2002.

In May 2002, the Operating Partnership
commenced a medium-term note program for the issuance of up to
$400.0 million in principal amount of medium-term notes
(unsecured senior debt securities), which will be guaranteed by
the Company. As of December 31, 2002, the Operating
Partnership had issued no medium-term notes under this program.

In August 2000, the Operating Partnership
commenced a medium-term note program for the issuance of up to
$400.0 million in principal amount of medium-term notes,
which are guaranteed by the Company. On

F-14

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

January 14, 2002, the Operating Partnership
completed this program when it issued and sold the remaining
$20.0 million of the notes to Lehman Brothers, Inc., as
principal. The Company has guaranteed the notes, which mature on
January 17, 2007, and bear interest at 5.90% per annum. The
Operating Partnership used the net proceeds of
$19.9 million for general corporate purposes, to partially
repay indebtedness and to acquire and develop additional
properties.

In December 2002, the Operating Partnership
renewed its $500.0 million unsecured revolving line of
credit. The Company guarantees the Operating Partnership’s
obligations under the credit facility. The credit facility
matures in December 2005, has a one-year extension option and is
subject to a 20 basis point annual facility fee. Borrowings
under the credit facility currently bear interest at LIBOR plus
60 basis points. Both the facility fee and the interest rate are
based on the Operating Partnership’s credit rating, which
is currently investment grade. The credit facility includes a
multi-currency component under which up to $150.0 million
may be drawn in either British pounds sterling, euros or yen,
provided that such currency is readily available and freely
transferable and convertible to U.S. dollars. The Reuters
Monitor Money Rates Service reports LIBOR for such currency in
interest periods of 1, 2, 3 or 6 months. The Operating
Partnership has the ability to increase available borrowings to
$700.0 million by adding additional banks to the facility
or obtaining the agreement of existing banks to increase their
commitments. The Company uses its unsecured credit facility
principally for acquisitions and for general working capital
requirements. Monthly debt service payments on the credit
facility are interest only. The total amount available under the
credit facility fluctuates based upon the borrowing base, as
defined in the agreement governing the credit facility,
generally the value of the Company’s unencumbered
properties. As of December 31, 2002, the outstanding
balance on the credit facility was $95.0 million and the
remaining amount available was $379.0 million, net of
outstanding letters of credit (excluding the additional
$200.0 million of potential additional capacity). The
credit facility has various covenants. Management believes that
the Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance
with their financial covenants at December 31, 2002.

In July 2001, AMB Institutional Alliance
Fund II, L.P. (“Alliance Fund II”) obtained
a $150.0 million credit facility secured by the unfunded
capital commitments of the investors in AMB Institutional
Alliance REIT II, Inc. (“Alliance REIT II”)
and the Alliance Fund II. Borrowings currently bear
interest at LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points. As of
December 31, 2002, the outstanding balance was
$45.5 million and the remaining amount available was
$31.2 million, net of outstanding letters of credit and
capital contributions from third-party investors. The credit
facility has various covenants. Management believes that the
Alliance Fund II and the Alliance REIT II were in
compliance with their financial covenants as of
December 31, 2002.

F-15

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2002, the scheduled
maturities of the Company’s total debt, excluding
unamortized debt premiums, were as follows (dollars in
thousands):

8.     Leasing
Activity

Future minimum base rental income due under
non-cancelable leases with customers in effect as of
December 31, 2002, was as follows (dollars in thousands):

The schedule does not reflect future rental
revenues from the renewal or replacement of existing leases and
excludes property operating expense reimbursements.

In addition to minimum rental payments, certain
customers pay reimbursements for their pro rata share of
specified operating expenses, which amounted to
$127.6 million, $116.7 million and $77.9 million
for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. These amounts are included as rental income and
operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements
of operations. Some leases contain options to renew.

9.     Income
Taxes

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under
the Code, commencing with its taxable year ended
December 31, 1997. To qualify as a REIT, the Company must
meet a number of organizational and operational requirements,
including a requirement that it currently distribute at least
90% of its taxable income to its stockholders. It is
management’s current intention to adhere to these
requirements and maintain the Company’s REIT status. As a
REIT, the Company generally will not be subject to corporate
level federal

F-16

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

income tax on net income it distributes currently
to its stockholders. As such, no provision for federal income
taxes has been included in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT
in any taxable year, then it will be subject to federal income
taxes at regular corporate rates (including any applicable
alternative minimum tax) and may not be able to qualify as a
REIT for four subsequent taxable years. Even if the Company
qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to
certain state, local and foreign taxes on its income and
property and to federal income and excise taxes on its
undistributed taxable income. In addition, the Company is
required to pay federal and state income tax on its net taxable
income, if any, from the activities conducted through the
Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries, IMD Holding
Corporation and Headlands Realty Corporation.

The following reconciles net income available to
common stockholders to taxable income available to common
stockholders for the years ended December 31, (dollars in
thousands):

(1)

Primarily due to straight-line rent, prepaid
    rent, joint venture accounting and debt premium amortization
    timing differences.

For income tax purposes, distributions paid to
common stockholders consist of ordinary income, capital gains or
a combination thereof. For the years ended December 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000, the Company elected to distribute all of
its taxable capital gain. Dividends paid or payable per common
share for the years ended December 31, were taxable as
follows:

10.     Minority
Interests in Consolidated Joint Ventures and Preferred
Units

Minority interests in the Company represent the
limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and
interests held by certain third parties in several real estate
joint ventures, aggregating approximately 33.8 million
square feet, which are consolidated for financial reporting
purposes. Such investments are consolidated because the Company
owns a majority interest or exercises significant control over
major operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection
of property managers, investment activity and changes in
financing.

Through the Operating Partnership, the Company
enters into co-investment joint ventures with institutional
investors. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had
investments in five co-investment joint ventures with a gross
book value of $1.6 billion, which are consolidated for
financial reporting purposes and

F-17

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

which are discussed below. The Company’s
five co-investment joint ventures are engaged in the
acquisition, ownership, operation, management and, in some
cases, the renovation, expansion and development of industrial
buildings in target markets nationwide.

Our co-investment joint ventures at
December 31, 2002 (dollars in thousands):

On July 31, 2002, AMB Property II, L.P., one
of the Company’s subsidiaries, repurchased 130,000 of its
7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited
Partnership Units and all 20,000 of its outstanding 7.95%
Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited
Partnership Units from a single institutional investor. AMB
Property II, L.P. redeemed the units for an aggregate cost of
$7.1 million, including accrued and unpaid dividends and a
redemption discount of $0.4 million.

On April 17, 2002, the Operating Partnership
issued and sold 800,000 7.95% Series K Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units at a price of
$50.00 per unit in a private placement. Distributions are
cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly in
arrears. The Series K preferred units are redeemable by the
Operating Partnership on or after April 17, 2007, subject
to certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to
$50.00 per unit, plus accumulated and unpaid distributions
thereon, if any, to the redemption date. The Series K
preferred units are exchangeable, at specified times and subject
to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis, for shares of the
Company’s Series K preferred stock. The Operating
Partnership used the net proceeds of $39.0 million for
general corporate purposes, which included the partial repayment
of indebtedness and the acquisition and development of
additional properties.

F-18

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table distinguishes the minority
interest liability as of December 31, 2002 and 2001
(dollars in thousands):

The following table distinguishes the minority
interests’ share of net income for the years ended
December 31, (dollars in thousands):

11.     Investments
in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

The Company has a 56.1% interest in a joint
venture, which owns an aggregate of 36 industrial buildings
totaling approximately 4.0 million square feet. The Company
has a 50% interest in two other operating joint ventures, which
own an aggregate of 7 industrial buildings totaling
approximately 1.4 million square feet. The Company also has
a 50% interest in a development alliance joint venture. The
Company’s net equity investment in these joint ventures is
shown as investments in unconsolidated joint ventures on the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

F-19

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Under the agreements governing the joint
ventures, the Company and the other parties to the joint venture
may be required to make additional capital contributions and,
subject to certain limitations, the joint ventures may incur
additional debt. As of December 31, 2002, the
Company’s share of unconsolidated joint venture debt was
$39.3 million.

The Company also has a 0.1% unconsolidated equity
interest (with an approximate 33% economic interest) in AMB Pier
One, LLC, a joint venture to redevelop the Company’s office
space in San Francisco. The investment is not consolidated
because the Company does not own a majority interest and does
not exercise significant control over major operating decisions
such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers,
investment activity and changes in financing. The Company has an
option to purchase the remaining equity interest beginning
January 1, 2007, and expiring December 31, 2009, based
on the fair market value as stipulated in the operating
agreement.

12.     Stockholders’
Equity

During 2002, the Company redeemed 122,640 common
limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership for
shares of its common stock. Holders of common limited
partnership units of the Operating Partnership have the right,
commencing generally on or after the first anniversary of the
holder becoming a limited partner of the Operating Partnership
(or such other date agreed to by the Operating Partnership and
the applicable unit holders), to require the Operating
Partnership to redeem part or all of their common units for cash
(based upon the fair market value of an equivalent number of
shares of common stock at the time of redemption) or the
Operating Partnership may, in its sole and absolute discretion
(subject to the limits on ownership and transfer of common stock
set forth in the Company’s charter), elect to have the
Company exchange those common units for shares of the
Company’s common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to
adjustment in the event of stock splits, stock dividends,
issuance of certain rights, certain extraordinary distributions
and similar events. The Company presently anticipates that the
Operating Partnership will generally elect to have it issue
shares of its common stock in exchange for common units in
connection with a redemption request; however, the Operating
Partnership has paid cash, and may in the future pay cash, for a
redemption of common units. With each redemption or exchange,
the Company’s percentage ownership in the Operating
Partnership will increase. Common limited partners may exercise
this redemption right from time to time, in whole or in part,
subject to the limitations that limited partners may not
exercise this right if such exercise would result in any person
actually or constructively owning shares of common stock in
excess of the ownership limit or any other amount specified by
the board of directors, assuming common stock was issued in the
exchange.

In December 2001, the Company’s board of
directors approved a new stock repurchase program for the
repurchase of up to $100.0 million worth of common and
preferred stock. In December 2002, the Company’s board of
directors increased the repurchase program to
$200.0 million. The new stock repurchase program expires in
December 2003. During 2002, the Company repurchased 2,651,600
shares of its common stock for $69.4 million, including
commissions.

The Company has authorized 100,000,000 shares of
preferred stock for issuance, of which the following series were
designated as of December 31, 2002: 4,600,000 shares of
Series A preferred; 1,300,000 shares of Series B
preferred; 1,595,337 shares of Series D preferred; 220,440
shares of Series E preferred; 267,439 shares of
Series F preferred; 840,000 shares of Series H
preferred; 510,000 shares of Series I preferred; 800,000
shares of Series J preferred; and 800,000 shares of
Series K preferred.

In July 2002, the Company repurchased 4,200
shares of its Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate
cost of $0.1 million, including accrued and unpaid
dividends.

F-20

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table sets forth the dividends and
distributions paid or payable per share or unit for the years
ended December 31:

(1)

On July 31, 2002, AMB Property II, L.P., one
    of the Company’s subsidiaries, repurchased 130,000 of its
    7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited
    Partnership Units and all 20,000 of its outstanding 7.95%
    Series G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited
    Partnership Units from a single institutional investor. On July,
    31, 2002, AMB Property II, L.P. paid a distribution, which
    accrued during the period from July 15, 2002, to
    July 31, 2002, of $0.155 per unit on the 130,000
    Series F preferred units that were redeemed.

13.     Stock
Incentive Plan, 401(k) Plan and Deferred Compensation
Plan

Stock Incentive Plan.

The Company has Stock Option and
Incentive Plans (“Stock Incentive Plans”) for the
purpose of attracting and retaining eligible officers, directors
and employees. The Company has reserved for issuance 18,950,000
shares of common stock under its Stock Incentive Plans. As of
December 31, 2002, the Company had 8,764,912 non-qualified
options outstanding granted to certain directors, officers and
employees. Each option is exchangeable for one share of the
Company’s common stock. The options have a weighted average
exercise price of $23.16 and the exercise prices range from
$18.94 to $30.83. Each option’s exercise price is equal to
the Company’s market price on the date of grant. The
options had an original ten-year term and generally vest pro
rata in annual installments over a three- to five-year period
from the date of grant.

In 2002, the Company adopted the expense
recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation

. The Company values stock options
issued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and
recognizes this value as an expense over the period in which the
options vest. Under this standard, recognition of expense for
stock options is applied to all options granted after the
beginning of the year of adoption. Prior to 2002, the Company
followed the intrinsic method set forth in APB Opinion 25,

Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees

. In accordance
with SFAS No. 123, the Company will recognize the
associated expense over the three to five-year vesting periods.
Related stock-based compensation expense was $0.9 million
for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2002. The
expense is included in general and administrative expenses in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The
adoption of SFAS No. 123 is prospective and the 2002
expense relates only to stock options granted in 2002. Prior to
January 1,

F-21

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

2002, the Company applied APB Opinion
No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees” and related interpretations in accounting for
its Stock Incentive Plan. Opinion 25 measures compensation cost
using the intrinsic value based method of accounting. Under this
method, compensation cost is the excess, if any, of the quoted
market price of the stock at the date of grant over the amount
an employee must pay to acquire the stock. Accordingly, no
compensation cost had been recognized for the Company’s
Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2001.

As permitted by SFAS No. 148,

Accounting
for Stock-based Compensation — Transition and
Disclosure — an amendment of FASB Statement
No. 123

, the Company has changed its method of
accounting for stock options beginning January 1, 2002. The
Company has not retroactively changed its method of accounting
for stock options but has provided additional required
disclosures. Had compensation cost for the Company’s
stock-based compensation plans been determined based on the fair
value at the grant dates for awards prior to 2002 consistent
with the method of SFAS No. 123, the Company’s pro
forma net income available to common stockholders would have
been reduced by $2.4 million, $3.9 million and
$2.7 million and pro forma basic and diluted earnings per
share would have been reduced to $1.37 and $1.34; $1.44 and
$1.42; and $1.32 and $1.31, respectively, for the years ended
December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000.

The fair value of each option grant was estimated
at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model with the following assumptions used for grants in 2002,
2001 and 2000, respectively: dividend yields of 5.9%, 6.4% and
6.5%; expected volatility of 13.3%, 14.9% and 13.3%; risk-free
interest rates of 4.0%, 5.2% and 6.1%; and expected lives of
10 years for each year.

Following is a summary of the option activity for
the years ended December 31 (options in thousands):

In 2002, 2001 and 2000, the Company issued
204,072, 238,790 and 162,229 restricted shares, respectively, to
certain officers of the Company as part of the performance pay
program and in connection with employment with the Company. As
of December 31, 2002, 36,200 shares of restricted stock
have been

F-22

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

forfeited. The 717,611 outstanding restricted
shares are subject to repurchase rights, which generally lapse
over a period from three to five years.

401(k) Plan.

In
November 1997, the Company established a Section 401(k)
Savings/ Retirement Plan (“401(k) Plan”), which is a
continuation of the 401(k) Plan of the predecessor, to cover
eligible employees of the Company and any designated affiliates.
During 2002 and 2001, the 401(k) Plan permitted eligible
employees of the Company to defer up to 20% of their annual
compensation, subject to certain limitations imposed by the
Code. The employees’ elective deferrals are immediately
vested and non-forfeitable upon contribution to the 401(k) Plan.
During 2002 and 2001, the Company matched the employee
contributions to the 401(k) Plan in an amount equal to 50% of
the first 5.5% of annual compensation deferred by each employee.
The Company may also make discretionary contributions to the
401(k) Plan. In 2002 and 2001, the Company paid
$0.4 million and $0.3 million, respectively, for its
401(k) match.

Deferred Compensation Plan.

Effective September 1, 1999, the
Company established a non-qualified deferred compensation plan
for officers of the Company and certain of its affiliates. As of
January 1, 2002, the plan enables participants to defer
income up to 100% of annual base pay and up to 100% of annual
bonuses on a pre-tax basis. The Company may make discretionary
matching contributions to participant accounts at any time. The
Company made no such discretionary matching contributions in
2002, 2001 or 2000. The participant’s elective deferrals
and any matching contributions are immediately 100% vested. As
of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the total amount of
compensation deferred was $2.9 million and
$1.7 million, respectively.

14.     Income Per
Share

The Company’s only dilutive securities
outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000 were stock options and restricted stock granted under the
Stock Incentive Plans. The effect on income per share was to
increase weighted average shares outstanding. Such dilution was
computed using the treasury stock method.

15.     Commitments
and Contingencies

Commitments

Lease Commitments.

The Company has entered into operating
ground leases on certain land parcels, primarily on-tarmac
facilities, and office space with remaining lease terms from one
to 38 years. Future

F-23

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

minimum rental payments required under
non-cancelable operating leases in effect as of
December 31, 2002, were as follows (dollars in thousands):

These operating lease payments are being
amortized ratably over the terms of the related leases.

Contingencies

Litigation.

In the
normal course of business, from time to time, the Company may be
involved in legal actions relating to the ownership and
operations of its properties. Management does not expect that
the liabilities, if any, that may ultimately result from such
legal actions will have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows of the Company.

Environmental Matters.

The Company monitors its properties
for the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The Company
is not aware of any environmental liability with respect to the
properties that would have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s business, assets or results of operations.
However, there can be no assurance that such a material
environmental liability does not exist. The existence of any
such material environmental liability would have an adverse
effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flow.

General Uninsured Losses.

The Company carries property and
rental loss, liability, flood, environmental and terrorism
insurance. The Company believes that the policy terms and
conditions, limits and deductibles are adequate and appropriate
under the circumstances, given the relative risk of loss, the
cost of such coverage and industry practice. In addition,
certain of the Company’s properties are located in areas
that are subject to earthquake activity; therefore, the Company
has obtained limited earthquake insurance on those properties.
There are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such
as those due to acts of war that may be either uninsurable or
not economically insurable. Although we have obtained coverage
for certain acts of terrorism, with policy specifications and
insured limits that we believe are commercially reasonable, it
is not certain that we will be able to collect under such
policies. Should an uninsured loss occur, the Company could lose
its investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flows from,
a property.

Captive Insurance Company.

The Company has responded to recent
trends towards increasing costs and decreasing coverage
availability in the insurance markets by obtaining
higher-deductible property insurance from third party insurers
and by forming a wholly-owned captive insurance company, Arcata
National Insurance Ltd. (“Arcata”) in December 2001.
Arcata provides insurance coverage for all or a portion of
losses below the increased deductible under the third party
policies. The Company capitalized Arcata in accordance with
regulatory requirements. Arcata established annual premiums
based on projections derived from the past loss experience at
the Company’s properties. Annually, the Company engages an
independent third party to perform an actuarial estimate of
future projected claims and projected expenses necessary to fund
associated risk management programs. Premiums paid to Arcata may
be adjusted based on this estimate. Premiums paid to Arcata have
a retrospective component, so that if expenses, including
losses, are less than premiums collected, the excess will be
returned to the property owners (and, in turn, as appropriate,
to the customers) and conversely, subject to certain
limitations, if expenses, including losses, are greater than
premiums collected, an additional premium will be charged. As
with all recoverable expenses,

F-24

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

differences between estimated and actual
insurance premiums will be recognized in the subsequent year.
Through this structure, the Company believes that it will be
able to obtain insurance for its portfolio with more
comprehensive coverage at a projected overall lower cost than
would otherwise be available in the market.

16.     Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)

Selected quarterly financial results for 2002 and
2001 were as follows (dollars in thousands):

F-25

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(1)

Certain reclassifications have been made to the
    quarterly data to conform with the annual presentation with no
    net effect to net income or per share amounts.

(2)

The sum of quarterly financial data may vary from
    the annual data due to rounding.

17.     Segment
Information

The Company operates industrial and retail
properties in North America and France and manages its business
both by property type and by market. Industrial properties
represent more than 98% of the Company’s portfolio by
rentable square feet and consist primarily of warehouse
distribution facilities suitable for single or multiple
customers and are typically comprised of multiple buildings that
are leased to customers engaged in various types of businesses.
As of December 31, 2002, the Company operated industrial
properties in eight hub and gateway markets in addition to 20
other markets throughout North America and France. The
Company’s geographic markets for industrial properties are
managed separately because each market requires different
operating, pricing and leasing strategies. As of
December 31, 2002, the Company operated retail properties
in Southeast Florida, Atlanta, Chicago, the San Francisco Bay
Area, Boston and Baltimore. The Company does not separately
manage its retail operations by market. Retail properties are
generally leased to

F-26

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

one or more anchor customers, such as grocery and
drug stores and various retail businesses. The accounting
policies of the segments are the same as those described in the
summary of significant accounting policies. The Company
evaluates performance based upon property net operating income
of the combined properties in each segment.

Within the hub and gateway market categorization,
the Company operates in eight major U.S. markets. The other
industrial markets category captures all of the Company’s
other smaller markets. Summary information for the reportable
segments is as follows (dollars in thousands):

(1)

Property net operating income (NOI) is
    defined as rental revenue, including reimbursements, less
    property operating expenses, which excludes depreciation,
    amortization, general and administrative expenses and interest
    expense.

F-27

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(1)

Includes construction in progress of
    $132.5 million and $181.2 million as of
    December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

F-28

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders

of AMB Property Corporation:

Our audits of the consolidated financial
statements referred to in our report dated January 14,
2003, appearing on page F-1 in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K of AMB Property Corporation, also included an
audit of the financial statement schedules listed in
Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, these
financial statement schedules present fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERSLLP

San Francisco, California

January 14, 2003

F-29

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2002

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-30

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-31

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-32

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-33

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-34

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-35

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-36

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-37

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-38

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-39

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-40

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-41

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-42

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

F-43

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED
DEPRECIATION — (Continued)

(1)

Reconciliation of total cost to consolidated
    balance sheet caption as of December 31, 2002:

(2)

As of December 31, 2002, the aggregate cost
    for federal income tax purposes of investments in real estate
    was $4,449,171.

(3)

A summary of activity for real estate and
    accumulated depreciation for the year ended December 31,
    2002, is as follows:

(4)

Includes $92.8 million of fundings for
    development projects as of December 31, 2002.

F-44

EXHIBIT INDEX