10-K


f06482e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K

Commission File Number 001-13545

AMB Property Corporation

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Maryland

94-3281941

(State or Other Jurisdiction of

Incorporation or Organization)

(IRS Employer Identification No.)

Pier 1, Bay 1,

San Francisco, California

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)


(Zip Code)

(415) 394-9000

(Registrant’s Telephone Number, Including Area Code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
Act:

(Title of Each Class)

(Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered)

Common Stock, $.01 par value

New York Stock Exchange



/


%
    Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock



/


%
    Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed
by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter
period that the registrant was required to file such reports),
and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for
the past
90 days.     Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant’s
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.

o

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2).     Yes

þ

No

o

The
aggregate market value of common shares held by non-affiliates
of the registrant (based upon the closing sale price on the New
York Stock Exchange) on June 30, 2004 was $2,738,107,040.

As
of March 1, 2005, there were 83,926,571 shares of the
Registrant’s common stock outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Part III
incorporates by reference the registrant’s Proxy Statement
for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders which the registrant
anticipates will be filed no later than 120 days after the
end of its fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Some of the information included in this annual report on
Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, which are
made pursuant to the safe-harbor provisions of Section 21E
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and
uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause our
actual results to differ materially from those in the
forward-looking statements, and you should not rely on the
forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The
events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements
might not occur. You can identify forward-looking statements by
the use of forward-looking terminology such as
“believes,” “expects,” “may,”
“will,” “should,” “seeks,”
“approximately,” “intends,”
“plans,” “pro forma,” “estimates”
or “anticipates,” or the negative of these words and
phrases, or similar words or phrases. You can also identify
forward-looking statements by discussions of strategy, plans or
intentions. Forward-looking statements involve numerous risks
and uncertainties and you should not rely upon them as
predictions of future events. There is no assurance that the
events or circumstances reflected in forward-looking statements
will occur or be achieved. Forward-looking statements are
necessarily dependent on assumptions, data or methods that may
be incorrect or imprecise and we may not be able to realize
them.

The following factors, among others, could cause actual
results and future events to differ materially from those set
forth or contemplated in the forward-looking statements:

Our success also depends upon economic trends generally,
various market conditions and fluctuations and those other risk
factors discussed under the heading “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Business Risks” in this report. We
caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking
statements, which reflect our analysis only and speak as of the
date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the
statements. We assume no obligation to update or supplement
forward-looking statements.


PART I

Item 1.

Business

General

AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation, acquires,
develops and operates primarily industrial properties in key
distribution markets throughout North America, Europe and Asia.
We commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate
company effective with the completion of our initial public
offering on November 26, 1997. Our strategy focuses on
providing properties for customers who value the efficient
movement of goods in the world’s busiest distribution
markets: large, supply-constrained locations with close
proximity to airports, seaports and major freeway systems. As of
December 31, 2004, we owned or managed properties or had
renovation and development projects comprised of 1,108 buildings
in 38 markets within eight countries totaling 110.7 million
square feet (10.3 million square meters).

We operate our business through our subsidiary, AMB Property,
L.P., a Delaware limited partnership. We refer to AMB Property,
L.P. as the “operating partnership.” As of
December 31, 2004, we owned an approximate 94.6% general
partnership interest in the operating partnership, excluding
preferred units. As the sole general partner of the operating
partnership, we have the full, exclusive and complete
responsibility for and discretion in its day-to-day management
and control.

Our investment strategy generally targets customers whose
businesses are tied to global trade, which, according to the
World Trade Organization, has grown more than three times the
world gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate during the
last 20 years. To serve the facilities needs of these
customers, we seek to invest in major distribution markets,
transportation hubs and gateways, both domestically and
internationally. Our investment strategy seeks target markets
that are generally characterized by large population densities
and typically offer substantial consumer bases, proximity to
large clusters of distribution-facility users and significant
labor pools. When measured by annualized base rents, 94.2% of
our industrial properties are concentrated in our target U.S.,
on-tarmac and international markets. Of this 94.2%, 65.3% is
derived from eight U.S. hub and gateway distribution
markets: Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/ Fort Worth, Los Angeles,
Miami, Northern New Jersey/ New York City, the
San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle. Other U.S. target
markets account for 16.2% of our annualized base rents. Our
portfolio of properties located on-tarmac at airports and in
international target markets comprised 8.3% and 4.4% of our
consolidated annualized base rents, respectively. Much of our
portfolio is comprised of industrial buildings in in-fill
submarkets. In-fill locations are characterized by supply
constraints on the availability of land for competing projects
as well as physical, political or economic barriers to new
development.

We focus our investment strategy on High Throughput
Distribution

®

, or HTD

®

facilities, which
are buildings designed to facilitate rapid distribution of our
customers’ products rather than store them. Our investment
focus on HTD assets is based on what we believe to be a global
trend toward lower inventory levels and expedited supply chains.
HTD facilities generally have a variety of characteristics that
allow the rapid transport of goods from point-to-point. Examples
of these physical characteristics include numerous dock doors,
shallower building depths, fewer columns, large truck courts and
more space for trailer parking. We believe that these building
characteristics represent an important success factor for
time-sensitive customers such as air express, logistics and
freight forwarding companies and that these facilities function
best when located in convenient proximity to transportation
infrastructure such as major airports and seaports.

As of December 31, 2004, we owned and operated (exclusive
of properties that we managed for third parties) 984 industrial
buildings and four retail and other properties, totaling
approximately 90.8 million rentable square feet, located in
33 markets throughout the United States and in France, Germany,
Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands. As of December 31, 2004,
through our subsidiary, AMB Capital Partners, LLC, we also
managed, but did not have an ownership interest in, industrial
buildings, totaling approximately 0.4 million rentable
square feet. In addition, as of December 31, 2004, we had
investments in operating industrial buildings, totaling
approximately 10.3 million rentable square feet, through
investments in unconsolidated joint ventures. As of
December 31, 2004, we also had investments in industrial
development


projects, some of which are part of our development-for-sale
program, totaling approximately 9.2 million square feet.

During 2004, our property acquisitions totaled
$695.2 million, including expected capital expenditures,
and we increased our market presence primarily in targeted
metropolitan markets including Amsterdam, Chicago, Northern New
Jersey, Paris and Tokyo. As of December 31, 2004, we had 25
industrial buildings and one undeveloped land parcel held for
divestiture. Our dispositions during 2004 totaled
$200.3 million, including assets in markets that no longer
fit our investment strategy and properties at valuations that we
considered to be at premium levels. While we continue to sell
assets, we believe that we have substantially achieved our
near-term strategic disposition goals. Additionally, we
contributed $71.5 million of operating assets to a private
capital joint venture as part of our continuing strategy to
increase the proportion of our assets owned in co-investment
joint ventures.

We are self-administered and self-managed and expect that we
have qualified and will continue to qualify as a real estate
investment trust for federal income tax purposes beginning with
the year ended December 31, 1997. As a self-administered
and self-managed real estate investment trust, our own employees
perform our corporate administrative and management functions,
rather than relying on an outside manager for these services. We
manage our portfolio of properties in a flexible operating model
which includes both direct property management and our Strategic
Alliance Program

®

in which we have established
relationships with third-party real estate management firms,
brokers and developers that provide property-level
administrative and management services under our direction.

Our principal executive office is located at Pier 1,
Bay 1, San Francisco, California 94111; our telephone
number is (415) 394-9000. We also maintain regional offices
in Amsterdam, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Shanghai and Tokyo.
As of December 31, 2004, we employed 234 individuals, 148
at our San Francisco headquarters, 52 in our Boston office,
and the remainder in our other offices. Our website address is

www.amb.com

. Our annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website
free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Information
contained on our website is not and should not be deemed a part
of this annual report or any other report or filing filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,”
“us” and “our” refer to AMB Property
Corporation, AMB Property, L.P. and their other controlled
subsidiaries, and the references to AMB Property Corporation
include AMB Property, L.P. and their controlled subsidiaries. We
refer to AMB Property, L.P. as the “operating
partnership.” The following marks are our registered
trademarks: AMB

®

; Development Alliance
Partners

®

; HTD

®

; High Throughput
Distribution

®

; Management Alliance
Program

®

; Strategic Alliance Partners

®

;
Strategic Alliance Programs

®

; and UPREIT Alliance
Program

®

.

Operating Strategy

We base our operating strategy on a variety of operational and
service offerings, including in-house acquisitions, development,
redevelopment, asset management, leasing, finance, accounting
and market research. Our strategy is to leverage our expertise
across a large customer base and complement our internal
management resources with long-standing relationships with
entrepreneurial real estate management and development firms in
our target markets, which we refer to as our Strategic Alliance
Partners

®

.

We believe that real estate is fundamentally a local business
and best operated by local teams in each market comprised of AMB
employees, local alliance partners or both. We intend to
increase utilization of internal management resources in target
markets to achieve both operating efficiencies and to expose our
customers to the broadening array of AMB service offerings,
including access to multiple locations worldwide and
build-to-suit developments. We actively manage our portfolio,
whether directly or with an alliance partner, by establishing
leasing strategies, negotiating lease terms, pricing, and level
and timing of property improvements.


Growth Strategies

Growth Through Operations

We seek to generate long-term internal growth through rent
increases on existing space and renewals on rollover space by
working to maintain a high occupancy rate at our properties and
controlling expenses by capitalizing on the economies of scale
inherent in owning, operating and growing a large, global
portfolio. However, during 2004, our average industrial base
rental rates decreased by 13.2% from the rent in place at
expiration for that space on leases entered into or renewed
during the period. This amount excludes expense reimbursements,
rental abatements, percentage rents and straight-line rents.
Since 2001, as the industrial market weakened, we have focused
on maintaining occupancy levels. During 2004, cash-basis
same-store net operating income (rental revenues less property
operating expenses and real estate taxes for properties included
in the same-store pool, which is set annually and excludes
properties purchased or developments stabilized after
December 31, 2002) decreased by 0.9% on our industrial
properties. Since our initial public offering in November 1997,
we have experienced average annual increases in industrial base
rental rates of 6.9% and maintained an average quarter-end
occupancy of 94.9% in our industrial operating portfolio. While
we believe that it is important to view real estate as a
long-term investment, past results are not necessarily an
indication of future performance. See Part IV,
Item 15: Note 16 of the “Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements” for detailed segment information,
including revenue attributable to each segment, gross investment
in each segment and total assets.

Growth Through Acquisitions and Capital Redeployment

We believe that our significant acquisition experience and our
network of property management and acquisition resources will
continue to provide opportunities for external growth. We have
long-term relationships with third-party local property
management firms, which we believe will give us access to
additional acquisition opportunities, as such managers
frequently market properties on behalf of sellers. We believe
that our operating structure also enables us to acquire
properties through our UPREIT Alliance Program

®

in
exchange for limited partnership units in the operating
partnership or AMB Property II, L.P., thereby enhancing our
attractiveness to owners and developers seeking to transfer
properties on a tax-deferred basis. Going forward, we believe
that our newly-formed open-ended co-investment partnership, AMB
Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P., will serve as our
primary source of capital for acquisitions of operating
properties within the U.S. In addition, we seek to redeploy
capital from non-strategic assets into properties that better
fit our current investment focus.

We are generally engaged in various stages of negotiations for a
number of acquisitions and dispositions that may include
transactions involving individual properties, large
multi-property portfolios or other real estate companies. There
can be no assurance that we will consummate any of these
transactions. Such transactions, if we consummate them, may be
material individually or in the aggregate. Sources of capital
for acquisitions may include retained cash flow from operations,
borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, other forms of
secured or unsecured debt financing, issuances of debt or
preferred or common equity securities by us or the operating
partnership (including issuances of units in the operating
partnership or its subsidiaries), proceeds from divestitures of
properties, assumption of debt related to the acquired
properties and private capital from our co-investment partners.
See Part II, Item 7: “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Summary of Key Transactions in 2004.”

Growth Through Development

We believe that development, renovation and expansion of
well-located, high-quality industrial properties should continue
to provide us with attractive investment opportunities at a
higher rate of return than we may obtain from the purchase of
existing properties. We believe we have the in-house expertise
to create value both through new construction and acquisition,
conversion and management of value-added properties. Value-added
conversion is typically characterized as property with available
space or near-term leasing exposure, undeveloped land acquired
in connection with other property that provides an opportunity
for development or property that is well-located but requires
redevelopment or renovation. Both new development and value-


added conversions require significant management attention and
capital investment to maximize returns. Completed development
properties may be held in our portfolio, sold to third parties
or contributed to our co-investment joint ventures. We believe
our global market presence and expertise will enable us to
continue to generate and capitalize on a diverse range of
development opportunities.

We believe that the multidisciplinary backgrounds of our
employees should provide us with the skills and experience to
capitalize on strategic renovation, expansion and development
opportunities. Many of our officers have specific experience in
real estate development, both with us and with national
development firms, and over the past year, we have expanded our
development staff. We pursue development projects directly and
in joint ventures with our Development Alliance
Partners

®

, which provides us with the flexibility to
pursue development projects independently or in partnerships,
depending on market conditions, submarkets or building sites.

Growth Through Global Expansion

By 2007, we plan to have approximately 15% of our portfolio
(based on consolidated annualized base rent) invested in
international markets. As of December 31, 2004, our
international operating properties comprised 4.4% of our
consolidated annualized base rent. Our North American target
markets outside of the United States currently include
Guadalajara, Mexico City, Monterrey and Toronto. Our European
target markets currently include Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt,
London, Lyon, Madrid and Paris. Our Asian target markets
currently include Beijing, Nagoya, Osaka, the Pearl River Delta,
Shanghai, Singapore and Tokyo.

We believe that expansion into target international markets
represents a natural extension of our strategy to invest in
industrial markets with high population densities, close
proximity to large customer clusters and available labor pools,
and major distribution centers serving global trade. Our
international expansion strategy mirrors our domestic focus on
supply-constrained submarkets with political, economic or
physical constraints to new development. Our international
investments will extend our offering of High Throughput
Distribution

®

facilities for customers who value
speed-to-market over storage. Specifically, we are focused on
customers whose business is derived from global trade. In
addition, our investments target major consumer distribution
markets and customers. We believe that our established customer
relationships, our contacts in the air cargo and logistics
industries, our underwriting of markets and investments and our
Strategic Alliance Programs with knowledgeable developers and
managers will assist us in competing internationally.

There are many factors that could cause our entry into target
markets and future capital allocation to differ from our current
expectations, which are discussed in this report under the
heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Business Risks — Risks Associated with Our
International Business.” Further, it is possible that our
target markets will change over time to reflect experience,
market opportunities, customer needs and changes in global
distribution patterns. For a discussion of the amount of our
revenues attributable to the United States and international
markets, please see Part IV, Item 15: Note 16 of
the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”

Growth Through Co-Investments

We co-invest in properties with private-capital investors
through partnerships, limited liability companies or joint
ventures. Our co-investment joint ventures are managed by
AMB’s private capital group and typically operate under the
same investment strategy that we apply to our other operations.
Typically we will own a 20-50% interest in our co-investment
joint ventures. In general, we control all significant operating
and investment decisions of our co-investment entities. We
believe that our co-investment program will continue to serve as
a source of capital for acquisitions and developments; however,
there can be no assurance that it will continue to do so. In
addition, our co-investment joint ventures typically allow us to
earn acquisition and development fees, asset management fees and
priority distributions as well as promoted interests and
incentive fees based on the performance of the co-investment
joint ventures. As of December 31, 2004, we owned
approximately 40.8 million square feet of our properties
(36.8% of the total operating and development portfolio) through
our co-investment joint ventures.


BUSINESS RISKS

See Part II, Item 7: “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations — Business Risks” for a complete
discussion of the various risks that could adversely affect us,
including risks related to our international operations.

Item 2.

Properties

INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES

As of December 31, 2004, we owned 984 industrial buildings
aggregating approximately 90.3 million rentable square
feet, located in 33 markets throughout the United States and in
France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands. Our
industrial properties accounted for $552.2 million or 99.3%
of our total annualized base rent as of December 31, 2004.
Our industrial properties were 94.8% leased to 2,784 customers,
the largest of which accounted for no more than 3.4% of our
annualized base rent from our industrial properties. See
Part IV, Item 15: Note 16 of “Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements” for segment information
related to our operations.

Property Characteristics.

Our industrial properties,
which consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities
suitable for single or multiple customers, are typically
comprised of multiple buildings.

The following table identifies type and characteristics of our
industrial buildings and each type’s percentage of our
total portfolio based on square footage at December 31:

Building Type

Description



Warehouse

Customers typically 15,000-75,000 square feet, single or
    multi-tenant

41.4

%

40.7

%

Bulk Warehouse

Customers typically over 75,000 square feet, single or
    multi-tenant

38.9

%

39.3

%

Flex Industrial

Includes assembly or research & development, single or
    multi-customer

7.1

%

7.3

%

Light Industrial

Smaller customers, 15,000 square feet or less, higher
    office finish

5.9

%

6.1

%

Trans-Shipment

Unique configurations for truck terminals and cross-docking

2.3

%

2.2

%

Air Cargo

On-tarmac or airport land for transfer of air cargo goods

3.2

%

3.1

%

Office

Single or multi-customer, used strictly for office

1.2

%

1.3

%

Lease Terms.

Our industrial properties are typically
subject to lease on a “triple net basis,” in which
customers pay their proportionate share of real estate taxes,
insurance and operating costs, or are subject to leases on a
“modified gross basis,” in which customers pay
expenses over certain threshold levels. In addition, most of our
leases include fixed rental increases or Consumer Price Index
rental increases. Lease terms typically range from three to ten
years, with an average of six years, excluding renewal options.
However, the majority of our industrial leases do not include
renewal options.

Overview of Major Target Markets.

Our industrial
properties are typically located near major airports, key
interstate highways, and seaports in major domestic metropolitan
areas, such as Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/ Fort Worth, Los
Angeles, Miami, Northern New Jersey/ New York City, the
San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle. Our international
industrial facilities are located in major distribution markets,
including Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Guadalajara, Mexico City, Paris,
Singapore and Tokyo.

Within these metropolitan areas, our industrial properties are
generally concentrated in locations with limited new
construction opportunities within established, relatively large
submarkets, which we believe should provide a higher rate of
occupancy and rent growth than properties located elsewhere.
These in-fill locations are typically near major airports,
seaports or convenient to major highways and rail lines, and are


proximate to large and diverse labor pools. There is typically
broad demand for industrial space in these centrally located
submarkets due to a diverse mix of industries and types of
industrial uses, including warehouse distribution, light
assembly and manufacturing. We generally avoid locations at the
periphery of metropolitan areas where there are fewer
constraints to the supply of additional industrial properties.

Industrial Market Operating Statistics(1)

As of December 31, 2004, we held investments in operating
properties in 33 markets in our consolidated portfolio and an
additional two markets in our unconsolidated portfolio
throughout the United States and in France, Germany, Japan,
Mexico and the Netherlands. The following table represents
properties in which we own a 100% interest or a controlling
interest (consolidated), and excludes properties in which we
only own a non-controlling interest (unconsolidated) and
properties under development:

(1)

Includes all industrial consolidated operating properties and
    excludes industrial developments and renovation projects.

(2)

We also own a 19.9 acre parking lot with 2,720 parking
    spaces and 12 billboard signs in the Los Angeles market
    immediately adjacent to the Los Angeles International Airport.

(3)

Includes on-tarmac air cargo facilities at 14 airports.


(4)

Annualized base rent is calculated as monthly base rent (cash
    basis) per the terms of the lease, as of December 31, 2004,
    multiplied by 12.

(5)

Same store pool excludes properties purchased or developments
    stabilized after December 31, 2002. Stabilized properties
    are generally defined as properties that are 90% leased or
    properties for which we have held a certificate of occupancy or
    where building has been substantially complete for at least
    12 months.

(6)

Total market square footage includes industrial and retail
    operating properties, development properties, unconsolidated
    properties (100% of the square footage), properties managed for
    third parties and reallocation of on-tarmac properties into
    metro markets.


Industrial Operating Portfolio Overview

As of December 31, 2004, our 984 industrial buildings were
diversified across 33 markets throughout the United States and
in France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands. The
average age of our industrial properties is approximately
20 years (since the property was built or substantially
renovated). The following table represents properties in which
we own a fee simple or leasehold interest or a controlling
interest (consolidated), and excludes properties in which we
only own a non-controlling interest (unconsolidated):

(1)

Annualized base rent for leases denominated in international
    currencies is translated using the currency exchange rate at
    December 31, 2004.


Industrial Lease Expirations

The following table summarizes the lease expirations for our
industrial properties for leases in place as of
December 31, 2004, without giving effect to the exercise of
renewal options or termination rights, if any, at or prior to
the scheduled expirations:

(1)

Schedule includes in-place leases and leases with future
    commencement dates.

(2)

The schedule also includes leases in month-to-month and
    hold-over status totaling 2.7 million square feet.

(3)

Calculated as monthly base rent at expiration multiplied by 12.
    Non-U.S. dollar projects are converted to U.S. dollars
    based on the Bloomberg (Screen FRD) forward exchange rate at
    expiration.


Customer Information

Largest Property Customers.

As of December 31, 2004,
our 25 largest industrial property customers by annualized base
rent are set forth in the table below:


OPERATING AND LEASING STATISTICS

Industrial Operating and Leasing Statistics

The following table summarizes key operating and leasing
statistics for all of our industrial properties as of and for
the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:


Industrial Same Store Operating Statistics

The following table summarizes key operating and leasing
statistics for our same store properties as of and for the years
ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:

(1)

Same store properties are those properties that we owned during
    both the current and prior year reporting periods, excluding
    development properties prior to being stabilized (generally
    defined as properties that are 90% leased or properties for
    which we have held a certificate of occupancy or building has
    been substantially complete for at least 12 months).

Retail and Other Property Summary

Our remaining retail and other properties, aggregating
approximately 0.5 million square feet, were 71.4% leased
and had an annualized base rent of $3.8 million at
December 31, 2004.


DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES

Development Pipeline

The following table sets forth the properties owned by us as of
December 31, 2004 which were undergoing renovation,
expansion or development. No assurance can be given that any of
these projects will be completed on schedule or within budgeted
amounts.

Industrial Development and Renovation Deliveries


(1)

Represents total estimated cost of renovation, expansion or
    development, including initial acquisition costs, third-party
    developer earnouts and associated carry costs. The estimates are
    based on our current estimates and forecasts and are subject to
    change. Excludes 1,263 acres of land held for future
    development representing a potential 22.2 million square
    feet and other acquisition-related costs totaling
    $224.8 million. Non-U.S. dollar investments are
    translated to U.S. dollars using the exchange rate at
    December 31, 2004.


The following table sets forth completed development projects
that we intend to either sell or contribute to co-investment
funds as of December 31, 2004:

Completed Development Projects Available for Sale or
Contribution(2)

Estimated

Estimated

Total

Our

Square Feet at

Investment

Ownership

Projects(1)

Market

Developer

Completion

(000’s)(3)

Percentage

1. Wilsonville Phase II

Watsonville, OR

Trammell Crow Company

249,625

$

11,000

100%

2. O’Hare Industrial — 701 Hilltop Drive

Itasca, IL

Hamilton Partners

60,810

2,900

100%

3. Central Business Park Bldgs A,C,D

SF Bay Area

Harvest Properties

55,123

5,300

100%

4. Singapore Airport Logistics Center Bldg 1

Changi Airport, Singapore

Boustead Projects PTE

230,432

10,000

50%

Total Available for Sale or Contribution

595,990

$

29,200

Funded-to-date

$

25,400

(4)

Properties held through Joint Ventures, Limited Liability
Companies and Partnerships

Consolidated:

As of December 31, 2004, we held interests in joint
ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with
institutional investors and other third parties, which we
consolidate in our financial statements. Such investments are
consolidated because we own a majority interest or, as general
partner, exercise significant control over major operating
decisions such as acquisition or disposition decisions, approval
of budgets, selection of property managers and changes in
financing. Under the agreements governing the joint ventures, we
and the other party to the joint venture may be required to make
additional capital contributions and, subject to certain
limitations, the joint ventures may incur additional debt. Such
agreements also impose certain restrictions on the transfer of
joint venture interests by us or the other party to the joint
venture and typically provide certain rights to us or the other
party to the joint venture to sell our or their interest in the
joint venture to the joint venture or to the other joint-venture
partner on terms specified in the agreement. In addition, under
certain circumstances, many of the joint ventures include
buy/sell provisions. See Part IV, Item 15: Note 9
of the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements”
for additional details.


The tables that follow summarize our consolidated joint ventures
as of December 31, 2004:

Co-investment Consolidated Joint Ventures


(6)

AMB-SGP, L.P. is a co-investment partnership formed in 2001 with
    Industrial JV Pte Ltd, a subsidiary of GIC Real Estate Pte Ltd,
    a real estate investment subsidiary of the government of
    Singapore Investment Corporation.

(7)

AMB-AMS, L.P. is a co-investment partnership with three Dutch
    pension funds advised by Mn Services NV.

(8)

AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P. is an open-ended
    co-investment partnership formed in 2004 with institutional
    investors, which invest through a private real estate investment
    trust.

Other Consolidated Joint Ventures

Our

Gross

JV Partners’

Ownership

Square

Book

Property

Share of

Properties

Market

Percentage

Feet

Value(1)

Debt

Debt

Other Industrial Operating Joint Ventures

Various


%

2,403,711

$

218,821

$

49,869

$

2,493

Other Industrial Development Joint Ventures

Various


%

2,026,726

122,170

21,104

9,149

Total Other Industrial Consolidated Joint Ventures


%

4,430,437

$

340,991

$

70,973

$

11,642

Retail Joint Ventures:

1. Around Lenox

Atlanta


%

125,222

$

22,273

$

8,933

$


2. Springs Gate Land

Miami


%

—

6,767

—

—

Total Retail Consolidated Joint Ventures


%

125,222

$

29,040

$

8,933

$


(1)

Represents the book value of the property (before accumulated
    depreciation) owned by the joint venture entity and excludes net
    other assets as of December 31, 2004. Development book
    values include uncommitted land.

Unconsolidated Joint Ventures, Mortgage Investments and Other
    Investment:

As of December 31, 2004, we held interests in 11 equity
investment joint ventures that are not consolidated in our
financial statements. The management and control over
significant aspects of these investments are held by the
third-party joint-venture partners and the investments do not
meet the variable-interest entity consolidation criteria under
FASB Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities

. In addition, as of December 31,
2004, we held mortgage investments, from which we receive
interest income.


Unconsolidated Joint Ventures,

Mortgage Investments and Other Investment

Our

Mortgage

Ownership

Mortgage Investments

Market

Maturity

Receivable

Rate

Percentage(3)

1. Pier 1(4)

SF Bay Area

May 2026

$

12,938

13.0

%


%

2. Platinum Distribution Center

No. New Jersey

November 2006


12.0

%


%

$

13,738


Our

Gross

Ownership

Other Investment

Market

Property Type

Investment

Percentage

1. Park One

Los Angeles

Parking Lot

$

75,497


%

Secured Debt

As of December 31, 2004, we had $1.9 billion of
secured indebtedness, net of unamortized premiums, secured by
deeds of trust or mortgages. As of December 31, 2004, the
total gross consolidated investment value of those properties
secured by debt was $3.3 billion. Of the $1.9 billion
of secured indebtedness, $1.4 billion was joint venture
debt secured by properties with a gross investment value of
$2.4 billion. For additional details, see Part II,
Item 7: “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations —
Liquidity and Capital Resources” and Part IV,
Item 15: Note 6 of “Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements” included in this report. We believe
that as of December 31, 2004, the fair value of the
properties securing the respective obligations in each case
exceeded the principal amount of the outstanding obligations.

Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

As of December 31, 2004, there were no pending legal
proceedings to which we were a party or of which any of our
properties was the subject, the adverse determination of which
we anticipate would have a material adverse effect upon our
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.


PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related
    Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities

Our common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on
November  21, 1997 under the symbol “AMB.”
As of March 1, 2005, there were approximately
475 holders of record of our common stock (excluding shares
held through The Depository Trust Company, as nominee). Set
forth below are the high and low sales prices per share of our
common stock, as reported on the NYSE composite tape, and the
distribution per share paid or payable by us during the period
from January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2004:

The payment of dividends and other distributions by us is at the
discretion of our board of directors and depends on numerous
factors, including our cash flow, financial condition and
capital requirements, REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code and other factors.


Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

SELECTED COMPANY FINANCIAL AND OTHER DATA(1)

The following table sets forth selected consolidated historical
financial and other data for AMB Property Corporation on a
historical basis as of and for the years ended December 31:







(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

Balance Sheet Data

Investments in real estate at cost

$

6,526,144

$

5,491,707

$

4,922,782

$

4,527,511

$

4,026,597

Total assets

6,386,943

5,409,559

4,983,629

4,763,614

4,433,207

Total consolidated debt

3,257,191

2,574,257

2,235,361

2,143,714

1,843,857

Our share of total debt(3)

2,395,046

1,954,314

1,691,737

1,655,386

1,681,161

Stockholders’ equity

1,671,140

1,657,137

1,579,265

1,747,389

1,767,930

(1)

Certain items in the consolidated financial statements for prior
    periods have been reclassified to conform with current
    classifications with no effect on net income or
    stockholders’ equity.

(2)

Basic and diluted net income per weighted average share equals
    the net income available to common stockholders divided by
    82,133,627 and 85,368,626 shares, respectively, for 2004;
    81,096,062 and 82,852,528 shares, respectively, for 2003;
    83,310,885 and 84,795,987 shares, respectively, for 2002;
    84,174,644 and 85,214,066 shares, respectively, for 2001;
    83,697,170 and 84,155,306 shares, respectively, for 2000.

(3)

Our share of total debt is the pro rata portion of the total
    debt based on our percentage of equity interest in each of the
    consolidated ventures holding the debt. We believe that our
    share of total debt is a meaningful supplemental measure, which
    enables both management and investors to analyze our leverage
    and to compare our leverage to that of other companies. In
    addition, it allows for a more meaningful comparison of our debt
    to that of other companies that do not consolidate their joint
    ventures. Our share of total debt is not intended to reflect our
    actual liability should there be a default under any or all of
    such loans or a liquidation of the joint ventures. For a
    reconciliation of our share of total debt to total consolidated
    debt, a GAAP financial measure, please see the table of debt
    maturities and capitalization in Part II, Item 7:
    “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
    Resources — Capital Resources.”


Item 7.

Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

GENERAL

You should read the following discussion and analysis of our
consolidated financial condition and results of operations in
conjunction with the notes to consolidated financial
statements.

We commenced operations as a fully integrated real estate
company effective with the completion of our initial public
offering on November 26, 1997, and elected to be taxed as a
real estate investment trust under Sections 856 through 860
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 with our initial tax return
for the year ended December 31, 1997. AMB Property
Corporation and AMB Property, L.P. were formed shortly before
the consummation of our initial public offering.

Management’s Overview

We generate revenue and earnings primarily from rent received
from customers under long-term (generally three to ten years)
operating leases at our properties, including reimbursements
from customers for certain operating costs, and from partnership
distributions and fees from our private capital business. We
also derive earnings from the strategic disposition of assets
and from the disposition of projects under our
development-for-sale or contribution program. Our long-term
growth is dependent on our ability to maintain and increase
occupancy rates or increase rental rates at our properties and
our ability to continue to acquire and develop new properties.

National industrial markets improved significantly during 2004
when compared with market conditions in 2003. The positive trend
in demand began in the second quarter of 2004 and reversed 14
prior quarters of negatively trending, or rising, space
availability. We believe the protracted period of rising
availability created a difficult leasing environment; however
investor demand for industrial property (as evidenced by our
observation of strong national sales volumes and declining
acquisition capitalization rates) has remained consistently
strong. We believe we capitalized on the demand for acquisition
property by accelerating the repositioning of our portfolio
through the disposition of non-core properties. We plan to
continue selling selected assets on an opportunistic basis but
believe we have substantially achieved our repositioning goals.
Property dispositions result in reinvestment capacity and
trigger gain/loss recognition, but also create near-term
earnings dilution if the capital cannot be redeployed
effectively. We experienced such near-term dilution in 2004.
However, we believe that the repositioning of our portfolio will
benefit our stockholders in the long-term. The table below
summarizes our leasing activity for 2004 and 2003:


(1)

Our U.S. hub and gateway markets include on-tarmac and
    Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas/ Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Northern
    New Jersey/ New York City, the San Francisco Bay Area,
    Miami and Seattle.

(2)

Our total other markets include other domestic target markets,
    other non-target markets, international target markets and
    retail.

We observed two positive trends nationally for industrial real
estate during the year ended December 31, 2004, supported
by data provided by Torto Wheaton Research. First, national
industrial space availability declined 70 basis points
during the year from 11.6% to 10.9%. This decrease in national
industrial space availability occurred in the last three
quarters of 2004, reversing the trend of the prior 14 quarters
in which national industrial space availability increased on
average 36 basis points per quarter. Second, national
absorption of industrial space, defined as the net change in
occupied stock as measured by square feet of completions less
the change in available square feet, totaled approximately
175 million square feet in the year ended December 31,
2004, substantially exceeding the 20 million square feet of
space absorbed in 2003 and well above the ten-year historical
average of 132 million square feet of space absorbed
annually.

In this improved environment, our industrial portfolio’s
occupancy levels increased to 94.8% at December 31, 2004
from 93.1% at December 31, 2003, which we believe reflects
higher levels of demand for industrial space generally and in
our portfolio specifically. During the year ended
December 31, 2004, our lease expirations totaled
approximately 21.4 million square feet while commencements
of new or renewed leases totaled approximately 24.3 million
square feet, resulting in an increase in our occupancy level of
approximately 170 basis points.

Rents on industrial renewals and rollovers in our portfolio
decreased 13.2% during the year ended December 31, 2004 as
leases were entered into or renewed at rates consistent with
what we believe to be current market levels. We believe this
decline in rents on lease renewals and rollovers reflects trends
in national industrial space availability. We believe that
relatively high levels of national industrial space availability
have caused market rents for industrial properties to decline
between 10% and 20% from their peak levels in 2001 based on our
research data; 47% of the space that rolled over in our
portfolio in 2004 had commenced between 1999 and 2001. Rental
rates in our portfolio declined at successively lower rates in
each of the four quarters during 2004, which we believe
indicates a stabilization of market rental rate levels. While
the level of rental rate reduction varied by market, we achieved
occupancy levels in our portfolio 570 basis points in
excess of the national industrial market, as determined by Torto
Wheaton Research, by pricing lease renewals and new leases with
sensitivity to local market conditions. During periods of
decreasing or stabilizing rental rates, we strove to sign leases
with shorter terms to prevent locking in lower rent levels for
long periods and to be prepared to sign new, longer-term leases
during periods of growing rental rates. When we sign leases of
shorter duration, we attempt to limit overall leasing costs and
capital expenditures by offering different grades of tenant
improvement packages, appropriate to the lease term.

We believe that development, renovation and expansion of
well-located, high-quality industrial properties should
generally continue to provide us with attractive investment
opportunities at a higher rate of return than we may obtain from
the purchase of existing properties. We believe that our
development opportunities in Mexico and Japan are attractive
given the current lack of supply of modern distribution
facilities in the major metropolitan markets of these countries.
Globally, we have increased our development pipeline from a low
of $107.0 million at the end of 2002 to approximately
$828.7 million at December 31, 2004. In addition to
our committed development pipeline, we hold a total of
1,263 acres for future development or sale, of which
1,015 acres, 199 acres, 39 acres and ten acres in
North America, Mexico, Asia and Europe, respectively, could
support an aggregate of approximately 22.2 million square
feet of additional development.

Going forward, we believe that our co-investment program with
private-capital investors will continue to serve as a
significant source of revenues and capital for acquisitions and
developments. Through these co-investment joint ventures, we
typically earn acquisition and development fees, asset
management fees and priority distributions, as well as promoted
interests and incentive distributions based on the performance
of the co-investment joint ventures; however, there can be no
assurance that we will continue to do so. Through contribution
of development properties to our co-investment joint ventures,
we expect to recognize value


creation from our development pipeline. As of December 31,
2004, we owned approximately 40.8 million square feet of
our properties (36.8% of the total operating and development
portfolio) through our co-investment joint ventures. We may make
additional investments through these joint ventures or new joint
ventures in the future and presently plan to do so.

By 2007, we plan to have approximately 15% of our portfolio
(based on consolidated annualized base rent) invested in
international markets. Our North American target markets outside
of the United States currently include Guadalajara, Mexico City,
Monterrey and Toronto. Our European target markets currently
include Amsterdam, Brussels, Frankfurt, London, Lyon, Madrid and
Paris. Our Asian target markets currently include Beijing,
Nagoya, Osaka, the Pearl River Delta, Shanghai, Singapore and
Tokyo. It is possible that our target markets will change over
time to reflect experience, market opportunities, customer needs
and changes in global distribution patterns. As of
December 31, 2004, our international operating properties
comprised 4.4% of our consolidated annualized base rent.

To maintain our qualification as a real estate investment trust,
we must pay dividends to our stockholders aggregating annually
at least 90% of our taxable income. As a result, we cannot rely
on retained earnings to fund our on-going operations to the same
extent that other corporations that are not real estate
investment trusts can. We must continue to raise capital in both
the debt and equity markets to fund our working capital needs,
acquisitions and developments. See “Liquidity and Capital
Resources” for a complete discussion of the sources of our
capital.

Summary of Key Transactions in 2004

During the year ended December 31, 2004, we completed the
following capital deployment transactions:

See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 3 and 4 of the
“Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a
more detailed discussion of our acquisition, development and
disposition activity.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, we completed the
following capital markets and other financing transactions:

•

Obtained long-term secured debt financings for our co-investment
    joint ventures totaling $243.5 million at an average rate
    of 5.0%;

•

Obtained $129.2 million of debt (using exchange rates in
    effect at applicable quarter end dates) with a weighted average
    interest rate of 4.5% for international acquisitions, net of the
    financing for the AMB Ohta Distribution Center development;

•

Completed the early renewal of the operating partnership’s
    senior unsecured revolving line of credit in the amount of
    $500.0 million. The three-year credit facility includes a
    multi-currency component under which up to $250.0 million
    can be drawn in Yen, Euros or British Pounds Sterling;


See Part IV, Item 15: Notes 6, 9 and 11 of the
“Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a
more detailed discussion of our capital markets transactions.

Critical Accounting Policies

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements,
which have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the
U.S. (“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial
statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and
contingencies as of the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
periods. We evaluate our assumptions and estimates on an
on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience
and on various other assumptions that we believe to be
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form
the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of
assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under
different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following
critical accounting policies affect our more significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
consolidated financial statements:

Investments in Real Estate.

Investments in real estate
are stated at cost unless circumstances indicate that cost
cannot be recovered, in which case the carrying value of the
property is reduced to estimated fair value. We also record at
acquisition an intangible asset or liability for the value
attributable to above or below-market leases, in-place leases
and lease origination costs for all acquisitions. Carrying
values for financial reporting purposes are reviewed for
impairment on a property-by-property basis whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a
property may not be recoverable. Impairment is recognized when
estimated expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without
interest charges) are less than the carrying amount of the
property. The estimation of expected future net cash flows is
inherently uncertain and relies on assumptions regarding current
and future market conditions and the availability of capital.
Examples of certain situations that could affect future cash
flows of a property may include, but are not limited to:
significant decreases in occupancy; unforeseen bankruptcy, lease
termination and move-out of a major customer; or a significant
decrease in annual base rents of that property. If impairment
analysis assumptions change, then an adjustment to the carrying
amount of our long-lived assets could occur in the future period
in which the assumptions change. To the extent that a property
is impaired, the excess of the carrying amount of the property
over its estimated fair value is charged to earnings.


Revenue Recognition.

We record rental revenue from
operating leases on a straight-line basis over the term of the
leases and maintain an allowance for estimated losses that may
result from the inability of our customers to make required
payments. If customers fail to make contractual lease payments
that are greater than our allowance for doubtful accounts,
security deposits and letters of credit, then we may have to
recognize additional doubtful account charges in future periods.
We monitor the liquidity and creditworthiness of our customers
on an on-going basis by reviewing their financial condition
periodically as appropriate. Each period we review our
outstanding accounts receivable, including straight-line rents,
for doubtful accounts and provide allowances as needed. We also
record lease termination fees when a customer has executed a
definitive termination agreement with us and the payment of the
termination fee is not subject to any conditions that must be
met or waived before the fee is due to us. If a customer remains
in the leased space following the execution of a definitive
termination agreement, the applicable termination fees are
deferred and recognized over the term of such customer’s
occupancy.

Property Dispositions.

We report real estate dispositions
in three separate categories on our consolidated statements of
operations. First, when we divest a portion of our interests in
real estate entities or properties, gains from the sale
represent the interests acquired by third-party investors for
cash. Second, we dispose of value-added conversion projects and
build-to-suit and speculative development projects for which we
have not generated material operating income prior to sale. The
gain or loss recognized from the disposition of these projects
is reported net of estimated taxes, when applicable. Lastly,
beginning in 2002, SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,

required us to
separately report as discontinued operations the historical
operating results attributable to operating properties sold and
the applicable gain or loss on the disposition of the
properties. The consolidated statements of operations for prior
periods are also adjusted to conform with this classification.
There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated
financial position, net income or cash flows. In all cases,
gains and losses are recognized using the full accrual method of
accounting. Gains relating to transactions which do not meet the
requirements of the full accrual method of accounting are
deferred and recognized when the full accrual method of
accounting criteria are met.

Joint Ventures.

We hold interests in both consolidated
and unconsolidated joint ventures. Our joint venture investments
do not meet the variable interest entity criteria under FASB
Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of Variable
Interest Entities.

Therefore, we determine consolidation
based on standards set forth in EITF 96-16,

Investor’s
Accounting for an Investee When the Investor Has a Majority of
the Voting Interest but the Minority Shareholder or Shareholders
Have Certain Approval or Veto Rights,

and Statement of
Position 78-9,

Accounting for Investments in Real Estate
Ventures.

Based on the guidance set forth in these
pronouncements, we consolidate certain joint venture investments
because we exercise significant control over major operating
decisions, such as approval of budgets, selection of property
managers, asset management, investment activity and changes in
financing. For joint ventures where we do not exercise
significant control over major operating and management
decisions, but where we exercise significant influence, we use
the equity method of accounting and do not consolidate the joint
venture for financial reporting purposes.

Real Estate Investment Trust.

As a real estate investment
trust, we generally will not be subject to corporate level
federal income taxes in the U.S. if we meet minimum
distribution, income, asset and shareholder tests. However, some
of our subsidiaries may be subject to federal and state taxes.
In addition, foreign entities may also be subject to the taxes
of the host country. An income tax allocation is required to be
estimated on our taxable income arising from our taxable REIT
subsidiaries and international entities. A deferred tax
component could arise based upon the differences in GAAP versus
tax income for items such as depreciation and gain recognition.
However, we believe deferred tax is an immaterial component of
our consolidated balance sheet.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The analysis below includes changes attributable to same store
growth, acquisitions, development activity and divestitures.
Same store properties are those that we owned during both the
current and prior year reporting periods, excluding development
properties prior to being stabilized subsequent to
December 31, 2002


(generally defined as properties that are 90% leased or
properties for which we have held a certificate of occupancy or
where building has been substantially complete for at least
12 months).

As of December 31, 2004, same store industrial properties
consisted of properties aggregating approximately
74.5 million square feet. The properties acquired during
2004 consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately
7.6 million square feet. The properties acquired during
2003 consisted of 82 buildings, aggregating approximately
6.5 million square feet. During 2004, property divestitures
and contributions consisted of 29 industrial buildings, two
retail centers and one office, aggregating approximately
4.4 million square feet. In 2003, property divestitures
consisted of 48 industrial buildings and two retail centers,
aggregating approximately 5.3 million square feet. Our
future financial condition and results of operations, including
rental revenues, may be impacted by the acquisition of
additional properties and dispositions. Our future revenues and
expenses may vary materially from historical results.

For the Years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 (dollars
in millions)

The decrease in U.S. industrial same store rental revenues
was primarily driven by decreased rental rates in various
markets. Across the portfolio, these and other factors accounted
for approximately $6.9 million of the change from the prior
year. This decrease was partially offset by a decrease in
allowances for doubtful accounts of approximately
$3.3 million. Industrial same store occupancy was 95.3% at
December 31, 2004 and 93.0% at December 31, 2003. For
the year ended December 31, 2004, rents in the same store
portfolio decreased 14.7% on industrial renewals and rollovers
(cash basis) on 16.2 million square feet leased due to
decreases in market rates. The properties acquired during 2003
consisted of 82 buildings, aggregating approximately
6.5 million square feet. The properties acquired during
2004 consisted of 64 buildings, aggregating approximately
7.6 million square feet. Other industrial revenues include
rental revenues from divested properties that have been
contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly
are not classified as discontinued operations in our
consolidated financial statements, and development projects that
have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of
the same store operating pool of properties. In 2003 and 2004,
we continued to acquire properties in France, Germany, Japan,
Mexico and the Netherlands, resulting in increased international
industrial revenues. The decrease in private capital income was
due to greater incentive fees earned in the prior year.


Same store properties’ operating expenses showed a decrease
of $0.3 million from the prior year due to decreased
non-reimbursable expenses. The 2003 acquisitions consisted of 82
buildings, aggregating approximately 6.5 million square
feet. The 2004 acquisitions consisted of 64 buildings,
aggregating approximately 7.6 million square feet. Other
industrial expenses include expenses from divested properties
that have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture,
and accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in
our consolidated financial statements, and development
properties that have reached certain levels of operation and are
not yet part of the same store operating pool of properties. In
2003 and 2004, we continued to acquire properties in France,
Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands, resulting in
increased international industrial property operating costs. The
increase in depreciation and amortization expense was due to the
increase in our net investment in real estate. The 2003
impairment loss was on investments in real estate and leasehold
interests. The increase in general and administrative expenses
was primarily due to increased stock-based compensation expense
of $2.3 million and additional staffing and expenses for
new initiatives, including our international and development
expansions. Fund costs represent general and administrative
costs paid to third parties associated with our co-investment
joint ventures. The increase in fund costs was due to additional
formation of co-investment joint ventures in 2004.

Other Income and (Expenses)



$ Change

% Change

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net

$

3.8

$

5.5

$

(1.7

)

(30.9

)%

Interest and other income

4.0

4.0

—

—

%

Gains from dispositions of real estate interests

5.2

7.4

(2.2

)

(29.7

)%

Development profits, net of taxes

8.5

14.4

(5.9

)

(41.0

)%

Interest expense, including amortization

(157.9

)

(146.2

)

11.7

8.0

%

Total other income and (expenses), net

$

(136.4

)

$

(114.9

)

$

21.5

18.7

%

The $1.7 million decrease in equity in earnings of
unconsolidated joint ventures was primarily due to decreased
occupancy at a property held by one of our joint ventures and
increased non-reimbursable expenses.


This decrease was offset by the receipt of a lease termination
fee at the above-mentioned property in Chicago in the first
quarter of 2004. The gains from dispositions of real estate (not
classified as discontinued operations) in 2004, resulted from
our contribution of $71.5 million in operating properties
to our newly formed unconsolidated co-investment joint venture,
AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC. The gains from disposition of real estate
(not classified as discontinued operations) in 2003, resulted
from our contribution of $94.0 million in operating
properties to our unconsolidated co-investment joint venture,
Industrial Fund I, LLC. The decrease in development
profits, net of taxes, resulted from delayed gains on
development sales. The increase in interest expense, including
amortization, was due to the issuance of additional unsecured
debt under our 2002 medium-term note program, increased
borrowings on the unsecured credit facilities, and additional
secured debt borrowings in our co-investment joint ventures.

Discontinued Operations



$ Change

% Change

Income attributable to discontinued operations, net of minority
    interests

$

5.6

$

18.9

$

(13.3

)

(70.4

)%

Gains from dispositions of real estate, net of minority interests

42.0

42.9

(0.9

)

(2.1

)%

Total discontinued operations

$

47.6

$

61.8

$

(14.2

)

(23.0

)%

During 2004, we divested ourselves of 21 industrial buildings,
two retail centers and one office building, aggregating
approximately 3.1 million square feet, for an aggregate
price of $200.3 million, with a resulting net gain of
$42.0 million. During 2003, we divested ourselves of 24
industrial buildings and two retail centers, aggregating
approximately 2.8 million square feet, for an aggregate
price of $272.3 million, with a resulting net gain of
$42.9 million. The decrease in income attributable to
discontinued operations reflects the fact that properties were
held for only a partial period in 2004 versus an entire year in
2003.

Preferred Stock



$ Change

% Change

Preferred stock dividends

$

(7.1

)

$

(7.0

)

$

0.1

1.4

%

Preferred stock and unit (issuance costs or premium)

—

(5.4

)

(5.4

)

(100.0

)%

Total preferred stock

$

(7.1

)

$

(12.4

)

$

(5.3

)

(42.7

)%

In July 2003, we redeemed all 3,995,800 outstanding shares of
our 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and
recognized a reduction of income available to common
stockholders of $3.7 million for the original issuance
costs. In addition, on November 26, 2003, the operating
partnership redeemed all 1,300,000 of its outstanding


/


%
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Partnership Units
and we recognized a reduction of income available to common
stockholders of $1.7 million for the original issuance
costs. In June and November 2003, we issued
2,000,000 shares of 6.5% Series L Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock and 2,300,000 shares of 6.75%
Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
respectively. The timing of the newly issued shares contributed
to the increase in preferred stock dividends.


For the Years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 (dollars
in millions)

The increase in U.S. industrial same store revenues were
primarily driven by increased rental revenues in our on-tarmac
and Los Angeles markets. These increases were partially offset
by decreased rental income in our San Francisco Bay Area
market and an increase in our allowances for doubtful accounts
of $4.0 million across the portfolio. The properties
acquired during 2003 consisted of 82 buildings, aggregating
approximately 6.5 million square feet. The development
revenue increase reflects the timing of the stabilization of
properties in the development pipeline. Other industrial
revenues include rental revenues from divested properties that
have been contributed to an unconsolidated joint venture, and
accordingly are not classified as discontinued operations in our
consolidated financial statements, and development projects that
have reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of
the same store operating pool of properties. In 2003, we
acquired properties in Mexico and France, resulting in increased
international industrial revenues. The increase in private
capital income was primarily due to incentive distributions
earned from AMB Partners II, L.P.


The $13.9 million increase in same store properties’
operating expenses was primarily due to increases in common area
maintenance expenses of $12.0 million and real estate taxes
of $2.9 million, partially offset by a decrease in
insurance expenses of $1.0 million. The 2003 acquisitions
consist of 82 buildings, aggregating approximately
6.5 million square feet. Other industrial expenses include
expenses from divested properties that have been contributed to
an unconsolidated joint venture, and accordingly are not
classified as discontinued operations in our consolidated
financial statements, and development properties that have
reached certain levels of operation and are not yet part of the
same store operating pool of properties. The increase in
depreciation and amortization expense was due to the increase in
our net investment in real estate, partially offset by a
reduction of $2.1 million for the recovery, through the
settlement of a lawsuit, of capital expenditures paid in prior
years. The 2003 impairment loss was on investments in real
estate and leasehold interests. The 2002 impairment included
losses for lease cost write-offs of $1.7 million and an
impairment on a portion of our planned property contributions of
$1.2 million. The increase in general and administrative
expenses was primarily due to increased stock-based compensation
expense of $2.8 million, partially offset by decreased
personnel costs and taxes. Fund costs represent general and
administrative costs paid to third parties associated with our
co-investment joint ventures.

Other Income and (Expenses)



$ Change

% Change

Equity in earnings of unconsolidated joint ventures, net

$

5.5

$

5.7

$

(0.2

)

(3.5

)%

Interest and other income

4.0

9.4

(5.4

)

(57.4

)%

Gains from dispositions of real estate interests

7.4

8.8

(1.4

)

(15.9

)%

Development profits, net of taxes

14.4

1.2

13.2

1,100.0

%

Interest expense, including amortization

(146.2

)

(142.9

)

3.3

2.3

%

Total other income and (expenses), net

$

(114.9

)

$

(117.8

)

$

(2.9

)

(2.5

)%

The decrease in interest and other income was primarily due to
the repayment in full of a $74.0 million 9.5% mortgage note
receivable in July 2002. Gains from dispositions of real estate
(not classified as discontinued operations) in 2003 resulted
from our contribution of $94.0 million in operating
properties to our unconsolidated co-investment joint venture,
Industrial Fund I, LLC, in February 2003. We recognized a
gain of $7.4 million on the contribution, representing the
portion of our interest in the contributed properties acquired
by the third-party investors for cash. During 2002, we sold two
industrial buildings and one retail center, aggregating
approximately 0.8 million square feet, for an aggregate
price of $50.6 million, with a resulting loss of
$0.8 million. In June 2002, we also contributed
$76.9 million in operating properties to our consolidated
co-investment joint venture, AMB-SGP, L.P. We recognized a gain
of $3.3 million, representing the sale of our interests in
the properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash.
In November 2002, our joint venture partner in AMB
Partners II, L.P. increased its ownership from 50% to 80%
by acquiring 30% of the operating partnership’s interest in
AMB Partners II, L.P. We recognized a gain of
$6.3 million on the sale of the operating
partnership’s 30% interest. The increase in development
profits, net of taxes, resulted from an increased sales volume
of $57.8 million in 2003.

Discontinued Operations



$ Change

% Change

Income attributable to discontinued operations, net of minority
    interests

$

18.9

$

28.4

$

(9.5

)

(33.5

)%

Gains from dispositions of real estate, net of minority interests

42.9

10.6

32.3

304.7

%

Total discontinued operations

$

61.8

$

39.0

$

22.8

58.5

%

During 2003, we divested ourselves of 24 industrial buildings
and two retail centers, aggregating approximately
2.8 million square feet, for an aggregate price of
$272.3 million, with a resulting net gain of
$42.9 million. During 2002, we divested ourselves of 56
industrial buildings, one retail center and an


undeveloped land parcel, aggregating approximately
4.9 million square feet, for an aggregate price of
$193.4 million, with a resulting net gain of
$10.6 million.

Preferred Stock



$ Change

% Change

Preferred stock dividends

$

(7.0

)

$

(8.5

)

$

(1.5

)

(17.6

)%

Preferred stock and unit redemption discount/(issuance costs or
    premium)

(5.4

)

0.4

5.8

1,450.0

%

Total preferred stock

$

(12.4

)

$

(8.1

)

$

4.3

53.1

%

In July 2003, we redeemed all 3,995,800 outstanding shares of
our 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock and
recognized a reduction of income available to common
stockholders of $3.7 million for the original issuance
costs. In addition, on November 26, 2003, the operating
partnership redeemed all 1,300,000 of its outstanding


/


%
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Partnership Units
and we recognized a reduction of income available to common
stockholders of $1.7 million for the original issuance
costs.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Balance Sheet Strategy.

In general, we use unsecured
lines of credit, unsecured notes, preferred stock and common
equity (issued by us and/or the operating partnership and its
subsidiaries) to capitalize our 100%-owned assets. Over time, we
plan to retire non-recourse, secured debt encumbering our
100%-owned assets and replace that debt with unsecured notes. In
managing our co-investment joint ventures, in general, we use
non-recourse, secured debt to capitalize our co-investment joint
ventures.

We currently expect that our principal sources of working
capital and funding for acquisitions, development, expansion and
renovation of properties will include:

We currently expect that our principal funding requirements will
include:

We believe that our sources of working capital, specifically our
cash flow from operations, borrowings available under our
unsecured credit facilities and our ability to access private
and public debt and equity capital, are adequate for us to meet
our liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. The
unavailability of capital could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.


Capital Resources

Property Contributions.

In December 2004, we contributed
$71.5 million in operating properties, consisting of eight
industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 1.3 million
square feet, to our newly formed unconsolidated joint venture,
AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte Ltd, a real
estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore
Investment Corporation, and recognized a gain of
$7.2 million representing the partial sale of our interest
in the contributed properties acquired by the third-party
co-investor for cash.

Property Divestitures.

During 2004, we divested ourselves
of 21 industrial buildings, two retail centers and one
office building, aggregating approximately 3.1 million
square feet, for an aggregate price of $200.3 million, with
a resulting net gain of $42.0 million.

Development Sales and Contributions.

During 2004, we sold
seven land parcels and six development projects as part of our
development-for-sale program, aggregating approximately
0.3 million square feet for an aggregate price of
$40.4 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of
$6.5 million. During 2004, we also contributed one
completed development project into a newly formed unconsolidated
joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC, and recognized an after-tax
gain of $2.0 million representing the partial sale of our
interest in the contributed property acquired by the third-party
co-investor for cash.

Properties Held for Divestiture.

As of December 31,
2004, we held for divestiture 25 industrial buildings and one
undeveloped land parcel, which are not in our core markets, do
not meet our current strategic objectives or which we have
included as part of our development-for-sale program. The
divestitures of these properties are subject to negotiation of
acceptable terms and other customary conditions. As of
December 31, 2004, the net carrying value of the properties
held for divestiture was $87.3 million. Expected net sales
proceeds exceed the net carrying value of the properties.

Co-investment Joint Ventures.

Through the operating
partnership, we enter into co-investment joint ventures with
institutional investors. These co-investment joint ventures are
managed by our private capital group and provide us with an
additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development
projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital
income. We generally consolidate these joint ventures for
financial reporting purposes because they are not variable
interest entities and because we are the sole managing general
partner and control all major operating decisions. However in
certain cases, our co-investment joint ventures are
unconsolidated.

During 2004, we formed AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III,
L.P. with $136.5 million of equity from co-investment
partners to invest in properties in the United States. During
2004, we contributed $71.5 million in operating properties,
consisting of eight industrial buildings, aggregating
approximately 1.3 million square feet, to our newly formed
unconsolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC.

Third-party equity interests in the joint ventures are reflected
as minority interests in the consolidated financial statements.
As of December 31, 2004, we owned approximately
40.8 million square feet of our properties (36.8% of the
total operating and development portfolio) through our
consolidated co-investment joint ventures and 4.6 million
square feet of our properties through our other consolidated
joint ventures. We may make additional investments through these
joint ventures or new joint ventures in the future and presently
plan to do so.


Our co-investment joint ventures at December 31, 2004
(dollars in thousands):

Our

Approximate

Ownership

Original Planned

Consolidated co-investment Joint Venture

Joint Venture Partner

Percentage

Capitalization(1)

AMB/Erie, L.P.

Erie Insurance Company and affiliates


%

$

200,000

AMB Institutional Alliance Fund I, L.P.

AMB Institutional Alliance REIT I, Inc.(2)


%

$

420,000

AMB Partners II, L.P.

City and County of San Francisco Employees’ Retirement
    System


%

$

500,000

AMB-SGP, L.P.

Industrial JV Pte Ltd(3)


%

$

425,000

AMB Institutional Alliance Fund II, L.P.

AMB Institutional Alliance REIT II, Inc.(4)


%

$

489,000

AMB-AMS, L.P.(5)

PMT, SPW and TNO(6)


%

$

200,000

AMB Institutional Alliance Fund III, L.P.(7)

AMB Institutional Alliance REIT III, Inc.


%

N/A

Our

Approximate

Ownership

Original Planned

Unconsolidated co-investment Joint Venture

Joint Venture Partner

Percentage

Capitalization(1)

AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC

Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte Ltd(2)


%

$

715,000

(1)

Planned capitalization includes anticipated debt and both
    partners’ expected equity contributions.

(2)

A real estate investment subsidiary of the Government of
    Singapore Investment Corporation.

Common and Preferred Equity.

We have authorized for
issuance 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which
the following series were designated as of December 31,
2004: 1,595,337 shares of series D cumulative
redeemable preferred stock; 220,440 shares of series E
cumulative redeemable preferred stock; 267,439 shares of
series F cumulative redeemable preferred stock;
840,000 shares of series H cumulative redeemable
preferred stock; 510,000 shares of series I cumulative
redeemable preferred stock; 800,000 shares of series J
cumulative redeemable preferred stock; 800,000 shares of
series K cumulative redeemable preferred stock;
2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable
preferred stock; and 2,300,000 shares of series M
cumulative redeemable preferred stock.

On June 23, 2003, we issued and sold 2,000,000 shares
of 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock at a
price of $25.00 per share. Dividends are cumulative from
the date of issuance and payable


quarterly in arrears at a rate per share equal to
$1.625 per annum. The series L preferred stock is
redeemable by us on or after June 23, 2008, subject to
certain conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to
$25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends
thereon, if any, to the redemption date. We contributed the net
proceeds of approximately $48.0 million to the operating
partnership, and in exchange, the operating partnership issued
to us 2,000,000 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Units. The operating partnership used the proceeds, in
addition to proceeds previously contributed to the operating
partnership from other equity issuances, to redeem all 3,995,800
of its 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units
from us on July 28, 2003. We, in turn, used those proceeds
to redeem all 3,995,800 of our 8.5% Series A Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock for $100.2 million, including
all accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, to the redemption
date.

On July 14, 2003, AMB Property II, L.P. repurchased,
from an unrelated third party, 66,300 of its series F
preferred units for $3.3 million, including accrued and
unpaid dividends.

On November 25, 2003, we issued and sold
2,300,000 shares of 6.75% Series M Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share. Dividends
are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly
in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.6875 per annum.
The series M preferred stock is redeemable by us on or
after November 25, 2008, subject to certain conditions, for
cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share, plus
accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the
redemption date. We contributed the net proceeds of
$55.4 million to the operating partnership, and in
exchange, the operating partnership issued to us 2,300,000 6.75%
Series M Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units.

On November 26, 2003, the operating partnership redeemed
all 1,300,000 of its outstanding


/


%
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Partnership Units,
for an aggregate redemption price of $65.6 million,
including accrued and unpaid dividends.

On September 24, 2004, AMB Property II, L.P., a
partnership in which Texas AMB I, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company and our indirect subsidiary, owns an
approximate 1.0% general partnership interest and the operating
partnership owns an approximate 99% common limited partnership
interest, issued 729,582 5.0% Series N Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units at a price of
$50.00 per unit. The series N preferred units were issued
to Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. in exchange for the
contribution of certain parcels of land that are located in
multiple markets to AMB Property II, L.P. Beginning
September 25, 2006 and until and including
September 25, 2009, the series N preferred units may
be redeemed by AMB Property II, L.P. at a redemption price
equal to 99.5% of the original $50.00 per unit capital
contribution, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to the
date of redemption, which shall be paid solely out of capital
contributed to AMB Property II, L.P. by Texas AMB I,
LLC or the operating partnership (other than with respect to the
accumulated but unpaid distributions). Pursuant to a Put
Agreement, dated September 24, 2004, by and between Robert
Pattillo Properties, Inc. and the operating partnership,
beginning on June 1, 2005 and until January 15, 2006,
the holders of the series N preferred units will have the
right to sell all, but not less than all, of such units to the
operating partnership (or to certain designees) at a price equal
to $50.00 per unit, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to
the date of such sale.

As of December 31, 2004, $90.8 million in preferred
units with a rate of 7.75%, issued by the operating partnership,
were callable under the terms of the partnership agreement.

In December 2003, our board of directors approved a new two-year
common stock repurchase program for the repurchase of up to
$200.0 million of our common stock. We did not repurchase
or retire any shares of our common stock during the year ended
December 31, 2004.

In December 2001, our board of directors approved a stock
repurchase program for the repurchase of up to
$100.0 million worth of our common and preferred stock. In
December 2002, our board of directors increased the 2001
repurchase program to $200.0 million. The 2001 stock
repurchase program expired in December 2003. During 2002, we
repurchased 2,651,600 shares of our common stock for
$69.4 million, including commissions. In July 2002, we also
repurchased 4,200 shares of our series A preferred
stock for an aggregate cost of $0.1 million, including
accrued and unpaid dividends.


During 2003, the operating partnership redeemed 226,145 of its
common limited partnership units for cash and 2,000 of its
common limited partnership units for shares of our common stock.
During 2002, the operating partnership redeemed 122,640 of its
common limited partnership units for shares of our common stock.

In November 2003, AMB Property II, L.P., one of our
subsidiaries, also issued 145,548 of its class B common
limited partnership units in connection with a property
acquisition.

Debt.

In order to maintain financial flexibility and
facilitate the deployment of capital through market cycles, we
presently intend to operate with an our share of total
debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio of
approximately 45% or less. As of December 31, 2004, our
share of total debt-to-our share of total market capitalization
ratio was 37.8%. Our definition of “our share of total
market capitalization” is our share of total debt plus
preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. See
footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratio table contained in
Part II, Item 7: “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for
our definition of “market equity” and footnote 2
to such table for our definition of “our share of total
debt.” However, we typically finance our co-investment
joint ventures with secured debt at a loan-to-value ratio of
50-65% per our joint venture partnership agreements.
Additionally, we currently intend to manage our capitalization
in order to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior
unsecured debt. Regardless of these policies, however, our
organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness
that we may incur. Accordingly, our management could alter or
eliminate these policies without stockholder approval or
circumstances could arise that could render us unable to comply
with these policies.

As of December 31, 2004, the aggregate principal amount of
our secured debt was $1.9 billion, excluding unamortized
debt premiums of $10.8 million. Of the $1.9 billion of
secured debt, $1.4 billion is secured by properties in our
joint ventures. The secured debt is generally non-recourse and
bears interest at rates varying from 0.7% to 10.4% per
annum (with a weighted average rate of 6.3%) and has final
maturity dates ranging from April 2005 to November 2022. As of
December 31, 2004, $1.8 billion of the secured debt
obligations bears interest at fixed rates with a weighted
average interest rate of 6.5% while the remaining
$96.6 million bears interest at variable rates (with a
weighted average interest rate of 2.5%).

As of December 31, 2004, the operating partnership had
issued an aggregate of $1.0 billion in unsecured senior
debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of
6.6% and had an average term of 4.6 years. These unsecured
senior debt securities include $400.0 million in notes,
issued in June 1998, $400.0 million of medium-term notes,
which were issued under the operating partnership’s 2000
medium-term note program, and $225.0 million of medium-term
notes, which were issued under the operating partnership’s
2002 medium-term note program. As of December 31, 2004, the
operating partnership’s 2002 medium-term note program has a
remaining capacity of $175.0 million. The operating
partnership intends to continue to issue medium-term notes,
guaranteed by us, under the 2002 program from time to time and
as market conditions permit.

In August 2000, the operating partnership commenced a
medium-term note program and subsequently issued
$400.0 million of medium-term notes with a weighted average
interest rate of 7.3%. These notes mature between December 2005
and September 2011 and are guaranteed by us.

In May 2002, the operating partnership commenced a new
medium-term note program for the issuance of up to
$400.0 million in principal amount of medium-term notes,
which will be guaranteed by us. On November 10, 2003, the
operating partnership issued $75.0 million aggregate
principal amount of senior unsecured notes to Teachers Insurance
and Annuity Association of America under the 2002 medium-term
note program. We guaranteed the principal amount and interest on
the notes, which mature on November 1, 2013, and bear
interest at 5.53% per annum. Teachers has agreed that until
November 10, 2005, the operating partnership can require
Teachers to return the notes to it for cancellation for an
obligation of equal dollar amount under a first mortgage loan to
be secured by properties determined by the operating
partnership, except that in the event the ratings on operating
partnership’s senior unsecured debt are downgraded by two
ratings agencies to BBB-, the operating partnership will only
have ten days after the last of these downgrades to exercise
this right. During the period when the operating partnership can
exercise its cancellation right and


until any mortgage loans close, Teachers has agreed not to sell,
contract to sell, pledge, transfer or otherwise dispose of, any
portion of the notes. On December 9, 2004, we returned
$21.1 million of these senior unsecured notes for
cancellation and Teachers issued a first mortgage loan in this
principal amount that is secured by certain properties in one of
our joint ventures.

In June 1998, the operating partnership issued
$400.0 million of unsecured senior debt securities.
Interest on the unsecured senior debt securities is payable
semi-annually. The 2015 notes are putable and callable in
September 2005.

We guarantee the operating partnership’s obligations with
respect to its senior debt securities. If we are unable to
refinance or extend principal payments due at maturity or pay
them with proceeds from other capital transactions, then our
cash flow may be insufficient to pay dividends to our
stockholders in all years and to repay debt upon maturity.
Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at
the time of refinancing (such as the reluctance of lenders to
make commercial real estate loans) result in higher interest
rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to
that refinanced indebtedness would increase. This increased
interest expense would adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock.

Credit Facilities.

On June 1, 2004, the operating
partnership completed the early renewal of its senior unsecured
revolving line of credit in the amount of $500.0 million.
We remain a guarantor of the operating partnership’s
obligations under the credit facility. The three-year credit
facility includes a multi-currency component under which up to
$250.0 million can be drawn in Yen, Euros or British Pounds
Sterling. The line, which matures in June 2007 and carries a
one-year extension option, can be increased up to
$700.0 million upon certain conditions, and replaces the
operating partnership’s previous $500.0 million credit
facility that was to mature in December 2005. The rate on the
borrowings is generally LIBOR plus a margin, based on the
operating partnership’s long-term debt rating, which is
currently 60 basis points with an annual facility fee of
20 basis points, based on the current credit rating of the
operating partnership’s long-term debt. The operating
partnership uses its unsecured credit facility principally for
acquisitions, funding development activity and general working
capital requirements. The total amount available under the
credit facility fluctuates based upon the borrowing base, as
defined in the agreement governing the credit facility, which is
generally based upon the value of our unencumbered properties.
As of December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance on the
credit facility was $235.1 million and the remaining amount
available was $251.0 million, net of outstanding letters of
credit of $13.9 million (excluding the additional
$200.0 million of potential additional capacity). The
outstanding balance included borrowings denominated in Euros and
Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on
December 31, 2004, would equal approximately
$114.6 million and $92.5 million in U.S. dollars,
respectively. As of December 31, 2004, we had an additional
outstanding balance of $27.8 million on other credit
facilities.

On June 29, 2004, AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of
the operating partnership, entered into an unsecured revolving
credit agreement providing for loans or letters of credit in a
maximum principal amount outstanding at any time of up to
24 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on
December 31, 2004, equaled approximately
$233.8 million U.S. dollars. We, along with the
operating partnership, guarantee the obligations of AMB Japan
Finance Y.K. under the revolving credit facility, as well as the
obligations of any other entity in which the operating
partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest,
and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under
and pursuant to the revolving credit agreement. The borrowers
intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the
acquisition and development of properties and for other real
estate purposes in Japan. Generally, borrowers under the
revolving credit facility have the option to secure all or a
portion of the borrowings under the revolving credit facility
with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding
such real estate assets. The revolving credit facility matures
in June 2007 and has a one-year extension option, which is
subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and the
payment of an extension fee equal to 0.25% of the outstanding
commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the
borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on
the current credit rating of the operating partnership’s
long-term debt and is currently 60 basis points. In
addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly
amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the operating
partnership’s long-term debt, and is currently
20 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the
facility. As of December 31, 2004,


the outstanding balance on this credit facility, using the
exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2004, was
$88.8 million in U.S. dollars.

On November 24, 2004, AMB Tokai TMK, a Japanese subsidiary
of the operating partnership, entered into a secured
multi-advance project financing, providing for loans in a
maximum principal amount outstanding at any time of up to
20 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on
December 31, 2004, would equal approximately
$194.9 million U.S. dollars. The financing agreement
is among AMB Tokai TMK, us, the operating partnership, Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corporation and a syndicate of banks. We, along
with the operating partnership, jointly and severally guarantee
AMB Tokai TMK’s obligations under the financing agreement,
pursuant to a guaranty of payment executed in connection with
the project financing. The financing is secured by a mortgage on
certain real property located in Tokai, Tokyo, Japan, and
matures on October 31, 2006 with a one-year extension
option. The rate on the borrowings will generally be TIBOR plus
a margin, which is based on the credit rating of the operating
partnership’s long-term debt and is currently 60 basis
points per annum, except that AMB Tokai TMK has purchased from
Sumitomo an interest rate swap, which has fixed the interest
rate payable on a principal amount equal to 13 billion Yen
at 1.32% per annum plus the applicable margin. In addition,
there is an annual commitment fee based on unused commitments,
payable quarterly, which is based on the credit rating of the
operating partnership’s long-term debt, and is currently
20 basis points of the amount of unused commitments. The
financing agreement contains customary and other affirmative
covenants, including financial reporting requirements and
maintenance of specified financial ratios, and negative
covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of liens and
limitations on mergers or consolidations. In addition, Sumitomo,
AMB Tokai TMK and the operating partnership signed a commitment
letter on November 24, 2004, pursuant to which Sumitomo
committed to purchase bonds that may be issued by AMB Tokai TMK
in an amount between 10 billion Yen and 15 billion Yen
(such amount to be determined by AMB Tokai TMK). The bonds would
be secured by the AMB Ohta Distribution Center and would
generally accrue interest at a rate of TIBOR plus 1.10% per
annum; because the swap purchased by AMB Tokai TMK from Sumitomo
is coterminous with the maturity date of the proposed bonds, AMB
Tokai TMK will have fixed the interest rate payable on, in
general, a principal amount equal to 13 billion Yen at
2.42% per annum. The bonds, if issued, would mature on
October 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2004, the
outstanding balance on this financing agreement was
14 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on
December 31, 2004, equaled approximately
$136.4 million U.S. dollars.

Mortgages Receivable.

Through a wholly-owned subsidiary,
we hold a mortgage loan receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC, an
unconsolidated joint venture. The note bears interest at 13.0%
and matures in May 2026. As of December 31, 2004, the
outstanding balance on the note was $12.9 million. We also
hold a short-term mortgage on a sold property totaling
$0.8 million with an interest rate of 12.0%. The mortgage
matures in November 2006.

The tables below summarize our debt maturities and
capitalization as of December 31, 2004 (dollars in
thousands):


Market Equity

Shares/Units

Market

Market

Security

Outstanding

Price

Value

Common stock

83,248,640

$

40.39

$

3,362,413

Common limited partnership units(1)

4,746,104

$

40.39

191,695

Total

87,994,744

$

3,554,108


(1)

Includes 145,548 class B common limited partnership units
    issued by AMB Property II, L.P. in November 2003.

Capitalization Ratios as of December 31, 2004

Total debt-to-total market capitalization(1)

46.0

%

Our share of total debt-to-our share of total market
    capitalization(1)(2)(3)

37.8

%

Total debt plus preferred-to-total market capitalization(1)(3)

51.4

%

Our share of total debt plus preferred-to-our share of total
    market capitalization(1)(2)(3)

44.0

%

Our share of total debt-to-our share of total book
    capitalization(1)(4)

54.0

%

Liquidity

As of December 31, 2004, we had $109.4 million in cash
and cash equivalents (of which $69.0 million was held by
our consolidated co-investment joint ventures), and
$418.3 million of additional available


borrowings under our credit facilities. As of December 31,
2004, we had $37.2 million in restricted cash (of which
$21.2 million was held by our consolidated co-investment
joint ventures).

Our board of directors declared a regular cash dividend for the
quarter ended December 31, 2004 of $0.425 per share of
common stock, and the operating partnership announced its
intention to pay a regular cash distribution for the quarter
ended December 31, 2004 of $0.425 per common unit. The
dividends and distributions were payable on January 7, 2005
to stockholders and unitholders of record on December 23,
2004. The series L and M preferred stock dividends were
payable on January 17, 2005 to stockholders of record on
January 6, 2005. The series E, F, J and K preferred
unit quarterly distributions were payable on January 17,
2005. The series D, H and I preferred unit quarterly
distributions were payable on December 27, 2004. The
following table sets forth the dividends and distributions paid
or payable per share or unit for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002:

The anticipated size of our distributions, using only cash from
operations, will not allow us to retire all of our debt as it
comes due. Therefore, we intend to also repay maturing debt with
net proceeds from future debt or equity financings, as well as
property divestitures. However, we may not be able to obtain
future financings on favorable terms or at all. Our inability to
obtain future financings on favorable terms or at all would
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock.

Capital Commitments

Developments.

In addition to recurring capital
expenditures, which consist of building improvements and leasing
costs incurred to renew or re-tenant space, during 2004, we
initiated 14 new industrial development projects in the United
States and Mexico with a total estimated investment of
$235.4 million, aggregating an estimated 3.1 million
square feet, four new industrial developments in Japan and
Singapore with a total expected investment of
$368.8 million, aggregating approximately 2.7 million
square feet, and one new industrial development in Europe with a
total expected investment of $44.3 million, aggregating
approximately 0.3 million square feet. As of
December 31, 2004, we had 30 projects in our development
pipeline representing a total estimated investment of
$828.7 million upon completion, of which four industrial
projects with a total of 1.2 million square feet and an
aggregate estimated investment of $55.0 million upon
completion are held in unconsolidated joint ventures. In
addition, we held four development projects available for sale,
representing a total estimated investment of $29.2 million
upon completion. Of this total, $515.2 million had been
funded as of December 31, 2004 and an estimated
$342.7 million was required to


complete current and planned projects. We expect to fund these
expenditures with cash from operations, borrowings under our
credit facilities, debt or equity issuances, net proceeds from
property divestitures and private capital from co-investment
partners, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow.

Acquisitions.

During 2004, we acquired 64 industrial
buildings, aggregating approximately 7.6 million square
feet for a total expected investment of $695.2 million, of
which we acquired 48 industrial buildings aggregating
approximately 4.2 million square feet through three of our
co-investment joint ventures, for a total expected investment of
$261.0 million. We generally fund our acquisitions through
private capital contributions, borrowings under our credit
facilities, cash, debt issuances and net proceeds from property
divestitures.

Lease Commitments.

We have entered into operating ground
leases on certain land parcels, primarily on-tarmac facilities
and office space with remaining lease terms from two to
58 years. These operating lease payments are amortized
ratably over the terms of the related leases. Future minimum
rental payments required under non-cancelable operating leases
in effect as of December 31, 2004 were as follows (dollars
in thousands):


$

10,810


11,320


11,280


11,310


11,169

Thereafter

222,437

Total

$

278,326

Co-investment Joint Ventures.

Through the operating
partnership, we enter into co-investment joint ventures with
institutional investors. These co-investment joint ventures are
managed by our private capital group and provide us with an
additional source of capital to fund acquisitions, development
projects and renovation projects, as well as private capital
income. As of December 31, 2004, we had investments in
co-investment joint ventures with a gross book value of
$2.6 billion, which are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes, and investments in an unconsolidated
co-investment joint venture of $9.5 million. As of
December 31, 2004, we may make additional capital
contributions to current and planned co-investment joint
ventures of up to $47.9 million. From time to time, we may
raise additional equity commitments for AMB Institutional
Alliance Fund III, L.P., an open-ended consolidated
co-investment joint venture formed in 2004 with institutional
investors, which invest through a private real estate investment
trust. Pursuant to the terms of the partnership agreement of
this fund, we are obligated to contribute 20% of the total
equity commitments to the fund until such time our total equity
commitment is greater than $150 million, at which time, our
obligation is reduced to 10% of the total equity commitments. We
expect to fund these contributions with cash from operations,
borrowings under our credit facilities, debt or equity issuances
or net proceeds from property divestitures, which could
adversely effect our cash flow.

Captive Insurance Company.

In December 2001, we formed a
wholly-owned captive insurance company, Arcata National
Insurance Ltd., which provides insurance coverage for all or a
portion of losses below the deductible under our third-party
policies. We capitalized Arcata National Insurance Ltd. in
accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements. Arcata
National Insurance Ltd. established annual premiums based on
projections derived from the past loss experience of our
properties. Annually, we engage an independent third party to
perform an actuarial estimate of future projected claims,
related deductibles and projected expenses necessary to fund
associated risk management programs. Premiums paid to Arcata
National Insurance Ltd. may be adjusted based on this estimate.
Premiums paid to Arcata National Insurance Ltd. have a
retrospective component, so that if expenses, including losses
and deductibles, are less than premiums collected, the excess
may be returned to the property owners (and, in turn, as
appropriate, to the customers) and conversely, subject to
certain limitations, if expenses, including losses, are greater
than premiums collected, an additional premium will be charged.
As with all recoverable expenses, differences between estimated
and actual insurance premiums are recognized in the subsequent
year. Through this


structure, we believe that we have more comprehensive insurance
coverage at an overall lower cost than would otherwise be
available in the market.

Potential Unknown Liabilities.

Unknown liabilities may
include the following:

Overview of Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our debt, interest and lease
payments due by period as of December 31, 2004 (dollars in
thousands):

Less than

More than

Contractual Obligations

1 Year

1-3 Years

3-5 Years

5 Years

Total

Debt

$

359,847

$

743,280

$

618,012

$

1,525,286

$

3,246,425

Debt interest payments

25,154

30,438

36,117

108,280

199,989

Operating lease commitments

10,810

22,600

22,479

222,437

278,326

Total

$

395,811

$

796,318

$

676,608

$

1,856,003

$

3,724,740

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Standby Letters of Credit.

As of December 31, 2004,
we had provided approximately $33.6 million in letters of
credit, of which $13.9 million was provided under the
operating partnership’s $500.0 million unsecured
credit facility. The letters of credit were required to be
issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank guarantees
and other commitments.

Guarantees.

Other than parent guarantees associated with
the unsecured debt of the operating partnership, as of
December 31, 2004, we had outstanding guarantees in the
aggregate amount of $34.7 million in connection with
certain acquisitions and lease obligations of which
$8.3 million was backed by standby letters of credit. As of
December 31, 2004, we guaranteed $4.8 million on
outstanding construction loans on two of our unconsolidated
joint ventures. Additionally, we provided a take out guarantee
after the completion of construction on the aggregate
construction loan amount of $30.2 million for another of
our unconsolidated joint ventures, of which $20.9 million
was outstanding as of December 31, 2004. In connection with
this construction loan, our joint venture partner provides an
underlying construction loan guarantee up to the completion of
construction.

Performance and Surety Bonds.

As of December 31,
2004, we had outstanding performance and surety bonds in an
aggregate amount of $1.2 million. These bonds were issued
in connection with certain of our development projects and were
posted to guarantee certain tax obligations and the construction
of certain real property improvements and infrastructure, such
as grading, sewers and streets. Performance and surety bonds are
commonly required by public agencies from real estate
developers. Performance and surety bonds are renewable and
expire upon the payment of the taxes due or the completion of
the improvements and infrastructure.

Promoted Interests and Other Contractual Obligations.

Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the
occurrence of certain events, we may be obligated to make
payments to certain of joint venture partners pursuant to the
terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with us.
From time to


time in the normal course of our business, we enter into various
contracts with third parties that may obligate us to make
payments or perform other obligations upon the occurrence of
certain events.

SUPPLEMENTAL EARNINGS MEASURES

FFO.

We believe that net income, as defined by GAAP, is
the most appropriate earnings measure. However, we consider
funds from operations, or FFO, as defined by the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
(“NAREIT”), to be a useful supplemental measure of our
operating performance. FFO is defined as net income, calculated
in accordance with GAAP, less gains (or losses) from
dispositions of real estate held for investment purposes and
real estate-related depreciation, and adjustments to derive our
pro rata share of FFO of consolidated and unconsolidated joint
ventures. Further, we do not adjust FFO to eliminate the effects
of non-recurring charges. We believe that FFO, as defined by
NAREIT, is a meaningful supplemental measure of our operating
performance because historical cost accounting for real estate
assets in accordance with GAAP implicitly assumes that the value
of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as
reflected through depreciation and amortization expenses.
However, since real estate values have historically risen or
fallen with market and other conditions, many industry investors
and analysts have considered presentation of operating results
for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to
be insufficient. Thus, NAREIT created FFO as a supplemental
measure of operating performance for real estate investment
trusts that excludes historical cost depreciation and
amortization, among other items, from net income, as defined by
GAAP. We believe that the use of FFO, combined with the required
GAAP presentations, has been beneficial in improving the
understanding of operating results of real estate investment
trusts among the investing public and making comparisons of
operating results among such companies more meaningful. We
consider FFO to be a useful measure for reviewing our
comparative operating and financial performance because, by
excluding gains or losses related to sales of previously
depreciated operating real estate assets and real estate
depreciation and amortization, FFO can help the investing public
compare the operating performance of a company’s real
estate between periods or as compared to other companies.

While FFO is a relevant and widely used measure of operating
performance of real estate investment trusts, it does not
represent cash flow from operations or net income as defined by
GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to those
measures in evaluating our liquidity or operating performance.
FFO also does not consider the costs associated with capital
expenditures related to our real estate assets nor is FFO
necessarily indicative of cash available to fund our future cash
requirements. Further, our computation of FFO may not be
comparable to FFO reported by other real estate investment
trusts that do not define the term in accordance with the
current NAREIT definition or that interpret the current NAREIT
definition differently than we do.

The following table reflects the calculation of FFO reconciled
from net income for the years ended December 31 (dollars in
thousands):






Net income

$

125,471

$

129,128

$

121,119

$

136,200

$

121,782

Gains from dispositions of real estate

(47,224

)

(50,325

)

(19,383

)

(41,859

)

(7,044

)

Real estate related depreciation and amortization:

Total depreciation and amortization

160,026

132,167

121,069

101,455

81,523

Discontinued operations’ depreciation

7,324

10,170

15,434

12,088

8,835

Furniture, fixtures and equipment depreciation

(871

)

(720

)

(712

)

(731

)

(380

)

Ground lease amortization

—

—

(2,301

)

(1,232

)

(734

)



BUSINESS RISKS

Our operations involve various risks that could have adverse
consequences to us. These risks include, among others:

General Real Estate Industry Risks

Our performance and value are subject to general economic
    conditions and risks associated with our real estate
    assets.

The investment returns available from equity investments in real
estate depend on the amount of income earned and capital
appreciation generated by the properties, as well as the
expenses incurred in connection with the properties. If our
properties do not generate income sufficient to meet operating
expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, then
our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders could be
adversely affected. In addition, there are significant
expenditures associated with an investment in real estate (such
as mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs)
that generally do not decline when circumstances reduce the
income from the property. Income from, and the value of, our
properties may be adversely affected by:

In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession in the
United States and in other countries, rising interest rates or
declining demand for real estate, or public perception that any
of these events may occur, would result in a general decrease in
rents or an increased occurrence of defaults under existing
leases, which would adversely affect our financial condition and
results of operations. Future terrorist attacks may result in
declining economic activity, which could reduce the demand for
and the value of our properties. To the extent that future
attacks impact our customers, their businesses similarly could
be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to
honor their existing leases.

Our properties are concentrated predominantly in the industrial
real estate sector. As a result of this concentration, we would
feel the impact of an economic downturn in this sector more
acutely than if our portfolio included other property types.

We may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases
    expire.

As of December 31, 2004, leases on a total of 16.3% of our
industrial properties (based on annualized base rent) will
expire on or prior to December 31, 2005. We derive most of
our income from rent received from our customers. Accordingly,
our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
our ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our
stock could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly
relet or renew these expiring leases, if the rental rates upon
renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected. If a
tenant experiences a downturn in its business or other type of
financial distress, then it may be unable to make timely rental
payments or renew its lease. Further, our ability to rent space
and the rents that we can charge are impacted, not only by
customer demand, but by the number of other properties we have
to compete with to appeal to customers.


Actions by our competitors may decrease or prevent
    increases of the occupancy and rental rates of our
    properties.

We compete with other developers, owners and operators of real
estate, some of which own properties similar to ours in the same
submarkets in which our properties are located. If our
competitors offer space at rental rates below current market
rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our tenants,
we may lose potential tenants, and we may be pressured to reduce
our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to
retain tenants when our tenants’ leases expire. As a
result, our financial condition, cash flow, cash available for
distribution, trading price of our common stock and ability to
satisfy our debt service obligations could be materially
adversely affected.

Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, making it
    difficult for us to respond promptly to changing
    conditions.

Real estate assets are not as liquid as certain other types of
assets. Further, as a real estate investment trust, the Internal
Revenue Code regulates the number of properties that we can
dispose of in a year, their tax bases and the cost of
improvements that we make to the properties. In addition, a
portion of the properties held directly or indirectly by certain
of our subsidiary partnerships were acquired in exchange for
limited partnership units in the applicable partnership. The
contribution agreements for such properties may contain
restrictions on certain sales, exchanges or other dispositions
of these properties, or a portion thereof, that result in a
taxable transaction for specified periods, following the
contribution of these properties to the applicable partnership.
These limitations may affect our ability to sell properties.
This lack of liquidity and the Internal Revenue Code
restrictions may limit our ability to vary our portfolio
promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions
and, as a result, could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flow and our ability to
pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.

We could be adversely affected if a significant number of our
tenants are unable to meet their lease obligations.

Our results of operations, distributable cash flow and the value
of our common stock would be adversely affected if a significant
number of our tenants were unable to meet their lease
obligations to us. In the event of a significant number of lease
defaults, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay dividends
to our stockholders and repay maturing debt. As of
December 31, 2004, we did not have any single tenant
account for annualized base rent revenues greater than 3.4%.
However, in the event of lease defaults by a significant number
of our tenants, we may incur substantial costs in enforcing our
rights as landlord.

We may be unable to consummate acquisitions on advantageous
terms or acquisitions may not perform as we expect.

We acquire and intend to continue to acquire primarily
industrial properties. The acquisition of properties entails
various risks, including the risks that our investments may not
perform as we expect, that we may be unable to quickly and
efficiently integrate our new acquisitions into our existing
operations and that our cost estimates for bringing an acquired
property up to market standards may prove inaccurate. Further,
we face significant competition for attractive investment
opportunities from other well-capitalized real estate investors,
including both publicly-traded real estate investment trusts and
private institutional investment funds. This competition
increases as investments in real estate become increasingly
attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of
competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties
as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly
elevated. In addition, we expect to finance future acquisitions
through a combination of borrowings under our unsecured credit
facility, proceeds from equity or debt offerings by us or the
operating partnership or its subsidiaries and proceeds from
property divestitures, which may not be available and which
could adversely affect our cash flow. Any of the above risks
could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
market price of, our stock.


We may be unable to complete renovation and development
projects on advantageous terms.

As part of our business, we develop new and renovate existing
properties. The real estate development and renovation business
involves significant risks that could adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock,
which include:

Risks Associated With Our International Business

Our international growth is subject to special risks and
    we may not be able to effectively manage our international
    growth.

We have acquired and developed, and expect to continue to
acquire and develop, properties in international countries.
Because local markets affect our operations, our international
investments are subject to economic fluctuations in the
international locations in which we invest. In addition, our
international operations are subject to the usual risks of doing
business abroad such as revisions in tax treaties or other laws
and regulations, including those governing the taxation of our
international revenues, restrictions on the transfer of funds,
and, in certain parts of the world, property rights uncertainty
and political instability. We cannot predict the likelihood that
any of these developments may occur. Further, we have entered,
and may in the future enter, into agreements with
non-U.S. entities that are governed by the laws of, and are
subject to dispute resolution in the courts of, another country
or region. We cannot accurately predict whether such a forum
would provide us with an effective and efficient means of
resolving disputes that may arise. And even if we are able to
obtain a satisfactory decision through arbitration or a court
proceeding, we could have difficulty enforcing any award or
judgment on a timely basis or at all.

Further, our business has grown rapidly and continues to grow
through international property acquisitions and developments. If
we fail to effectively manage our international growth, then our
financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock
could be adversely affected.

Acquired properties may be located in new markets, where
    we may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar
    market.

We have acquired and may continue to acquire properties in
international markets that are new to us. When we acquire
properties located in these markets, we may face risks
associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of
the local economy, forging new business relationships in the
area and unfamiliarity with local government and permitting
procedures. We work to mitigate such risks through extensive
diligence and research and associations with experienced
partners, however there can be no guarantee that all such risks
will be eliminated.


We are subject to risks from potential fluctuations in
    exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the currencies
    of the other countries in which we invest.

We are pursuing, and intend to continue to pursue, growth
opportunities in international markets. As we invest in
countries where the U.S. dollar is not the national
currency, we are subject to international currency risks from
the potential fluctuations in exchange rates between the
U.S. dollar and the currencies of those other countries. A
significant depreciation in the value of the currency of one or
more countries where we have a significant investment may
materially affect our results of operations. We attempt to
mitigate any such effects by borrowing under our multi-currency
credit facility in the currency of the country we are investing
in and, under certain circumstances, by putting in place
international currency put option contracts hedging exchange
rate fluctuations. For leases denominated in international
currencies, we may use derivative financial instruments to
manage the international exchange risk. We cannot, however,
assure you that our efforts will successfully neutralize all
international currency risks. If we do engage in international
currency exchange rate hedging activities, any income recognized
with respect to these hedges (as well as any international
currency gain recognized with respect to changes in exchange
rates) may not qualify under the 75% gross income test or the
95% gross income test that we must satisfy annually in order to
qualify and maintain our status as a REIT.

Our performance and value are impacted by the local economic
conditions of and the risks associated with doing business in
California.

As of December 31, 2004, our industrial properties located
in California represented 27.0% of the aggregate square footage
of our industrial operating properties and 27.8% of our
industrial annualized base rent. Our revenue from, and the value
of, our properties located in California may be affected by
local real estate conditions (such as an oversupply of or
reduced demand for industrial properties) and the local economic
climate. Business layoffs, downsizing, industry slowdowns,
changing demographics, and other factors may adversely impact
California’s economic climate. Because of the number of
properties we have located in California, a downturn in
California’s economy or real estate conditions could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock.

We may experience losses that our insurance does not
cover.

We carry commercial liability, property and rental loss
insurance covering all the properties that we own and manage in
types and amounts that we believe are adequate and appropriate
given the relative risks applicable to the property, the cost of
coverage and industry practice. Certain losses, such as those
due to terrorism, windstorms, floods or seismic activity, may be
insured subject to certain limitations, including large
deductibles or co-payments and policy limits. Although we have
obtained coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy
specifications and insured limits that we consider commercially
reasonable given the cost and availability of such coverage, we
cannot be certain that we will be able to renew coverage on
comparable terms or collect under such policies. In addition,
there are other types of losses, such as those from riots,
bio-terrorism, or acts of war, that are not generally insured in
our industry because it is not economically feasible to do so.
We may incur material losses in excess of insurance proceeds and
we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance at
commercially reasonable rates. If we experience a loss that is
uninsured or that exceeds our insured limits with respect to one
or more of our properties, then we could lose the capital
invested in the damaged properties, as well as the anticipated
future revenue from those properties and, if there is recourse
debt, then we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or
other financial obligations related to the properties. Moreover,
as the general partner of the operating partnership, we
generally will be liable for all of the operating
partnership’s unsatisfied recourse obligations, including
any obligations incurred by the operating partnership as the
general partner of co-investment joint ventures. Any such losses
could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
market price of, our stock.

A number of our properties are located in areas that are known
to be subject to earthquake activity. Domestic properties
located in active seismic areas include properties in the
San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles, Memphis and Seattle.
Our largest concentration of such properties is in California
where, as of


December 31, 2004, we had 289 industrial buildings,
aggregating approximately 24.4 million square feet and
representing 27.0% of our industrial operating properties based
on aggregate square footage and 27.8% based on industrial
annualized base rent. International properties located in active
seismic areas include Tokyo and Osaka, Japan and Mexico City,
Mexico. We carry replacement-cost earthquake insurance on all of
our properties located in areas historically subject to seismic
activity, subject to coverage limitations and deductibles that
we believe are commercially reasonable. We evaluate our
earthquake insurance coverage annually in light of current
industry practice through an analysis prepared by outside
consultants.

We are subject to risks and liabilities in connection with
properties owned through joint ventures, limited liability
companies and partnerships.

As of December 31, 2004, we owned approximately
55.6 million square feet of our properties through several
joint ventures, limited liability companies or partnerships with
third parties. Our organizational documents do not limit the
amount of available funds that we may invest in partnerships,
limited liability companies or joint ventures and we intend to
continue to develop and acquire properties through joint
ventures, limited liability companies and partnerships with
other persons or entities when warranted by the circumstances.
Such partners may share certain approval rights over major
decisions. Partnership, limited liability company or joint
venture investments involve certain risks, including:

We generally seek to maintain sufficient control of our
partnerships, limited liability companies, and joint ventures to
permit us to achieve our business objectives, however, we may
not be able to do so, and the occurrence of one or more of the
events described above could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.

We may be unable to complete divestitures on advantageous
terms or contribute properties.

We intend to continue to divest ourselves of properties that do
not meet our strategic objectives, provided that we can
negotiate acceptable terms and conditions. Our ability to
dispose of properties on advantageous terms depends on factors
beyond our control, including competition from other sellers and
the availability of attractive financing for potential buyers of
our properties. If we are unable to dispose of properties on
favorable terms or redeploy the proceeds of property
divestitures in accordance with our investment strategy, then our


financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and
ability to pay dividends on, and the market price of, our stock
could be adversely affected.

We also anticipate contributing or selling properties to funds
and joint ventures. If we do not have sufficient properties
available that meet the investment criteria of current or future
property funds, or if the funds have reduced or no access to
capital on favorable terms, then such contributions or sales
could be delayed or prevented, adversely affecting our financial
condition, results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay
dividends on, and the market price of, our stock.

Contingent or unknown liabilities could adversely affect our
financial condition.

We have and may in the future acquire properties subject to
liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited
recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a
liability were asserted against us based upon ownership of any
of these entities or properties, then we might have to pay
substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our
cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to entities or
properties acquired might include:

We are dependent on external sources of capital.

In order to qualify as a real estate investment trust, we are
required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least
90% of our real estate investment trust taxable income
(determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and
by excluding any net capital gain) and are taxed on our income
to the extent it is not fully distributed. Consequently, we may
not be able to fund all future capital needs, including
acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from
operations and must rely on third-party sources of capital.
Further, in order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the
payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds
on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements
even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable
for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could
result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of
cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or
the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation
of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our
ability to access private debt and equity capital on favorable
terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors,
including, general market conditions, the market’s
perception of our growth potential, our current and potential
future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of
our capital stock.

Debt Financing Risks

We could incur more debt, increasing our debt
    service.

It is our policy to incur debt, either directly or through our
subsidiaries, only if it will not cause our share of total
debt-to-our share of total market capitalization ratio to exceed
approximately 45%. Our definition of “our share of total
market capitalization” is our share of total debt plus
preferred equity liquidation preferences plus market equity. See
footnote 1 to the Capitalization Ratio table contained in
Part II, Item 7: “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operation — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for
our definition of “market equity” and footnote 2
to such table for our definition of “our share of total
debt.” The aggregate amount of indebtedness that we may
incur under our policy increases directly with an increase in
the market price per share of our capital stock. Further, our
management could alter or eliminate this policy without
stockholder approval. If we change this policy, then we could
become


more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service
that could adversely affect the cash available for distribution
to our stockholders.

We face risks associated with the use of debt to fund
    acquisitions and developments, including refinancing
    risk.

As of December 31, 2004, we had total debt outstanding of
$3.3 billion. We guarantee the operating partnership’s
obligations with respect to the senior debt securities
referenced in our financial statements. We are subject to risks
normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that
our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of
principal and interest. We anticipate that we will repay only a
small portion of the principal of our debt prior to maturity.
Accordingly, we will likely need to refinance at least a portion
of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we
may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of
any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of our
existing debt. If we are unable to refinance or extend principal
payments due at maturity or pay them with proceeds of other
capital transactions, then we expect that our cash flow will not
be sufficient in all years to pay dividends to our stockholders
and to repay all such maturing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing
interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing (such
as the reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate
loans) result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then
the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness
would increase.

In addition, if we mortgage one or more of our properties to
secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet
mortgage payments, then the property could be foreclosed upon or
transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income
and asset value. A foreclosure on one or more of our properties
could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the
market price of, our stock.

Covenants in our debt agreements could adversely affect
    our financial condition.

The terms of our credit agreements and other indebtedness
require that we comply with a number of customary financial and
other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage and
leverage ratios and maintaining insurance coverage. These
covenants may limit flexibility in our operations, and our
failure to comply with these covenants could cause a default
under the applicable debt agreement even if we have satisfied
our payment obligations. As of December 31, 2004, we had
certain non-recourse, secured loans, which are
cross-collateralized by multiple properties. If we default on
any of these loans, we may then be required to repay such
indebtedness, together with applicable prepayment charges, to
avoid foreclosure on all the cross-collateralized properties
within the applicable pool. Foreclosure on our properties, or
our inability to refinance our loans on favorable terms, could
adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations,
cash flow and ability to pay dividends on, and the market price
of, our stock. In addition, our credit facilities and senior
debt securities contain certain cross-default provisions, which
are triggered in the event that our other material indebtedness
is in default. These cross-default provisions may require us to
repay or restructure the credit facilities and the senior debt
securities in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in
default, which could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock.

Failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may
    adversely affect results of operations.

We seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by
using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate
cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These
agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the
counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these
arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in
reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court
could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable.
Hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. Failure
to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may
materially adversely affect our results of operations.


Conflicts of Interest Risks

Some of our directors and executive officers are involved
    in other real estate activities and investments and therefore,
    may have conflicts of interest with us.

Certain of our executive officers and directors own interests in
other real-estate related businesses and investments, including
retail development projects, office buildings and de minimis
holdings of the equity securities of public and private real
estate companies. Our executive officers’ continued
involvement in other real estate-related activities could divert
their attention from our day-to-day operations. Our executive
officers have entered into non-competition agreements with us
pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in any
activities, directly or indirectly, in respect of commercial
real estate, and not to make any investment in respect of any
industrial or retail real estate, other than through ownership
of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares of a public
company engaged in such activities or through the existing
investments referred to in this report. State law may limit our
ability to enforce these agreements. We believe that these
properties and activities generally do not directly compete with
any of our properties. However, it is possible that a property
in which an executive officer or director, or an affiliate of an
executive officer or director, has an interest may compete with
us in the future if we were to invest in a property similar in
type and in close proximity to that property. We will not
acquire any properties from our executive officers, directors or
their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by a
majority of the disinterested and independent (as defined by the
rules of the New York Stock Exchange) members of our board of
directors with respect to that transaction.

Our role as general partner of the operating partnership
    may conflict with the interests of our stockholders.

As the general partner of the operating partnership, we have
fiduciary obligations to the operating partnership’s
limited partners, the discharge of which may conflict with the
interests of our stockholders. In addition, those persons
holding limited partnership units will have the right to vote as
a class on certain amendments to the operating
partnership’s partnership agreement and individually to
approve certain amendments that would adversely affect their
rights. The limited partners may exercise these voting rights in
a manner that conflicts with the interests of our stockholders.
In addition, under the terms of the operating partnership’s
partnership agreement, holders of limited partnership units will
have certain approval rights with respect to certain
transactions that affect all stockholders but which they may not
exercise in a manner that reflects the interests of all
stockholders.

Risks Associated with Government Regulations

The costs of compliance with environmental laws and
    regulations and any related potential liability could exceed our
    budgets for these items.

Under various environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a
current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
liable for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of
certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products at,
on, under or in its property. The costs of removal or
remediation of such substances could be substantial. These laws
typically impose liability and clean-up responsibility without
regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the
presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may
have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered
by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the
clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the
owner or operator of a site for damages based on personal
injury, property damage, or other costs, including investigation
and clean-up costs, resulting from the environmental
contamination.

Environmental laws in some countries, including the U.S., also
require that owners or operators of buildings containing
asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, adequately
inform or train those who may come into contact with asbestos
and undertake special precautions, including removal or other
abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during
building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines
and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply
with these requirements and


may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or
operators for personal injury associated with exposure to
asbestos. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing
building materials.

In addition, some of our properties are leased or have been
leased, in part, to owners and operators of businesses that use,
store, or otherwise handle petroleum products or other hazardous
or toxic substances, creating a potential for the release of
such hazardous or toxic substances. Further, certain of our
properties are on, adjacent to or near other properties that
have contained or currently contain petroleum products or other
hazardous or toxic substances, or upon which others have
engaged, are engaged or may engage in activities that may
release such hazardous or toxic substances. From time to time,
we may acquire properties, or interests in properties, with
known adverse environmental conditions where we believe that the
environmental liabilities associated with these conditions are
quantifiable and that the acquisition will yield a superior
risk-adjusted return. In such an instance, we underwrite the
costs of environmental investigation, clean-up and monitoring
into the acquisition cost and obtain appropriate environmental
insurance for the property. Further, in connection with certain
divested properties, we have agreed to remain responsible for,
and to bear the cost of, remediating or monitoring certain
environmental conditions on the properties.

At the time of acquisition, we subject all of our properties to
a Phase I or similar environmental assessments by
independent environmental consultants and we may have additional
Phase II testing performed upon consultant’s
recommendation. These environmental assessments have not
revealed, and we are not aware of, any environmental liability
that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition or results of operations taken as a whole.
Nonetheless, it is possible that the assessments did not reveal
all environmental liabilities and that there are material
environmental liabilities unknown to us, or that known
environmental conditions may give rise to liabilities that are
greater than we anticipated. Further, our properties’
current environmental condition may be affected by customers,
the condition of land, operations in the vicinity of the
properties (such as releases from underground storage tanks), or
by unrelated third parties. If the costs of compliance with
existing or future environmental laws and regulations exceed our
budgets for these items, then our financial condition, results
of operations, cash flow, and ability to pay dividends on, and
the market price of, our stock could be adversely affected.

Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with
    Disabilities Act and other similar regulations could result in
    substantial costs.

Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, places of public
accommodation must meet certain federal requirements related to
access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could result
in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the
award of damages to private litigants. If we are required to
make unanticipated expenditures to comply with the Americans
with Disabilities Act, including removing access barriers, then
our cash flow and the amounts available for dividends to our
stockholders may be adversely affected. Our properties are also
subject to various federal, state and local regulatory
requirements, such as state and local fire and life-safety
requirements. We could incur fines or private damage awards if
we fail to comply with these requirements. While we believe that
our properties are currently in material compliance with these
regulatory requirements, the requirements may change or new
requirements may be imposed that could require significant
unanticipated expenditures by us that will affect our cash flow
and results of operations.

Federal Income Tax Risks

Our failure to qualify as a real estate investment trust
    would have serious adverse consequences to our
    stockholders.

We elected to be taxed as a real estate investment trust under
Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code
commencing with our taxable year ended December 31, 1997.
We currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a real estate
investment trust under the Internal Revenue Code and believe
that our current organization and method of operation comply
with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal
Revenue Code to enable us to continue to qualify as a real
estate investment trust. However, it is possible that we have
been organized or have operated in a manner that would not allow
us to qualify as a real estate


investment trust, or that our future operations could cause us
to fail to qualify. Qualification as a real estate investment
trust requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an
annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly
technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which
there are only limited judicial and administrative
interpretations, and involves the determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our
control. For example, in order to qualify as a real estate
investment trust, we must derive at least 95% of our gross
income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, we must
pay dividends to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90%
of our real estate investment trust taxable income (determined
without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding
capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a
quarterly basis. These provisions and the applicable treasury
regulations are more complicated in our case because we hold our
assets through the operating partnership. Legislation, new
regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions
could significantly change the tax laws with respect to
qualification as a real estate investment trust or the federal
income tax consequences of such qualification. However, we are
not aware of any pending tax legislation that would adversely
affect our ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust.

If we fail to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any
taxable year, then we will be required to pay federal income tax
(including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our
taxable income at regular corporate rates. Unless we are
entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would
be disqualified from treatment as a real estate investment trust
for the four taxable years following the year in which we lost
qualification. If we lose our real estate investment trust
status, then our net earnings available for investment or
distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for
each of the years involved. In addition, we would no longer be
required to make distributions to our stockholders.

Certain property transfers may generate prohibited
    transaction income, resulting in a penalty tax on gain
    attributable to the transaction.

From time to time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some
of our properties. Under the Internal Revenue Code, any gain
resulting from transfers of properties that we hold as inventory
or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of
business would be treated as income from a prohibited
transaction subject to a 100% penalty tax. Since we acquire
properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our
occasional transfers or disposals of property are treated as
prohibited transactions. However, whether property is held for
investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all
the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular
transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend that
certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are
prohibited transactions. While we believe that the Internal
Revenue Service would not prevail in any such dispute, if the
IRS were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of
property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be
required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us
from the prohibited transaction. In addition, income from a
prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to
satisfy the income tests for qualification as a real estate
investment trust for federal income tax purposes.

Risks Associated With Our Dependence on Key Personnel

We depend on the efforts of our executive officers. While we
believe that we could find suitable replacements for these key
personnel, the loss of their services or the limitation of their
availability could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations, cash flow and ability to pay dividends
on, and the market price of, our stock. We do not have
employment agreements with any of our executive officers.

Risks Associated with Our Disclosure Controls and Procedures
and Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Our business could be adversely impacted if we have
    deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or
    internal control over financial reporting.

The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. As part
of management’s on-going


review of our accounting policies and internal control over
financial reporting, on October 12, 2004, management
determined that there was a material weakness in our internal
control over financial reporting related to ground lease
depreciation. This weakness resulted in an understatement of
depreciation expense and resulted in a restatement of
depreciation expense for our results in previously issued
financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001 and for the quarters ended March 31, 2004 and
June 30, 2004. In connection with correcting this error,
management modified our system of internal control over
financial reporting to remediate the material weakness. As of
December 31, 2004, management had appropriately remediated
this issue and the material weakness no longer existed. While
management will continue to review the effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over
financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal
control over financial reporting will be effective in
accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Other
deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal
control over financial reporting which may occur in the future
could result in misstatements of our results of operations,
restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock
price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business,
reputation, results of operation, financial condition or
liquidity.

Risks Associated with Ownership of Our Stock

Limitations in our charter and bylaws could prevent a
    change in control.

Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws may delay, defer,
or prevent a change in control or other transaction that could
provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to
realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price for the
common stock. To maintain our qualification as a real estate
investment trust for federal income tax purposes, not more than
50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, actually or
constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the
Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) during the
last half of a taxable year after the first taxable year for
which a real estate investment trust election is made.
Furthermore, our common stock must be held by a minimum of 100
persons for at least 335 days of a 12-month taxable year
(or a proportionate part of a short tax year). In addition, if
we, or an owner of 10% or more of our stock, actually or
constructively owns 10% or more of one of our customers (or a
tenant of any partnership in which we are a partner), then the
rent received by us (either directly or through any such
partnership) from that tenant will not be qualifying income for
purposes of the real estate investment trust gross income tests
of the Internal Revenue Code. To help us maintain our
qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal
income tax purposes, we prohibit the ownership, actually or by
virtue of the constructive ownership provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code, by any single person, of more than 9.8% (by value
or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the
issued and outstanding shares of each of our common stock,
series L preferred stock and series M preferred stock.
We also prohibit the ownership, actually or constructively, of
any shares of our series D, E, F, H, I, J and K preferred
stock by any single person so that no such person, taking into
account all of our stock so owned by such person, including any
common stock or other series of preferred stock, may own in
excess of 9.8% of our issued and outstanding capital stock. We
refer to this limitation as the “ownership limit.”
Shares acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will
be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a designated
charitable beneficiary. Any person who acquires shares in
violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any
dividends on the shares or be entitled to vote the shares or
receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the shares in
excess of the lesser of the price paid for the shares or the
amount realized from the sale. A transfer of shares in violation
of the above limits may be void under certain circumstances. The
ownership limit may have the effect of delaying, deferring, or
preventing a change in control and, therefore, could adversely
affect our stockholders’ ability to realize a premium over
the then-prevailing market price for the shares of our common
stock in connection with such transaction.

Our charter authorizes us to issue additional shares of common
and preferred stock and to establish the preferences, rights and
other terms of any series or class of preferred stock that we
issue. Although our board of directors has no intention to do so
at the present time, it could establish a series or class of
preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying,
deferring, or preventing a transaction, including a change in
control, that might involve a premium price for the common stock
or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.


Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law also contain other
provisions that may impede various actions by stockholders
without approval of our board of directors, which in turn may
delay, defer, or prevent a transaction, including a change in
control. Those provisions in our charter and bylaws include:

Those provisions provided for under Maryland law include:

•

a two-thirds vote of stockholders is required to amend our
    charter; and

•

stockholders may only act by written consent with the unanimous
    approval of all stockholders entitled to vote on the matter in
    question.

In addition, our board could elect to adopt, without stockholder
approval, certain other provisions under Maryland law that may
impede a change in control.

The market value of our stock could be substantially
    affected by various factors.

As with other publicly traded securities, the trading price of
our stock will depend on many factors that are not within our
control and may change from time to time, including:

Other factors such as governmental regulatory action and changes
in tax laws could also have a significant impact on the future
trading price of our stock.

Earnings and cash dividends, asset value and market
    interest rates affect the price of our stock.

As a real estate investment trust the market value of our equity
securities, in general, is based primarily upon the
market’s perception of our growth potential and our current
and potential future earnings and cash dividends. Our equity
securities’ market value is based secondarily upon the
market value of our underlying real estate assets. For this
reason, shares of our stock may trade at prices that are higher
or lower than our net asset value per share. To the extent that
we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working
capital reserves, or other purposes, these retained funds, while
increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not


correspondingly increase the market price of our stock. Our
failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to
future earnings and cash dividends likely would adversely affect
the market price of our stock. Further, the distribution yield
on the stock (as a percentage of the price of the stock)
relative to market interest rates may also influence the price
of our stock. An increase in market interest rates might lead
prospective purchasers of our stock to expect a higher
distribution yield, which would adversely affect our
stock’s market price. Additionally, if the market price of
our stock declines significantly, then we might breach certain
covenants with respect to our debt obligations, which could
adversely affect our liquidity and ability to make future
acquisitions and our ability to pay dividends to our
stockholders.

If we issue additional securities, then the investment of
    existing stockholders will be diluted.

We have authority to issue shares of common stock or other
equity or debt securities, and to cause the operating
partnership to issue limited partnership units, in exchange for
property or otherwise. Existing stockholders have no preemptive
right to acquire any additional securities issued by the
operating partnership or us and any issuance of additional
equity securities could result in dilution of an existing
stockholder’s investment.

We could change our investment and financing policies
    without a vote of stockholders.

Subject to our current investment policy to maintain our
qualification as a real estate investment trust (unless a change
is approved by our board of directors under certain
circumstances), our board of directors determines our investment
and financing policies, our growth strategy and our debt,
capitalization, distribution and operating policies. Although
our board of directors does not presently intend to revise or
amend these strategies and policies, they may do so at any time
without a vote of stockholders. Any such changes may not serve
the interests of all stockholders and could adversely affect our
financial condition or results of operations, including our
ability to pay dividends to our stockholders.

Shares available for future sale could adversely affect
    the market price of our common stock.

The operating partnership and AMB Property II, L.P. had
4,746,104 common limited partnership units issued and
outstanding as of December 31, 2004, which may be exchanged
generally one year after their issuance on a one-for-one basis
into shares of our common stock. In the future, the operating
partnership or AMB Property II, L.P. may issue additional
limited partnership units, and we may issue shares of common
stock, in connection with the acquisition of properties or in
private placements. These shares of common stock and the shares
of common stock issuable upon exchange of limited partnership
units may be sold in the public securities markets over time,
pursuant to registration rights that we have granted, or may
grant in connection with future issuances, or pursuant to
Rule 144. In addition, common stock issued under our stock
option and incentive plans may also be sold in the market
pursuant to registration statements that we have filed or
pursuant to Rule 144. As of December 31, 2004, under
our stock option and incentive plans, we had
5,103,927 shares of common stock reserved and available for
issuance (including cancellations and forfeitures), had
outstanding options to purchase 10,220,631 shares of
common stock (net of cancellations and forfeitures, and
2,447,390 shares that we have issued upon the exercise of
options) and had 1,178,052 restricted shares of common stock
outstanding (net of 75,988 shares that have been
forfeited). Future sales of a substantial number of shares of
our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales
might occur could adversely affect the market price of our
common stock. Further, the existence of the operating
partnership’s limited partnership units and the shares of
our common stock reserved for issuance upon exchange of limited
partnership units and the exercise of options, and registration
rights referred to above, may adversely affect the terms upon
which we are able to obtain additional capital through the sale
of equity securities.

Item 7a.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
    Risk

Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in market
prices, interest rates and international exchange rates. Our
future earnings and cash flows are dependent upon prevailing
market rates. Accordingly, we manage our market risk by matching
projected cash inflows from operating, investing and financing


activities with projected cash outflows for debt service,
acquisitions, capital expenditures, distributions to
stockholders and unitholders, and other cash requirements. The
majority of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, which
minimizes the risk of fluctuating interest rates. Our exposure
to market risk includes interest rate fluctuations in connection
with our credit facilities and other variable rate borrowings
and our ability to incur more debt without stockholder approval,
thereby increasing our debt service obligations, which could
adversely affect our cash flows. As of December 31, 2004,
we had two outstanding interest rate swaps with aggregate
notional amount of $137.1 million (in U.S. dollars).
See Financial Instruments disclosure below.

The table below summarizes the market risks associated with our
fixed and variable rate debt outstanding before unamortized debt
premiums of $10.8 million as of December 31, 2004
(dollars in thousands):






Thereafter

Total

Fixed rate debt(1)

$

358,798

$

172,312

$

145,740

$

386,761

$

188,305

$

1,496,223

$

2,748,139

Average interest rate

7.0

%

6.6

%

6.9

%

6.7

%

4.8

%

7.2

%

6.6

%

Variable rate debt(2)

$

1,049

$

84,037

$

341,191

$

5,571

$

37,375

$

29,063

$

498,286

Average interest rate

3.6

%

2.6

%

2.0

%

2.8

%

2.7

%

1.9

%

2.1

%

Interest Payments

$

25,154

$

13,558

$

16,880

$

26,069

$

10,048

$

108,280

$

199,989

(1)

Represents 84.7% of all outstanding debt.

(2)

Represents 15.3% of all outstanding debt.

If market rates of interest on our variable rate debt increased
by 10%, then the increase in interest expense on the variable
rate debt would be $1.1 million annually. As of
December 31, 2004, the book value and the estimated fair
value of our total consolidated debt (both secured and
unsecured) was $3.4 billion based on our estimate of
current market interest rates.

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, variable rate debt
comprised 15.3% and 14.7%, respectively, of all our outstanding
debt. Variable rate debt was $498.3 million and
$378.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2004
and 2003. The increase is primarily due to higher outstanding
balances on our credit facilities. This increase in our
outstanding variable rate debt increases our risk associated
with unfavorable interest rate fluctuations.

Financial Instruments.

We record all derivatives on the
balance sheet at fair value as an asset or liability, with an
offset to accumulated other comprehensive income or income. For
revenues or expenses denominated in non-functional currencies,
we may use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign
currency exchange rate risk. Our derivative financial
instruments in effect at December 31, 2004 were two put
options (buy USD/sell MXN) hedging against adverse currency
exchange fluctuations of the Mexican peso against the
U.S. dollar and two interest rate swaps hedging cash flows
of our variable rate borrowings based on


Euribor (Europe) and Japanese TIBOR (Japan). The following table
summarizes our financial instruments as of December 31,
2004:

International Operations.

Our exposure to market risk
also includes foreign currency exchange rate risk. The
U.S. dollar is the functional currency for our subsidiaries
operating in the United States and Mexico. The functional
currency for our subsidiaries operating outside North America is
generally the local currency of the country in which the entity
is located, mitigating the effect of currency exchange gains and
losses. Our subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the
U.S. dollar translate their financial statements into
U.S. dollars. Assets and liabilities are translated at the
exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. We
translate income statement accounts using the average exchange
rate for the period and significant nonrecurring transactions
using the rate on the transaction date. Losses resulting from
the translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive
income as a separate component of stockholders’ equity and
totaled $0.4 million for the year ended December 31,
2004.

Our international subsidiaries may have transactions denominated
in currencies other than their functional currency. In these
instances, non-monetary assets and liabilities are reflected at
the historical exchange rate, monetary assets and liabilities
are remeasured at the exchange rate in effect at the end of the
period and income statement accounts are remeasured at the
average exchange rate for the period. For the year ended
December 31, 2004, gains from remeasurement included in our
statements of operations were $0.5 million.

We also record gains or losses in the income statement when a
transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency other
than the entity’s functional currency, is settled and the
functional currency cash flows realized are more or less than
expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the
transaction was initiated. We believe that these gains and
losses are immaterial.


Item 8.

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

See Item 15: “Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedule.”

Item 9.

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.

Controls and Procedures

Restatement of Depreciation Expense

On October 12, 2004, we announced a restatement of
depreciation expense for our prior period results relating to 39
buildings in our portfolio, 38 of which are located on-tarmac,
which is land owned by federal, state or local airport
authorities. As part of management’s on-going review of our
accounting policies and internal control over financial
reporting, management determined that we should have depreciated
certain of our investments in buildings that reside on land
subject to ground leases over the remaining terms of the ground
leases, rather than over 40 years, which is the period used
to depreciate buildings that we hold in fee simple. Management
determined that the cause for this depreciation error was that
there was no mechanism in place to segregate and apply
appropriate depreciable lives to assets subject to ground
leases. Our general ledger did not have a separate account
designation for assets subject to ground leases so these assets
were not segregated into a separate expected useful life
category for depreciation purposes.

Management also determined that the internal control deficiency
that resulted in this restatement represented a material
weakness, as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board’s Auditing Standard No. 2. The Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board has defined material weakness as
“a significant deficiency, or combination of significant
deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that
a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial
statements will not be prevented or detected.” Our
conclusion that the control deficiencies surrounding ground
lease depreciation constituted a material weakness means that
there was a more than remote likelihood of a material
misstatement in our financial statements for future periods. As
of December 31, 2004, management had appropriately
remediated this issue and the material weakness no longer
existed.

These assets are now depreciated over the lesser of
40 years or the contractual term of the underlying ground
lease. In connection with correcting the depreciation error,
management modified our system of internal control over
financial reporting to remediate this internal control
deficiency. Specifically, we implemented the following
remediation measures with respect to this material weakness:

Management restated our consolidated financial statements
contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Amendment
No. 1 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year
ended December 31, 2003 originally filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on March 11,
2004 and March 15, 2004, respectively, and our Quarterly
Reports on Forms 10-Q/A for the quarters ended
March 31, 2004 and


June 30, 2004, originally filed with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on May 7, 2004
and August 6, 2004, respectively. Management and the audit
committee of our board of directors discussed with our
independent registered public accounting firm,
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, and determined that this was the
proper approach.

Disclosure Controls and Procedures and Changes to Internal
Control over Financial Reporting

As required by Rule 13a-15(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, we carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of our management,
including our chief executive officer, president and chief
financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and
operation of our disclosure controls and procedures that were in
effect as of the end of the year covered by this report. Our
chief executive officer, president and chief financial officer
each concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were
effective at a reasonable assurance level as of
December 31, 2004. In light of the implementation of the
new remediation measures described above, the chief executive
officer, president and chief financial officer believe that
management appropriately modified our internal control over
financial reporting relating to ground lease depreciation and
remediated the material weakness as of December 31, 2004.
The changes in our internal control over financial reporting
discussed above materially affected our internal control over
financial reporting.

Except as stated above, there have been no other changes in our
internal control over financial reporting during our most recent
fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably
likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial
reporting.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal
control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or
under the supervision of, the Chief Executive Officer, President
and Chief Financial Officer, and effected by our board of
directors, management and other personnel, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
includes those policies and procedures that:

(1) Pertain to the maintenance of records that in
    reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
    involving our assets;

(2) Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
    recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being
    made only in accordance with authorizations of our management
    and directors; and

(3) Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
    timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition
    of our assets that could have a material effect on our
    consolidated financial statements.

Internal control over financial reporting cannot provide
absolute assurance of achieving financial reporting objectives
because of its inherent limitations. Internal control over
financial reporting is a process that involves human diligence
and compliance, and is subject to lapses in judgment and
breakdowns resulting from human failures. Internal control over
financial reporting also can be circumvented by collusion or
improper management override. Because of such limitations, there
is a risk that material misstatements may not be prevented or
detected on a timely basis by internal control over financial
reporting. However, these inherent limitations are known
features of the financial reporting process. Therefore, it is
possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though
not eliminate, this risk.

Our management has used the framework set forth in the report
entitled “Internal Control — Integrated
Framework” published by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission to evaluate the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
Based on our evaluation under the


framework in “Internal Control — Integrated
Framework,” our management has concluded that our internal
control over financial reporting was effective as of
December 31, 2004.

Our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our
internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004 has been audited by our independent
registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,
as stated in their report which appears herein.

Respectfully,

Hamid R. Moghadam, Chairman and CEO

W. Blake Baird, President and Director

Michael A. Coke, CFO and Executive Vice President

Item 9B.

Other Information

None.


PART III

Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

The information required by Items 10 through 14 will be
contained in a definitive proxy statement for our Annual Meeting
of Stockholders, which we anticipate will be filed no later than
120 days after the end of our fiscal year pursuant to
Regulation 14A and accordingly these items have been
omitted in accordance with General Instruction G(3) to
Form 10-K.

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule

(a)(1) and (2)

Financial Statements and Schedule:

The following consolidated financial information is included as
a separate section of this report on Form 10-K.

Page

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-1

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2004 and 2003

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

F-4

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the
    years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
    December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

F-6

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-7

Schedule III — Real Estate and Accumulated
    Depreciation

S-1

All other schedules are omitted since the required information
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
the schedule or because the information required is included in
the financial statements and notes thereto.


(a)(3)

Exhibits:





*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

(b)

Financial Statement Schedule:

See Item 15(a)(1) and (2) above.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, AMB Property
Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on
March 11, 2005.

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

By:

/s/

Hamid R. Moghadam

Hamid R. Moghadam

Chairman of the Board and

Chief Executive Officer

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that we, the undersigned
officers and directors of AMB Property Corporation, hereby
severally constitute Hamid R. Moghadam, W. Blake Baird, Michael
A. Coke and Tamra D. Browne, and each of them singly, our true
and lawful attorneys with full power to them, and each of them
singly, to sign for us and in our names in the capacities
indicated below, the Form 10-K filed herewith and any and
all amendments to said Form 10-K, and generally to do all
such things in our names and in our capacities as officers and
directors to enable AMB Property Corporation to comply with the
provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and all
requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
ratifying and confirming our signatures as they may be signed by
our said attorneys, or any of them, to said Form 10-K and
any and all amendments thereto.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
on behalf of AMB Property Corporation and in the capacities and
on the dates indicated.



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

AMB Property Corporation:

We have completed an integrated audit of AMB Property
Corporation’s 2004 consolidated financial statements and of
its internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2004 and audits of its 2003 and 2002
consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are
presented below.

Consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
the index appearing under Item 15(a)(1) present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of AMB Property
Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2004 and
2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2004 in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition,
in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the
index appearing under Item 15(a)(2) presents fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read
in conjunction with the related consolidated financial
statements. These financial statements and the financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial
statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 150,

Accounting for Certain
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities
and Equity,

in 2003.

Internal control over financial reporting

Also, in our opinion, management’s assessment, included in
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting appearing under Item 9A, that the Company
maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2004 based on criteria established in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects,
based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004,
based on criteria established in

Internal Control —
Integrated Framework

issued by the COSO. The Company’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on management’s
assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We
conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An
audit of internal control over financial reporting includes
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, evaluating management’s assessment, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we consider
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit
provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.

F-1

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Francisco, California

February 28, 2005

F-2

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

F-3

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

F-4

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

For the Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

F-5

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the Years Ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
consolidated financial statements.

F-6

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 2004 and 2003

1.

Organization and Formation of the Company

AMB Property Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the
“Company”), commenced operations as a fully integrated
real estate company effective with the completion of its initial
public offering on November 26, 1997. The Company elected
to be taxed as a real estate investment trust (“REIT”)
under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (the “Code”), commencing with its taxable year
ended December 31, 1997, and believes its current
organization and method of operation will enable it to maintain
its status as a REIT. The Company, through its controlling
interest in its subsidiary, AMB Property, L.P., a Delaware
limited partnership (the “Operating Partnership”), is
engaged in the acquisition, development and operation of
primarily industrial properties in key distribution markets
throughout North America, Europe and Asia. Unless the context
otherwise requires, the “Company” means AMB Property
Corporation, the Operating Partnership and their other
controlled subsidiaries.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company owned an approximate
94.6% general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership,
excluding preferred units. The remaining 5.4% limited
partnership interests are owned by non-affiliated investors and
certain current and former directors and officers of the
Company. Certain properties are owned through limited
partnerships, limited liability companies and other entities.
The ownership of such properties through such entities does not
materially affect the Company’s overall ownership interests
in the properties. As the sole general partner of the Operating
Partnership, the Company has full, exclusive and complete
responsibility and discretion in the day-to-day management and
control of the Operating Partnership. Net operating results of
the Operating Partnership are allocated after preferred unit
distributions based on the respective partners’ ownership
interests.

Through the Operating Partnership, the Company enters into
co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. These
co-investment joint ventures provide the Company with an
additional source of capital and income. As of December 31,
2004, the Company had investments in seven co-investment joint
ventures, which are consolidated for financial reporting
purposes.

AMB Capital Partners, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
(“AMB Capital Partners”), provides real estate
investment services to clients on a fee basis. Headlands Realty
Corporation, a Maryland corporation, conducts a variety of
businesses that include development projects available for sale
to third parties and incremental income programs. IMD Holding
Corporation, a Delaware corporation, also conducts a variety of
businesses that include development projects available for sale
to third parties. AMB Capital Partners and Headlands Realty
Corporation are wholly-owned direct subsidiaries of the
Operating Partnership.

Any references to the number of buildings, square footage,
customers and occupancy data in the financial statement
footnotes are unaudited.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company owned and operated
(exclusive of properties that the Company managed for third
parties) 984 industrial buildings and four retail and other
properties, aggregating approximately 90.8 million rentable
square feet, located in 33 markets throughout the United States
and in France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the Netherlands. The
Company’s strategy is to become a leading provider of
distribution properties in supply-constrained submarkets located
near key international passenger and cargo airports, highway
systems and seaports in major metropolitan areas of North
America, Europe and Asia. These markets are generally tied to
global trade. As of December 31, 2004, the Company’s
industrial buildings, principally warehouse distribution
buildings, encompassed approximately 90.3 million rentable
square feet and were 94.8% leased. As of December 31, 2004,
the Company’s retail centers, principally grocer-anchored
community shopping centers, and other properties encompassed
approximately 0.5 million rentable square feet and were
71.4% leased.

F-7

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2004, through AMB Capital Partners, the
Company also managed, but did not have an ownership interest in,
industrial buildings, totaling approximately 0.4 million
rentable square feet. In addition, the Company had investments
in operating industrial buildings, totaling approximately
10.3 million rentable square feet, through investments in
unconsolidated joint ventures. As of December 31, 2004, the
Company also had investments in industrial development projects
throughout the United States and in Japan, Mexico, the
Netherlands, Singapore and Spain, some of which are part of our
development-for-sale or contribution program, totaling
approximately 9.2 million square feet. Some of the
development projects in the U.S. were available for sale.

2.

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation.

These consolidated financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(“GAAP”). The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the financial position, results of operations
and cash flows of the Company, its wholly-owned qualified REIT
and taxable REIT subsidiaries, the Operating Partnership and
joint ventures, in which the Company has a controlling interest.
Third-party equity interests in the Operating Partnership and
joint ventures are reflected as minority interests in the
consolidated financial statements. The Company also has
non-controlling partnership interests in unconsolidated real
estate joint ventures, which are accounted for under the equity
method. All significant intercompany amounts have been
eliminated.

Use of Estimates.

The preparation of financial statements
in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

Reclassifications.

Certain items in the consolidated
financial statements for prior periods have been reclassified to
conform to current classifications.

Investments in Real Estate.

Investments in real estate
and leasehold interests are stated at cost unless circumstances
indicate that cost cannot be recovered, in which case, the
carrying value of the property is reduced to estimated fair
value. The Company also determines the impact of above or
below-market leases, in-place leases and lease origination costs
for all new acquisitions, and records intangible assets or
liabilities accordingly. Carrying values for financial reporting
purposes are reviewed for impairment on a property-by-property
basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of a property may not be recoverable.
Impairment is recognized when estimated expected future cash
flows (undiscounted and before interest charges) are less than
the carrying value of the property. The estimation of expected
future net cash flows is inherently uncertain and relies on
assumptions regarding current and future economics and market
conditions and the availability of capital. If impairment
analysis assumptions change, then an adjustment to the carrying
value of the Company’s long-lived assets could occur in the
future period in which the assumptions change. To the extent
that a property is impaired, the excess of the carrying amount
of the property over its estimated fair value is charged to
earnings. As a result of leasing activity and the recent
economic environment, the Company re-evaluated the carrying
value of its investments and recorded an impairment charge of
$5.3 million and $2.9 million in 2003 and 2002,
respectively, on certain of its investments. Also during the
year ended December 31, 2003, the Company recorded a
reduction of depreciation expense of $2.1 million to
reflect the recovery, through the settlement of a lawsuit, of
capital expenditures paid in prior years. The Company believes
that there are no impairments of the carrying values of its
investments in real estate as of December 31, 2004.

Depreciation and amortization are calculated using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the real
estate investments. Investments which are located on-tarmac,
which is land owned by federal, state or local airport
authorities, and subject to ground leases are depreciated over
the lesser of 40 years or the

F-8

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

contractual term of the underlying ground lease. The estimated
lives and components of depreciation and amortization expense
for the years ended December 31 are as follows (dollars in
thousands):

The cost of buildings and improvements includes the purchase
price of the property or interest in property, including legal
fees and acquisition costs. Project costs directly associated
with the development and construction of a real estate project,
which include interest and property taxes, are capitalized as
construction in progress. Capitalized interest related to
construction projects for the years ended December 31,
2004, 2003 and 2002 was $18.7 million, $8.5 million
and $6.9 million, respectively.

Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to
operations as incurred. Maintenance expenditures include
painting and repair costs. The Company expenses costs as
incurred and does not accrue in advance of planned major
maintenance activities. Significant renovations or betterments
that extend the economic useful life of assets are capitalized
and include parking lot, HVAC and roof replacement costs.

Investments in Consolidated and Unconsolidated Joint
Ventures.

Minority interests represent the limited
partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and interests
held by certain third parties in several real estate joint
ventures, which own properties aggregating approximately
44.1 million square feet, which are consolidated for
financial reporting purposes. Such investments are consolidated
because the Company exercises significant control over major
operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of
property managers, asset management, investment activity and
changes in financing. When the Company contributes properties to
its joint ventures, it recognizes a gain on the contributed
properties acquired by the third-party co-investors.

In May 2003, the FASB issued SFAS No. 150,

Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with
Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity

(“SFAS 150”). This Statement establishes
standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain
financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities
and equity. It requires that an issuer classify a financial
instrument that is within its scope as a liability (or an asset
in some circumstances). SFAS 150 was effective beginning in
the third quarter of 2003, however, the FASB deferred the
implementation of SFAS 150 as it applied to certain
minority interests in finite-lived entities indefinitely. The
disclosure requirements for certain minority interests in
finite-lived entities still apply. The Company adopted the
requirements of SFAS 150 in the third quarter of 2003, and,
considering the aforementioned

F-9

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

deferral, there was no impact on the Company’s financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. However, the
minority interests associated with certain of the Company’s
consolidated joint ventures, those that have finite lives under
the terms of the partnership agreements, represent mandatorily
redeemable interests as defined in SFAS 150. As of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, the aggregate book value of
these minority interests in the accompanying consolidated
balance sheet was $828.6 million and $658.7 million,
respectively, and the Company believes that the aggregate
settlement value of these interests was approximately
$997.6 million and $729.2 million, respectively. This
amount is based on the estimated liquidation values of the
assets and liabilities and the resulting proceeds that the
Company would distribute to its joint venture partners upon
dissolution, as required under the terms of the respective
partnership agreements. Subsequent changes to the estimated fair
values of the assets and liabilities of the consolidated joint
ventures will affect the Company’s estimate of the
aggregate settlement value. The partnership agreements do not
limit the amount that the minority partners would be entitled to
in the event of liquidation of the assets and liabilities and
dissolution of the respective partnerships.

The Company holds interests in both consolidated and
unconsolidated joint ventures. The Company’s joint venture
investments do not meet the variable interest entity criteria
under FASB Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of
Variable Interest Entities.

Therefore, the Company
determines consolidation based on standards set forth in EITF
96-16,

Investor’s Accounting for an Investee When the
Investor Has a Majority of the Voting Interest but the Minority
Shareholder or Shareholders Have Certain Approval or Veto
Rights

, and Statement of Position 78-9,

Accounting
for Investments in Real Estate Ventures.

Based on the
guidance set forth in these pronouncements, the Company
consolidates certain joint venture investments because it
exercises significant control over major operating decisions,
such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers,
asset management, investment activity and changes in financing.
For joint ventures where the Company does not exercise
significant control over major operating and management
decisions, but where it has significant influence, it uses the
equity method of accounting and does not consolidate the joint
venture for financial reporting purposes.

In December 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities

(“FIN 46R”) and the Company adopted the
consolidation requirements of FIN 46R in the first quarter
of 2004. FIN 46R requires a variable interest entity to be
consolidated by a company if that company is subject to a
majority of the risk of loss from the variable interest
entity’s activities or entitled to receive a majority of
the entity’s residual returns or both. FIN 46R
requires disclosures about variable interest entities that a
company is not required to consolidate, but in which it has a
significant variable interest. The consolidation requirements
apply to existing entities in the first reporting period that
ended after March 15, 2004. The Company does not believe
that any of its consolidated or unconsolidated joint ventures
are variable interest entities under the provisions of
FIN 46R.

Cash and Cash Equivalents.

Cash and cash equivalents
include cash held in financial institutions and other highly
liquid short-term investments with original maturities of three
months or less.

Restricted Cash.

Restricted cash includes cash held in
escrow in connection with property purchases, Section 1031
exchange accounts and debt or real estate tax payments.

Mortgages Receivable.

Through a wholly-owned subsidiary,
the Company holds a mortgage loan receivable of
$12.9 million on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint
venture. The Company also holds a short-term mortgage on a sold
property totaling $0.8 million at December 31, 2004.
The book value of the mortgages approximates fair value.

Accounts Receivable.

Accounts receivable includes all
current accounts receivable, net of allowances, other accruals
and deferred rent receivable of $63.2 million and
$50.4 million as of December 31, 2004 and 2003,
respectively. The Company regularly reviews the credit
worthiness of its customers and adjusts its

F-10

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

allowance for doubtful accounts, straight-line rent receivable
balance and tenant improvement and leasing costs amortization
accordingly.

Concentration of Credit Risk.

Other real estate companies
compete with the Company in its real estate markets. This
results in competition for customers to occupy space. The
existence of competing properties could have a material impact
on the Company’s ability to lease space and on the amount
of rent received. As of December 31, 2004, the Company did
not have any single tenant that accounted for greater than 3.4%
of annualized base rental revenues.

Deferred Financing Costs.

Costs incurred in connection
with financings are capitalized and amortized to interest
expense using the effective-interest method over the term of the
related loan. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, deferred
financing costs were $28.3 million and $18.6 million,
respectively, net of accumulated amortization. Such amounts are
included in other assets on the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.

Financial Instruments.

SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and for Hedging
Activities,

provides comprehensive guidelines for the
recognition and measurement of derivatives and hedging
activities and, specifically, requires all derivatives to be
recorded on the balance sheet at fair value as an asset or
liability, with an offset to accumulated other comprehensive
income or income. For revenues or expenses denominated in
nonfunctional currencies, the Company may use derivative
financial instruments to manage foreign currency exchange rate
risk. The Company’s derivative financial instruments in
effect at December 31, 2004 included two put options (buy
USD/sell MXN) hedging against adverse currency exchange
fluctuations of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar.
Adjustments to the fair value of these instruments for the year
ended December 31, 2004 were immaterial. The Company also
held two interest rate swaps hedging cash flows of our variable
rate borrowings based on Euribor (Europe) and Japanese TIBOR
(Japan). Adjustments to the fair value of these instruments for
the year ended December 31, 2004 resulted in a loss of
$1.2 million. This loss is included in accounts payable and
other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet and
accumulated other comprehensive loss in the consolidated
statements of stockholders’ equity.

Debt.

The Company’s debt includes both fixed and
variable rate secured debt, unsecured fixed rate debt, unsecured
variable rate debt and credit facilities. Based on borrowing
rates available to the Company at December 31, 2004, the
book value and the estimated fair value of the total debt (both
secured and unsecured) was $3.3 billion and
$3.4 billion, respectively. The carrying value of the
variable rate debt approximates fair value.

Debt Premiums.

Debt premiums represent the excess of the
fair value of debt over the principal value of debt assumed in
connection with the Company’s initial public offering and
subsequent property acquisitions. The debt premiums are being
amortized as an offset to interest expense over the term of the
related debt instrument using the effective-interest method. As
of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the net unamortized debt
premium was $10.8 million for each year and are included as
a component of secured debt on the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets.

Rental Revenues and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.

The
Company, as a lessor, retains substantially all of the benefits
and risks of ownership of the properties and accounts for its
leases as operating leases. Rental income is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the term of the leases. Reimbursements
from customers for real estate taxes and other recoverable
operating expenses are recognized as revenue in the period the
applicable expenses are incurred. The Company also records lease
termination fees when a customer terminates its lease by
executing a definitive termination agreement with the Company,
vacates the premises and the payment of the termination fee is
not subject to any conditions that must be met before the fee is
due to the Company. In addition, the Company nets its allowance
for doubtful accounts against rental income for financial
reporting purposes. Such amounts totaled $1.8 million,
$5.6 million and $1.8 million for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.

F-11

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

Private Capital Income.

Private capital income consists
primarily of acquisition and development fees, asset management
fees and priority distributions earned by AMB Capital Partners
from joint ventures and clients. Private capital income also
includes promoted interests and incentive fees from the
Operating Partnership’s co-investment joint ventures.

Stock-Based Compensation Expense.

In 2002, the Company
adopted the expense recognition provisions of
SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.

The Company values stock options using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model and recognizes this value as
an expense over the vesting periods. Under this standard,
recognition of expense for stock options is applied to all
options granted after the beginning of the year of adoption.
Under SFAS No. 123, related stock option expense was
$4.0 million, $2.4 million and $0.9 million in
2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Additionally, the Company
awards restricted stock and recognizes this value as an expense
over the vesting periods. Related restricted stock compensation
expense was $6.4 million, $5.7 million and
$4.3 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
expense is included in general and administrative expenses in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The
Company adopted SFAS No. 123 prospectively and the
2002 and 2003 expense relates only to stock options granted in
2002 and subsequent periods.

Had compensation cost for the Company’s stock-based
compensation plans been determined based on the fair value at
the grant dates for awards prior to 2002 consistent with the
method of SFAS No. 123, the Company’s pro forma
net income available to common stockholders would have been
(dollars in thousands):




Reduction to net income

$

1,100

$

1,613

$

2,402

Adjusted earnings per common share:

Basic

$

1.43

$

1.42

$

1.33

Diluted

$

1.37

$

1.39

$

1.30

Interest and Other Income.

Interest and other income
consists primarily of interest income from mortgages receivable
and on cash and cash equivalents.

Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate Interests.

When
the Company disposes its real estate entities’ interests,
gains reported from the sale of these interests represent
either: (i) the sale of partial interests in consolidated
co-investment joint ventures to third-party investors for cash
or (ii) the sale of partial interests in properties to
unconsolidated co-investment joint ventures with third-party
investors for cash.

Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate.

Gains and losses
are recognized using the full accrual method. Gains related to
transactions which do not meet the requirements of the full
accrual method of accounting are deferred and recognized when
the full accrual method of accounting criteria are met.

Discontinued Operations.

The Company reported real estate
dispositions as discontinued operations separately as prescribed
under the provisions of SFAS No. 144,

Accounting
for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.

The
Company separately reports as discontinued operations the
historical operating results attributable to operating
properties sold and held for disposition and the applicable gain
or loss on the disposition of the properties. The consolidated
statements of operations for prior periods are also adjusted to
conform with this classification. There is no impact on the
Company’s previously reported consolidated financial
position, net income or cash flows.

International Operations.

The U.S. dollar is the
functional currency for the Company’s subsidiaries
operating in the United States and Mexico. The functional
currency for the Company’s subsidiaries operating outside
North America is generally the local currency of the country in
which the entity is located, mitigating the effect of currency
exchange gains and losses. The Company’s subsidiaries whose
functional currency is not the U.S. dollar translate their
financial statements into U.S. dollars. Assets and
liabilities are translated at the

F-12

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date. The
Company translates income statement accounts using the average
exchange rate for the period and significant nonrecurring
transactions using the rate on the transaction date. For the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, gains
(losses) resulting from the translation were
($0.4) million, $0.7 million and $0.1 million,
respectively. These gains (losses) are included in accumulated
other comprehensive income as a separate component of
stockholders’ equity.

The Company’s international subsidiaries may have
transactions denominated in currencies other than their
functional currency. In these instances, non-monetary assets and
liabilities are reflected at the historical exchange rate,
monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at the exchange
rate in effect at the end of the period and income statement
accounts are remeasured at the average exchange rate for the
period. Gains (losses) from remeasurement were
$0.5 million, ($0.1) million and $0.2 million for
the years ended 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These gains
(losses) are included in the consolidated statements of
operations.

The Company also records gains or losses in the income statement
when a transaction with a third party, denominated in a currency
other than the entity’s functional currency, is settled and
the functional currency cash flows realized are more or less
than expected based upon the exchange rate in effect when the
transaction was initiated. These gains and losses are immaterial.

Share-Based Payment.

In December 2004, the FASB issued
SFAS No. 123R,

Share-Based Payment

(“SFAS 123R”). This Statement is a revision
of FASB Statement No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation.

This Statement establishes standards for the
accounting for transactions in which an entity exchanges its
equity instruments for goods or services. It also addresses
transactions in which an entity incurs liabilities in exchange
for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the
entity’s equity instruments or that may be settled by the
issuance of those equity instruments. This Statement focuses
primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity
obtains employee services in share-based payment transactions.
SFAS 123R is effective for public companies for interim and
annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption
of SFAS 123R will require the unamortized portion of any
options issued prior to 2002 to be amortized over the remaining
life of those options. The adoption of SFAS 123R will not
impact the Company’s financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.

3.

Real Estate Acquisition and Development Activity

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
acquired 64 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
7.6 million square feet for a total expected investment of
$695.2 million, of which the Company acquired 48 industrial
buildings, aggregating approximately 4.2 million square
feet through four of the Company’s co-investment joint
ventures, for a total expected investment of
$261.0 million. During 2003, the Company acquired 82
industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 6.5 million
square feet for a total expected investment of
$533.9 million, of which the Company acquired 43 industrial
buildings, aggregating approximately 3.7 million square
feet through two of the Company’s co-investment joint
ventures, for a total expected investment of $238.3 million.

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
initiated 14 new industrial development projects in North
America with a total expected investment of $235.4 million,
aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet; four new
industrial development projects in Japan and Singapore with a
total expected investment of $368.8 million, aggregating
approximately 2.7 million square feet; and one new
industrial development in Europe with a total expected
investment of $44.3 million, aggregating approximately
0.3 million square feet. During 2003, the Company initiated
15 new industrial development projects in North America with a
total expected investment of $200.3 million, aggregating
approximately 4.5 million square feet, and one new
industrial development project in Europe with a total expected
investment of $26.1 million, aggregating approximately
0.4 million square feet.

F-13

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
completed seven industrial buildings with a total expected
investment of $88.9 million, aggregating approximately
2.1 million square feet. During 2003, the Company completed
14 industrial buildings with a total expected investment of
$105.7 million, aggregating approximately 1.6 million
square feet.

As of December 31, 2004, the Company had in its development
pipeline: (1) 30 industrial projects, which will total
approximately 8.9 million square feet and will have an
aggregate estimated investment of $828.7 million upon
completion, of which four industrial projects with a total of
1.2 million square feet and an aggregate estimated
investment of $55.0 million upon completion are held in
unconsolidated joint ventures, and (2) four development
projects available for sale or contribution, which will total
approximately 0.6 million square feet and will have an
aggregate estimated investment of $29.2 million upon
completion. As of December 31, 2004, the Company and its
Development Alliance Partners had funded an aggregate of
$515.2 million and needed to fund an estimated additional
$342.7 million in order to complete current and planned
projects. The Company’s development pipeline currently
includes projects expected to be completed through the first
quarter of 2008. Significant land acquisitions for the year
ended December 31, 2004 included the purchase of
640 acres of land for industrial warehouse developments in
various U.S. markets and Mexico City for $68.3 million.

4.

Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate Interests, Development
    Sales and Discontinued Operations

Gains from Dispositions of Real Estate Interests.

On
December 31, 2004, the Company contributed
$71.5 million in operating properties, consisting of eight
industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 1.3 million
square feet, to its newly formed unconsolidated co-investment
joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC. The Company recognized a
total gain of $7.2 million on the contribution,
representing the partial sale of the Company’s interests in
the contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors
for cash. Of this amount, the Company recognized
$2.0 million in development profits. This amount is
classified under development profits, net of taxes on the
consolidated statement of operations.

On February 19, 2003, the Company contributed
$94.0 million in operating properties, consisting of 24
industrial buildings, aggregating approximately 2.4 million
square feet, to its newly formed unconsolidated joint venture,
Industrial Fund I, LLC. The Company recognized a gain of
$7.4 million on the contribution, representing the partial
sale of the Company’s interests in the contributed
properties acquired by the third-party investors for cash.

In 2002, the Company divested itself of two industrial buildings
and one retail center, aggregating approximately
0.8 million square feet, for an aggregate price of
$50.6 million, with a resulting loss of $0.8 million.
The Company accounted for the gain in continuing operations
under the transition provisions of SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
Assets

(“SFAS No. 144”). In June 2002,
the Company also contributed $76.9 million in operating
properties, consisting of 15 industrial buildings,
aggregating approximately 1.9 million square feet, to its
consolidated co-investment joint venture, AMB-SGP, L.P. The
Company recognized a gain of $3.3 million, representing the
partial sale of the Company’s interests in the properties
acquired by the third-party investors for cash.

Development Sales and Contributions.

During 2004, the
Company sold seven land parcels and six development projects as
part of our development-for-sale program, aggregating
approximately 0.3 million square feet for an aggregate
price of $40.4 million, resulting in an after-tax gain of
$6.5 million. During 2004, the Company also contributed one
completed development project into a newly formed unconsolidated
joint venture, AMB-SGP Mexico, LLC. The Company recognized an
after-tax gain of $2.0 million, representing the partial
sale of the Company’s interest in the contributed property
acquired by the third-party co-investor for cash.

F-14

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

During 2003, the Company sold seven development-for-sale and
other projects, aggregating approximately 0.5 million
square feet, for an aggregate price of $74.8 million,
resulting in an after-tax gain of $14.4 million.

During 2002, the Company sold seven development-for-sale
projects, aggregating approximately 0.2 million square
feet, for an aggregate price of $17.0 million, resulting in
an after-tax gain of $1.2 million.

Discontinued Operations.

The Company reported its
property divestitures as discontinued operations separately as
prescribed under the provisions of SFAS No. 144.
Beginning in 2002, SFAS No. 144 requires the Company
to separately report as discontinued operations the historical
operating results attributable to operating properties sold and
held for disposition and the applicable gain or loss on the
disposition of the properties. Although the application of
SFAS No. 144 may affect the presentation of the
Company’s results of operations for the periods that it has
already reported in filings with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, there will be no effect on its previously
reported financial position, net income or cash flows.

During 2004, the Company divested itself of 21 industrial
buildings, two retail centers and one office building,
aggregating approximately 3.1 million square feet, for an
aggregate price of $200.3 million, with a resulting net
gain of $42.0 million.

During 2003, the Company divested itself of 24 industrial
buildings and two retail centers, aggregating approximately
2.8 million square feet, for an aggregate price of
$272.3 million, with a resulting net gain of
$42.9 million.

During 2002, the Company divested itself of 56 industrial
buildings, one retail center and an undeveloped land parcel,
aggregating approximately 4.9 million square feet, for an
aggregate price of $193.4 million, with a resulting net
gain of $10.6 million. In November 2002, the Company’s
joint venture partner in AMB Partners II, L.P.
(“Partners II”) increased its ownership from 50%
to 80% by acquiring 30% of the Operating Partnership’s
interest in Partners II. The Company recognized a gain of
$6.3 million on the sale of the Operating
Partnership’s 30% interest.

Properties Held for Divestiture.

As of December 31,
2004, the Company had decided to divest itself of 25 industrial
buildings and one undeveloped land parcel with a net book value
of $87.3 million. The properties either are not in the
Company’s core markets or do not meet its current strategic
objectives. The divestitures of the properties are subject to
negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions.
Properties held for divestiture are stated at the lower of cost
or estimated fair value less costs to sell. Depreciation on
properties held for divestiture is discontinued at the time the
asset is held for divestiture.

The following summarizes the condensed results of operations of
the properties held for divestiture and sold under
SFAS No. 144 for the years ended December 31
(dollars in thousands):

F-15

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, assets and liabilities
attributable to properties held for divestiture under the
provisions of SFAS No. 144 consisted of the following
(dollars in thousands):



Accounts receivable, net

$

1,707

$

—

Other assets

$


$

—

Secured debt

$

—

$

—

Accounts payable and other liabilities

$

1,731

$


5.

Mortgages Receivable

Through a wholly-owned subsidiary, the Company holds a mortgage
loan receivable on AMB Pier One, LLC, an unconsolidated joint
venture. As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the outstanding
balance on the note was $12.9 million and
$13.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2004,
the Company also held a short-term mortgage on a sold property.
The Company’s mortgages receivable at December 31,
2004 and 2003 consisted of the following:

Ownership

Mortgage Receivable

Market

Maturity



Rate

Percentage(1)

1. Pier 1

SF Bay Area

May 2026

$

12,938

$

13,042

13.0

%


%

2. Platinum Distribution Center

No. New Jersey

February 2004

—

19,500

6.0

%


%

3. Platinum Distribution Center

No. New Jersey

November 2006


1,300

12.0

%


%

4. North Bay Distribution Center/ BAB

San Francisco Bay Area

December 2004

—

7,040

5.5

%


%

5. North Bay Distribution Center/ Corovan

San Francisco Bay Area

December 2004

—

2,263

7.3

%


%

Total Mortgages Receivable

$

13,738

$

43,145

(1)

Represents the Company’s ownership percentage in the
    mortgage investment.

F-16

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

6.

Debt

As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, debt consisted of the
following (dollars in thousands):

Secured debt generally requires monthly principal and interest
payments. The secured debt is secured by deeds of trust or
mortgages on certain properties and is generally non-recourse.
As of December 31, 2004 and 2003, the total gross
investment book value of those properties securing the debt was
$3.3 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, including
$2.4 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively, in
consolidated joint ventures. As of December 31, 2004,
$1.8 billion of the secured debt obligations bear interest
at fixed rates with a weighted average interest rate of 6.5%
while the remaining $96.6 million bear interest at variable
rates (with a weighted average interest rate of 2.5%). The
secured debt has various covenants. Management believes that the
Company and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with
their financial covenants as of December 31, 2004 and 2003.
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had certain
non-recourse, secured loans, some of which are
cross-collateralized by multiple properties.

As of December 31, 2004, the Operating Partnership had
issued an aggregate of $1.0 billion in unsecured senior
debt securities, which bore a weighted average interest rate of
6.6% and had an average term of 4.6 years. These unsecured
senior debt securities include $100.0 million in notes due
in 2015, which are putable and callable in September 2005,
$400.0 million of medium-term notes, which were issued
under the Operating Partnership’s 2000 medium-term note
program, and $225.0 million of medium-term notes, which
were issued under the Operating Partnership’s 2002
medium-term note program. As of December 31, 2004, the
Operating Partnership’s 2002 medium-term note program had a
remaining capacity of $175.0 million. The Operating
Partnership intends to continue to issue medium-term notes,
guaranteed by the Company, under its 2002 program from time to
time and as market conditions permit. The unsecured senior debt
securities are subject to various covenants. Management believes
that the Company and the Operating Partnership were in
compliance with their financial covenants as of
December 31, 2004.

On March 16, 2004, the Operating Partnership issued
$100.0 million aggregate principal amount of medium-term
notes under its 2002 program. The Company guaranteed the
principal amount and interest on the notes, which mature on
March 1, 2009, and bear interest at 3.5% per annum.

F-17

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

On June 1, 2004, the Operating Partnership completed the
early renewal of its senior unsecured revolving line of credit
in the amount of $500.0 million. The Company remains a
guarantor of the Operating Partnership’s obligations under
the credit facility. The three-year credit facility includes a
multi-currency component under which up to $250.0 million
can be drawn in Yen, Euros or British Pounds Sterling. The line,
which matures in June 2007 and carries a one-year extension
option, can be increased up to $700.0 million upon certain
conditions, and replaces the Operating Partnership’s
previous $500.0 million credit facility that was to mature
in December 2005. The rate on the borrowings is generally LIBOR
plus a margin, based on the Operating Partnership’s
long-term debt rating, which is 60 basis points, with an
annual facility fee of 20 basis points, based on the
current credit rating of the Operating Partnership’s
long-term debt. The Operating Partnership uses its unsecured
credit facility principally for acquisitions, funding
development activity and general working capital requirements.
The total amount available under the credit facility fluctuates
based upon the borrowing base, as defined in the agreement
governing the credit facility, which is generally based upon the
value of the Company’s unencumbered properties. As of
December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance on the credit
facility was $235.1 million and the remaining amount
available was $251.0 million, net of outstanding letters of
credit of $13.9 million (excluding the additional
$200.0 million of potential additional capacity). The
outstanding balance included borrowings denominated in Euros and
Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on
December 31, 2004, would equal approximately
$114.6 million and $92.5 million in U.S. dollars,
respectively. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had an
additional outstanding balance of $27.8 million on other
credit facilities. The revolving credit facility contains
customary and other affirmative covenants, including compliance
with financial reporting requirements and maintenance of
specified financial ratios and negative covenants, including
limitations on the incurrence of liens and limitations on
mergers or consolidations. Management believes that the Company
and the Operating Partnership were in compliance with their
financial covenants at December 31, 2004.

On June 29, 2004, AMB Japan Finance Y.K., a subsidiary of
the Operating Partnership, entered into an unsecured revolving
credit agreement providing for loans or letters of credit in a
maximum principal amount outstanding at any time of up to
24 billion Yen, which, using the exchange rate in effect on
December 31, 2004, equaled approximately
$233.8 million U.S. dollars. The Company, along with
the Operating Partnership, guarantee the obligations of AMB
Japan Finance Y.K. under the revolving credit facility, as well
as the obligations of any other entity in which the Operating
Partnership directly or indirectly owns an ownership interest,
and which is selected from time to time to be a borrower under
and pursuant to the revolving credit agreement. The borrowers
intend to use the proceeds from the facility to fund the
acquisition and development of properties and for other real
estate purposes in Japan. Generally, borrowers under the
revolving credit facility have the option to secure all or a
portion of the borrowings under the revolving credit facility
with certain real estate assets or equity in entities holding
such real estate assets. The revolving credit facility matures
in June 2007 and has a one-year extension option, which is
subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions and the
payment of an extension fee equal to 0.25% of the outstanding
commitments under the facility at that time. The rate on the
borrowings is generally TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on
the current credit rating of the Operating Partnership’s
long-term debt and is currently 60 basis points. In
addition, there is an annual facility fee, payable in quarterly
amounts, which is based on the credit rating of the Operating
Partnership’s long-term debt, and is currently
20 basis points of the outstanding commitments under the
facility. As of December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance
on this credit facility, using the exchange rate in effect on
December 31, 2004, was $88.8 million in
U.S. dollars. The revolving credit facility contains
customary and other affirmative covenants, including financial
reporting requirements and maintenance of specified financial
ratios, and negative covenants, including limitations on the
incurrence of liens and limitations on mergers or
consolidations. Management believes that the Company and the
Operating Partnership were in compliance with their financial
covenants at December 31, 2004.

On November 24, 2004, AMB Tokai TMK, a Japanese subsidiary
of AMB Property, L.P., entered into a secured multi-advance
project financing, providing for loans in a maximum principal
amount outstanding at

F-18

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

any time of up to 20 billion Yen, which, using the exchange
rate in effect on December 31, 2004, equaled approximately
$194.9 million U.S. dollars. The financing agreement
is among AMB Tokai TMK, the Company, AMB Property, L.P.,
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (“Sumitomo”) and a
syndicate of banks. The Company and AMB Property, L.P. jointly
and severally guarantee AMB Tokai TMK’s obligations under
the financing agreement, pursuant to a guaranty of payment
executed in connection with the project financing. The financing
is secured by a mortgage on certain real property located in
Tokai, Tokyo, Japan, and matures on October 31, 2006 with a
one-year extension option. The rate on the borrowings is
generally TIBOR plus a margin, which is based on the credit
rating of AMB Property, L.P.’s long-term debt and is
currently 60 basis points per annum, except that AMB Tokai
TMK has purchased from Sumitomo an interest rate swap, which has
fixed the interest rate payable on a principal amount equal to
13 billion Yen at 1.32% per annum plus the applicable
margin. In addition, there is an annual commitment fee based on
unused commitments, payable quarterly, which is based on the
credit rating of AMB Property, L.P.’s long-term debt, and
is currently 20 basis points of the amount of unused
commitments. The financing agreement contains customary and
other affirmative covenants, including financial reporting
requirements and maintenance of specified financial ratios, and
negative covenants, including limitations on the incurrence of
liens and limitations on mergers or consolidations. In addition,
Sumitomo, AMB Tokai TMK and AMB Property, L.P. signed a
commitment letter on November 24, 2004, pursuant to which
Sumitomo committed to purchase bonds that may be issued by AMB
Tokai TMK in an amount between 10 billion Yen and
15 billion Yen (such amount to be determined by AMB Tokai
TMK). The bonds would be secured by the AMB Ohta Distribution
Center and would generally accrue interest at a rate of TIBOR
plus 1.10% per annum; because the swap purchased by AMB
Tokai TMK from Sumitomo is coterminous with the maturity date of
the proposed bonds, AMB Tokai TMK will have fixed the interest
rate payable on, in general, a principal amount equal to
13 billion Yen at 2.42% per annum. The bonds, if
issued, would mature on October 31, 2012. As of
December 31, 2004, the outstanding balance on this
financing agreement was 14 billion Yen, which, using the
exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2004, equaled
approximately $136.4 million U.S. dollars.

As of December 31, 2004, the scheduled maturities of the
Company’s total debt, excluding unamortized debt premiums,
were as follows (dollars in thousands):

F-19

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

7.

Leasing Activity

Future minimum base rental income due under non-cancelable
leases with customers in effect as of December 31, 2004 was
as follows (dollars in thousands):


$

526,966


446,462


365,890


281,143


215,081

Thereafter

579,854

Total

$

2,415,396

The schedule does not reflect future rental revenues from the
renewal or replacement of existing leases and excludes property
operating expense reimbursements. In addition to minimum rental
payments, certain customers pay reimbursements for their pro
rata share of specified operating expenses, which amounted to
$134.1 million, $103.6 million and $108.0 million
for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. These amounts are included as rental revenue and
operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements
of operations. Some leases contain options to renew.

8.

Income Taxes

The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Code,
commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 1997.
To qualify as a REIT, the Company must meet a number of
organizational and operational requirements, including a
requirement that it currently distribute at least 90% of its
taxable income to its stockholders. It is management’s
current intention to adhere to these requirements and maintain
the Company’s REIT status. As a REIT, the Company generally
will not be subject to corporate level federal income tax on net
income it distributes currently to its stockholders. As such, no
provision for federal income taxes for the REIT has been
included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year,
it will be subject to federal income taxes at regular corporate
rates (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) and may
be ineligible to qualify as a REIT for four subsequent taxable
years. Even if the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the
Company may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its
income and excise taxes on its undistributed taxable income. The
Company is required to pay federal and state income tax on its
net taxable income, if any, from the activities conducted by the
Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries. Where the Company
operates in countries other than the U.S. that do not
recognize REITs under their respective tax laws, the Company
recognizes income taxes as necessary.

F-20

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following is a reconciliation of net income available to
common stockholders to taxable income available to common
stockholders for the years ended December 31 (dollars in
thousands):

(1)

Primarily due to straight-line rent, prepaid rent, joint venture
    accounting and debt premium amortization timing differences.

For income tax purposes, distributions paid to common
stockholders consist of ordinary income, capital gains,
non-taxable return of capital or a combination thereof. For the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company
elected to distribute all of its taxable capital gain. The
taxability of the Company’s distributions to common
stockholders’ was as follows:




Ordinary income

$

0.78

46.1

%

$

1.07

64.5

%

$

1.05

64.0

%

Capital gains

0.37

21.9

%

0.47

28.3

%

—

—

Unrecaptured Section 1250 gain

0.15

8.9

%

0.12

7.2

%

0.18

11.0

%

Dividends taxed in subsequent year

—

—

—

—

0.41

25.0

%

Dividends paid or payable

1.30

76.9

%

1.66

100.0

%

1.64

100.0

%

Return of Capital

0.39

23.1

%

—

—

—

—

Total Distributions

$

1.69

100.0

%

$

1.66

100.0

%

$

1.64

100.0

%

9.

Minority Interests in Consolidated Joint Ventures and
    Preferred Units

Minority interests in the Company represent the limited
partnership interests in the Operating Partnership, limited
partnership interests in AMB Property II, L.P. and
interests held by certain third parties in several real estate
joint ventures, aggregating approximately 44.1 million
square feet, which are consolidated for financial reporting
purposes. Such investments are consolidated because the Company
exercises significant control over major operating decisions
such as approval of budgets, selection of property managers,
asset management, investment activity and changes in financing.
These joint venture investments do not meet the variable
interest entity criteria under FASB Interpretation No. 46R,

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.

Through the Operating Partnership, the Company enters into
co-investment joint ventures with institutional investors. The
Company’s co-investment joint ventures are engaged in the
acquisition, ownership, operation, management and, in some
cases, the renovation, expansion and development of industrial
buildings in target markets nationwide.

F-21

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The Company’s consolidated co-investment joint
ventures’ total investment and property debt in properties
at December 31, 2004 and 2003 (dollars in thousands) were:

On November 26, 2003, the Operating Partnership redeemed
all 1,300,000 of its outstanding


/


%
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Partnership Units,
for an aggregate redemption price of $65.6 million,
including accrued and unpaid dividends.

On July 14, 2003, AMB Property II, L.P., one of the
Company’s subsidiaries, repurchased 66,300 of its
outstanding 7.95% Series F Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Limited Partnership Units from a single institutional investor.
AMB Property II, L.P. repurchased the units for an
aggregate cost of $3.3 million, including accrued and
unpaid dividends.

F-22

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following table distinguishes the minority interest
liability as of December 31, 2004 and 2003 (dollars in
thousands):

The following table distinguishes the minority interests’
share of income, including minority interests’ share of
development profits, but excluding minority interests’
share of discontinued operations for the years ending
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 (dollars in thousands):

F-23

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

10.

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures

The Company’s investment in unconsolidated joint ventures
at December 31, 2004 and 2003 totaled $55.2 million
and $52.0 million, respectively. The Company’s
unconsolidated joint ventures’ net equity investments at
December 31, 2004 and 2003 (dollars in thousands) were:

On December 31, 2004, the Company formed AMB-SGP Mexico,
LLC, a joint venture with Industrial (Mexico) JV Pte Ltd, a real
estate investment subsidiary of the Government of Singapore
Investment Corporation, in which the Company retained a 20%
interest. The Company contributed $71.5 million in
operating properties, consisting of eight industrial buildings,
aggregating approximately 1.3 million square feet, to this
fund. The Company recognized a gain of $7.2 million on the
contribution, representing the portion of its interest in the
contributed properties acquired by the third-party investors for
cash.

Under the agreements governing the joint ventures, the Company
and the other parties to the joint venture may be required to
make additional capital contributions and, subject to certain
limitations, the joint ventures may incur additional debt.

The Company also has a 0.1% unconsolidated equity interest (with
an approximate 33% economic interest) in AMB Pier One, LLC, a
joint venture to redevelop the Company’s office space in
San Francisco. The investment is not consolidated because
the Company does not exercise significant control over major
operating decisions such as approval of budgets, selection of
property managers, investment activity and changes in financing.
The Company has an option to purchase the remaining equity
interest beginning January 1, 2007 and expiring
December 31, 2009, based on the fair market value as
stipulated in the operating agreement.

11.

Stockholders’ Equity

Holders of common limited partnership units of the Operating
Partnership and class B common limited partnership units of
AMB Property II, L.P. have the right, commencing generally
on or after the first anniversary of the holder becoming a
limited partner of the Operating Partnership or AMB
Property II, L.P., as applicable (or such other date agreed
to by the Operating Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P.
and the applicable unit holders), to require the Operating
Partnership or AMB Property II, L.P., as applicable, to
redeem part or all of their common units or class B common
limited partnership units, as applicable, for cash (based upon
the fair market value, as defined in the applicable partnership
agreement, of an equivalent

F-24

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

number of shares of common stock of the Company at the time of
redemption) or the Operating Partnership or AMB
Property II, L.P. may, in its respective sole and absolute
discretion (subject to the limits on ownership and transfer of
common stock set forth in the Company’s charter), elect to
have the Company exchange those common units or class B
common limited partnership units, as applicable, for shares of
the Company’s common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject
to adjustment in the event of stock splits, stock dividends,
issuance of certain rights, certain extraordinary distributions
and similar events. With each redemption or exchange of the
Operating Partnership’s common units, the Company’s
percentage ownership in the Operating Partnership will increase.
Common limited partners and class B common limited partners
may exercise this redemption right from time to time, in whole
or in part, subject to certain limitations. During 2004, the
Operating Partnership redeemed 17,686 of its common limited
partnership units for an equivalent number of shares of the
Company’s common stock.

During 2003, the Operating Partnership redeemed 226,145 of its
common limited partnership units for cash and 2,000 of its
common limited partnership units for shares of the
Company’s common stock. In November 2003, AMB Property II,
L.P. issued 145,548 of its class B common limited
partnership units in connection with a property acquisition.
During 2002, the Operating Partnership redeemed 122,640 of its
common limited partnership units for shares of the
Company’s common stock.

During 2003, the Company repurchased and retired
812,900 shares of its common stock for an aggregate
purchase price of $21.2 million, including commissions. In
December 2003, the Company’s board of directors approved a
new two-year common stock repurchase program for the repurchase
of up to $200.0 million worth of common stock. For the year
ended December 31, 2004, the Company did not repurchase any
shares of its common stock.

On June 23, 2003, the Company issued and sold
2,000,000 shares of 6.5% Series L Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock for $25.00 per share. Dividends
are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly
in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.625 per annum.
The series L preferred stock is redeemable by the Company
on or after June 23, 2008, subject to certain conditions,
for cash at a redemption price equal to $25.00 per share,
plus accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon, if any, to the
redemption date. The Company contributed the net proceeds of
$48.0 million to the Operating Partnership, and in
exchange, the Operating Partnership issued to the Company
2,000,000 6.5% Series L Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Units. The Operating Partnership used the proceeds, in addition
to proceeds previously contributed to the Operating Partnership
from other equity issuances, to redeem all 3,995,800 shares
of its 8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units
from the Company on July 28, 2003. The Company, in turn,
used those proceeds to redeem all 3,995,800 shares of its
8.5% Series A Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock for
$100.2 million, including accumulated and unpaid dividends
through the redemption date. During 2003, the Company recognized
a reduction of net income available to common stockholders of
$3.7 million for the original preferred stock issuance
costs. On November 26, 2003, the Operating Partnership
redeemed all 1,300,000 of its outstanding


/


%
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Partnership Units
and we recognized a reduction of income available to common
stockholders of $1.7 million for the original issuance
costs.

On November 25, 2003, the Company issued and sold
2,300,000 shares of 6.75% Series M Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Stock for $25.00 per share. Dividends
are cumulative from the date of issuance and payable quarterly
in arrears at a rate per share equal to $1.6875 per annum.
The series M preferred stock is redeemable by the Company
on or after November 25, 2008, subject to certain
conditions, for cash at a redemption price equal to
$25.00 per share, plus accumulated and unpaid dividends
thereon, if any, to the redemption date. The Company contributed
the net proceeds of $55.4 million to the Operating
Partnership, and in exchange, the Operating Partnership issued
to the Company 2,300,000 6.75% Series M Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Units.

F-25

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

On September 24, 2004, AMB Property II, L.P., a
partnership in which Texas AMB I, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company and the Company’s indirect subsidiary,
owns an approximate 1.0% general partnership interest and the
Operating Partnership owns an approximate 99% common limited
partnership interest, issued 729,582 5.0% Series N
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Limited Partnership Units at a
price of $50.00 per unit. The series N preferred units
were issued to Robert Pattillo Properties, Inc. in exchange for
the contribution of certain parcels of land that are located in
multiple markets to AMB Property II, L.P. Beginning
September 25, 2006 and until and including
September 25, 2009, the series N preferred units may
be redeemed by AMB Property II, L.P. at a redemption price
equal to 99.5% of the original $50.00 per unit capital
contribution, plus all accrued and unpaid distributions to the
date of redemption, which shall be paid solely out of capital
contributed to AMB Property II, L.P. by Texas AMB I,
LLC or the Operating Partnership (other than with respect to the
accumulated but unpaid distributions). Pursuant to a Put
Agreement, dated September 24, 2004, by and between Robert
Pattillo Properties, Inc. and the Operating Partnership,
beginning on June 1, 2005 and until January  15,
2006, the holders of the series N preferred units will have
the right to sell all, but not less than all, of such units to
the Operating Partnership (or to certain designees) at a price
equal to $50.00 per unit, plus all accrued and unpaid
distributions to the date of such sale.

The Company has authorized 100,000,000 shares of preferred
stock for issuance, of which the following series were
designated as of December 31, 2004: 1,595,337 shares
of series D preferred; 220,440 shares of series E
cumulative redeemable preferred; 267,439 shares of
series F cumulative redeemable preferred;
840,000 shares of series H cumulative redeemable
preferred; 510,000 shares of series I cumulative
redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of series J
cumulative redeemable preferred; 800,000 shares of
series K cumulative redeemable preferred;
2,300,000 shares of series L cumulative redeemable
preferred; and 2,300,000 shares of series M cumulative
redeemable preferred.

The following table sets forth the dividends and distributions
paid per share or unit:

F-26

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

12.

Stock Incentive Plan, 401(k) Plan and Deferred Compensation
    Plan

Stock Incentive Plan.

The Company has Stock Option and
Incentive Plans (“Stock Incentive Plans”) for the
purpose of attracting and retaining eligible officers, directors
and employees. The Company has reserved for issuance
18,950,000 shares of common stock under its Stock Incentive
Plans. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had 10,220,631
non-qualified options outstanding granted to certain directors,
officers and employees. Each option is exchangeable for one
share of the Company’s common stock. As of
December 31, 2004, the options had a weighted average
exercise price of $25.40 and the exercise prices range from
$19.50 to $36.92. Each option’s exercise price is equal to
the Company’s market price on the date of grant. The
options have an original ten-year term and generally vest pro
rata in annual installments over a three to five-year period
from the date of grant.

In 2002, the Company adopted the expense recognition provisions
of SFAS No. 123,

Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation

. The Company values stock options using the
Black-Scholes option-pricing model and recognizes this value as
an expense over the vesting periods. Under this standard,
recognition of expense for stock options is applied to all
options granted after the beginning of the year of adoption. In
accordance with SFAS No. 123, the Company will
recognize the associated expense over the three to five-year
vesting periods. Under SFAS No. 123, related stock
option expense was $4.0 million, $2.4 million and
$0.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2004,
2003 and 2002, respectively. Additionally, the Company awards
restricted stock and recognizes this value as an expense over
the vesting periods. Related restricted stock compensation
expense was $6.4 million, $5.7 million and
$4.3 million for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The
expense is included in general and administrative expenses in
the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The
adoption of SFAS No. 123 is prospective and the 2002
and 2003 expense relates only to stock options granted in 2002
and subsequent periods. Prior to January 1, 2002, the
Company applied APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees” and related interpretations in
accounting for its Stock Incentive Plan. Opinion 25 measures
compensation cost using the intrinsic value based method of
accounting. Under this method, compensation cost is the excess,
if any, of the quoted market price of the stock at the date of
grant over the amount an employee must pay to acquire the stock.
Accordingly, no compensation cost had been recognized for the
Company’s Stock Incentive Plan as of December 31, 2001.

As permitted by SFAS No. 148,

Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and
Disclosure — An Amendment of FASB Statement
No. 123

, the Company has changed its method of
accounting for stock options beginning January 1, 2002. The
Company has not retroactively changed its method of accounting
for stock options but has provided additional required
disclosures. Had compensation cost for the Company’s
stock-based compensation plans been determined based on the fair
value at the grant dates for awards prior to 2002 consistent
with the method of SFAS No. 123, the Company’s
pro forma net income available to common stockholders would have
been reduced by $1.1 million, $1.6 million and
$2.4 million and pro forma basic and diluted earnings per
share would have been reduced to $1.43 and $1.37; $1.42 and
$1.39; and $1.33 and $1.30, respectively, for the years ended
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002.

The fair value of each option grant was estimated at the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the
following assumptions used for grants in 2004, 2003 and 2002,
respectively: dividend yields of 4.8%, 6.1% and 5.9%; expected
volatility of 18.6%, 17.7% and 13.3%; risk-free interest rates
of 3.6%,

F-27

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

3.4% and 4.0%; and expected lives of seven years for each year.
Following is a summary of the option activity for the years
ended December 31 (options in thousands):

In 2004, 2003 and 2002, the Company issued 227,609, 272,620 and
204,072 restricted shares, respectively, to certain officers of
the Company as part of the performance pay program and in
connection with employment with the Company. As of
December 31, 2004, 75,988 shares of restricted stock
have been forfeited. The 1,178,052 outstanding restricted shares
are subject to repurchase rights, which generally lapse over a
period from three to five years.

401(k) Plan.

In November 1997, the Company established a
Section 401(k) Savings/ Retirement Plan (the “401(k)
Plan”), which is a continuation of the 401(k) Plan of the
predecessor, to cover eligible employees of the Company and any
designated affiliates. During 2004 and 2003, the 401(k) Plan
permitted eligible employees of the Company to defer up to 20%
of their annual compensation, subject to certain limitations
imposed by the Code. The employees’ elective deferrals are
immediately vested and non-forfeitable upon contribution to the
401(k) Plan. During 2004 and 2003, the Company matched employee
contributions to the 401(k) Plan in an amount equal to 50% of
the first 5.5% of annual compensation deferred by each employee.
The Company may also make discretionary contributions to the
401(k) Plan. In 2004 and 2003, the Company paid
$0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, for its
401(k) match. No discretionary contributions were made by the
Company to the 401(k) Plan in 2004, 2003 and 2002.

Deferred Compensation Plan.

The Company has established a
non-qualified deferred compensation plan for officers of the
Company and certain of its affiliates, which enables
participants to defer income up to

F-28

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

100% of annual base pay and up to 100% of annual bonuses on a
pre-tax basis. The Company may make discretionary matching
contributions to participant accounts at any time. The Company
made no such discretionary matching contributions in 2004, 2003
or 2002. The participant’s elective deferrals and any
matching contributions are immediately 100% vested. As of
December 31, 2004 and 2003, the total fair value of
compensation deferred was $15.4 million and
$7.1 million, respectively.

13.

Income Per Share

The Company’s only dilutive securities outstanding for the
years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 were stock
options and restricted stock granted under its stock incentive
plans. The effect on income per share was to increase weighted
average shares outstanding. Such dilution was computed using the
treasury stock method.




WEIGHTED AVERAGE COMMON SHARES

Basic

82,133,627

81,096,062

83,310,885

Stock options and restricted stock

3,234,999

1,756,466

1,485,102

Diluted weighted average common shares

85,368,626

82,852,528

84,795,987

14.

Commitments and Contingencies

Commitments

Lease Commitments.

The Company holds operating ground
leases on land parcels at its on-tarmac facilities, leases on
office spaces for corporate use, and a leasehold interest that
it holds for investment purposes. The remaining lease terms are
from two to 58 years. Operating lease payments are being
amortized ratably over the terms of the related leases. Future
minimum rental payments required under non-cancelable operating
leases in effect as of December 31, 2004 were as follows
(dollars in thousands):


$

10,810


11,320


11,280


11,310


11,169

Thereafter

222,437

Total

$

278,326

Standby Letters of Credit.

As of December 31, 2004,
the Company had provided approximately $33.6 million in
letters of credit, of which $13.9 million was provided
under the Operating Partnership’s $500.0 million
unsecured credit facility. The letters of credit were required
to be issued under certain ground lease provisions, bank
guarantees and other commitments.

Guarantees.

Other than parent guarantees associated with
the unsecured debt of the Operating Partnership, as of
December 31, 2004, the Company had outstanding guarantees
in the aggregate amount of $34.7 million in connection with
certain acquisitions and lease obligations of which
$8.3 million was backed by standby letters of credit. As of
December 31, 2004, the Company guaranteed $4.8 million
on outstanding construction loans for two of its unconsolidated
joint ventures. Additionally, the Company provided a take out
guarantee after the completion of construction on the aggregate
construction loan amount of $30.2 million for another of
its unconsolidated joint ventures, of which $20.9 million
was outstanding as of December 31, 2004.

F-29

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

In connection with this construction loan, the Company’s
joint venture partner provides an underlying construction loan
guarantee up to the completion of construction.

Performance and Surety Bonds.

As of December 31,
2004, the Company had outstanding performance and surety bonds
in an aggregate amount of $1.2 million. These bonds were
issued in connection with certain of its development projects
and were posted to guarantee certain tax obligations and the
construction of certain real property improvements and
infrastructure, such as grading, sewers and streets. Performance
and surety bonds are commonly required by public agencies from
real estate developers. Performance and surety bonds are
renewable and expire upon the payment of the taxes due or the
completion of the improvements and infrastructure.

Promoted Interests and Other Contractual Obligations.

Upon the achievement of certain return thresholds and the
occurrence of certain events, the Company may be obligated to
make payments to certain of joint venture partners pursuant to
the terms and provisions of their contractual agreements with
the Operating Partnership. From time to time in the normal
course of the Company’s business, the Company enters into
various contracts with third parties that may obligate it to
make payments or perform other obligations upon the occurrence
of certain events.

Contingencies

Litigation.

In the normal course of business, from time
to time, the Company may be involved in legal actions relating
to the ownership and operations of its properties. Management
does not expect that the liabilities, if any, that may
ultimately result from such legal actions will have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results
of operations or cash flows of the Company.

Environmental Matters.

The Company monitors its
properties for the presence of hazardous or toxic substances.
The Company is not aware of any environmental liability with
respect to the properties that would have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s business, assets or results of
operations. However, there can be no assurance that such a
material environmental liability does not exist. The existence
of any such material environmental liability would have an
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and
cash flow. The Company carries environmental insurance and
believes that the policy terms, conditions, limits and
deductibles are adequate and appropriate under the
circumstances, given the relative risk of loss, the cost of such
coverage and current industry practice.

General Uninsured Losses.

The Company carries property
and rental loss, liability, flood and terrorism insurance. The
Company believes that the policy terms, conditions, limits and
deductibles are adequate and appropriate under the
circumstances, given the relative risk of loss, the cost of such
coverage and current industry practice. In addition, certain of
the Company’s properties are located in areas that are
subject to earthquake activity; therefore, the Company has
obtained limited earthquake insurance on those properties. There
are, however, certain types of extraordinary losses, such as
those due to acts of war that may be either uninsurable or not
economically insurable. Although the Company has obtained
coverage for certain acts of terrorism, with policy
specifications and insured limits that it believes are
commercially reasonable, there can be no assurance that the
Company will be able to collect under such policies. Should an
uninsured loss occur, the Company could lose its investment in,
and anticipated profits and cash flows from, a property.

Captive Insurance Company.

In December 2001, the Company
formed a wholly-owned captive insurance company, Arcata National
Insurance Ltd. (“Arcata”), which provides insurance
coverage for all or a portion of losses below the deductible
under the Company’s third-party policies. The Company
capitalized Arcata in accordance with the applicable regulatory
requirements. Arcata established annual premiums based on
projections derived from the past loss experience at the
Company’s properties. Annually, the Company engages an
independent third party to perform an actuarial estimate of
future projected claims, related deductibles and projected
expenses necessary to fund associated risk management programs.
Premiums paid

F-30

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

to Arcata may be adjusted based on this estimate. Premiums paid
to Arcata have a retrospective component, so that if expenses,
including losses, deductibles and reserves, are less than
premiums collected, the excess may be returned to the property
owners (and, in turn, as appropriate, to the customers) and
conversely, subject to certain limitations, if expenses,
including losses, deductibles and reserves, are greater than
premiums collected, an additional premium will be charged. As
with all recoverable expenses, differences between estimated and
actual insurance premiums will be recognized in the subsequent
year. Through this structure, the Company believes that it has
more comprehensive insurance coverage at an overall lower cost
than would otherwise be available in the market.

15.

Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Selected quarterly financial results for 2004 and 2003 were as
follows (dollars in thousands, except share and per share
amounts):

(1)

Certain reclassifications have been made to the quarterly data
    to conform with the annual presentation with no net effect to
    net income or net income available to common stockholders.

(2)

The sum of quarterly financial data may vary from the annual
    data due to rounding.

F-31

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

(1)

Certain reclassifications have been made to the quarterly data
    to conform with the annual presentation with no net effect to
    net income or per share amounts.

(2)

The sum of quarterly financial data may vary from the annual
    data due to rounding.

16.

Segment Information

The Company mainly operates industrial properties and manages
its business by markets. Industrial properties represent more
than 99.5% of the Company’s portfolio by rentable square
feet and consist primarily of warehouse distribution facilities
suitable for single or multiple customers, and are typically
comprised of multiple buildings that are leased to customers
engaged in various types of businesses. The Company’s
geographic markets for industrial properties are managed
separately because each market requires different operating,
pricing and leasing strategies. The remaining 0.5% of the
Company’s portfolio is comprised of retail and other
properties located in Southeast Florida and Atlanta. The Company
does not separately manage its retail operations by market.
Retail properties are generally leased to one or more anchor
customers, such as grocery and drug stores, and various retail
businesses. The accounting policies of the segments are the same
as

F-32

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

those described in the summary of significant accounting
policies (See footnote 2). The Company evaluates
performance based upon property net operating income of the
combined properties in each segment.

The other domestic target markets category includes Austin,
Baltimore/ Washington D.C., Boston and Minneapolis. The other
domestic non-target markets category captures all of the
Company’s other U.S. markets, except for those markets
listed individually in the table. The international target
markets category includes France, Germany, Japan, Mexico and the
Netherlands.

Summary information for the reportable segments is as follows
(dollars in thousands):

(1)

Property net operating income (“NOI”) is defined as
    rental revenue, including reimbursements, less property
    operating expenses, which excludes depreciation, amortization,
    general and administrative expenses and interest expense. For a
    reconciliation of NOI to net income, see the table below.

The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental
performance measure because NOI reflects the operating
performance of the Company’s real estate portfolio on a
segment basis, and the Company uses NOI to make decisions about
resource allocations and to assess regional property level
performance. However, NOI should not be viewed as an alternative
measure of the Company’s financial performance since it
does not reflect general and administrative expenses, interest
expense, depreciation and amortization costs, capital
expenditures and leasing costs, or trends in development and
construction activities that could materially impact the
Company’s results from operations. Further, the
Company’s NOI may not be comparable to that of other real
estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for
calculating

F-33

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

NOI. The following table is a reconciliation from NOI to
reported net income, a financial measure under GAAP:

(1)

Non-segment assets consist of corporate assets including cash,
    investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and mortgages
    receivable.

F-34

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

17.

Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited)

During the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company
acquired 64 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
7.6 million square feet for a total expected investment of
$695.2 million.

The following unaudited pro forma information for the years
ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 have been prepared to
reflect the incremental effect of the acquisition of properties
during 2004 by the Company as if such transactions and
adjustments had occurred at the beginning of each year and were
carried forward through their issuance dates.

During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company
acquired 82 industrial buildings, aggregating approximately
6.5 million square feet for a total expected investment of
$533.9 million.

F-35

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS — (Continued)

The following unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of
operations for the year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002
have been prepared to reflect the acquisitions of properties
during 2003 by the Company and the issuance of unsecured senior
debt securities in November 2003 related to property
acquisitions, as if such transactions and adjustments had
occurred at the beginning of each year and were carried forward
through their issuance dates.

F-36

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2004

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

S-1

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2004

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

S-2

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2004

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

S-3

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2004

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

S-4

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2004

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

S-5

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2004

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

S-6

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2004

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

S-7

AMB PROPERTY CORPORATION

SCHEDULE III

CONSOLIDATED REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

As of December 31, 2004

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

S-8

(1)

Reconciliation of total cost to consolidated balance sheet
    caption as of December 31, 2004:

Total per Schedule III(5)

$

5,814,767

Construction in process(6)

711,377

Total investments in properties

$

6,526,144

(2)

As of December 31, 2004, the aggregate cost for federal
    income tax purposes of investments in real estate was $6,263,171.

(3)

Reconciliation of total debt to consolidated balance sheet
    caption as of December 31, 2004:

Total per Schedule III

$

1,828,864

Debt on properties held for divestiture

27,481

Debt on development properties

25,413

Unamortized premiums

10,766

Total debt

$

1,892,524

(4)

Reconciliation of accumulated depreciation to consolidated
    balance sheet caption as of December 31, 2004:

Total per Schedule III

$

614,084

Accumulated depreciation on properties under renovation

1,562

Total accumulated depreciation

$

615,646

(5)

A summary of activity for real estate and accumulated
    depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2004 is as
    follows:

(6)

Includes $515.2 million of fundings for development
    projects as of December 31, 2004.

S-9

EXHIBIT INDEX

*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement