Item 1.Business



Unless this Form 10-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Sysco,” or “thecompany” as used in this Form 10-K refer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated subsidiaries and divisions.



Overview



Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions, is the largest North American distributor of food and related products primarily to thefoodservice or food-away-from-home industry.  We provide products and related services to approximately 425,000customers, including restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodgingestablishments and other foodservice customers.



Founded in 1969, Syscocommenced operations as a public company in March 1970 when the stockholders of nine companies exchanged their stock for Sysco common stock.  Since our formation, we have grownfrom $115.0 millionto$44.4billionin annual sales, both through internal expansion of existing operations and through acquisitions.



Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th.  This resulted in a 52-week year endingJune 29, 2013 for fiscal 2013,June 30, 2012for fiscal2012and,July 2, 2011forfiscal 2011.



Sysco Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware.  The address and telephone number of our executive offices are 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099, (281) 584-1390.  This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed or furnished by Sysco pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on Sysco’s website atwww.sysco.comas soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Operating Segments



Sysco provides food and related products to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry.  Under the accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise, we have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined by accounting standards.  Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to their customers.  SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to chain restaurant customer locations.  Our other segments include our specialty produce and lodging industry products segments, a company that distributes specialty imported products and a company that distributes to international customers.  Specialty produce companies distribute fresh produce and, on a limited basis, other foodservice products.  Our lodging industry products company distributes personal care guest amenities, equipment, housekeeping supplies, room accessories and textiles to the lodging industry.  Selected financial data for each of our reportable segments as well as financial information concerning geographic areas can be foundinNote21,“BusinessSegment Information,”in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.



Customers and Products



Sysco’s customers in the foodservice industry include restaurants, hospitals and nursing homes, schools and colleges, hotels and motels, industrial caterers and other similar venues where foodservice products are served.  Services to our customers are supported by similar physical facilities, vehicles, material handling equipment and techniques, and administrative and operating staffs.



The products we distribute include:



·a full line of frozen foods, such as meats, seafood, fully prepared entrees, fruits, vegetables and desserts;

·a full line of canned and dry foods;

·fresh meats and seafood;

·dairy products;

·beverage products;

·imported specialties; and

·fresh produce.



We also supply a wide variety of non-food items, including:



·paper products such as disposable napkins, plates and cups;

·tableware such as china and silverware;

·cookware such as pots, pans and utensils;








·restaurant and kitchen equipment and supplies; and

·cleaning supplies.



A comparison of the sales mix in the principal product categories during the last three years is presented below:



201320122011Canned and dry products19%19%19%Fresh and frozen meats191918Frozen fruits, vegetables, bakery and other141414Dairy products101011Poultry101010Fresh produce888Paper and disposables888Seafood555Beverage products444Janitorial products222Equipment and smallwares111Medical supplies(1)---100%100%100%



(1)Sales are less than 1% of total



Ourdistribution centers, which we refer to asoperating companies,distribute nationally-branded merchandise, as well as products packaged under our private brands.Products packaged under our private brands have been manufactured for Syscoaccording to specifications that have been developed by our quality assurance team.  In addition, our quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces our quality control standards and identifies supply sources that satisfy our requirements.



We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders, competitive pricing, close contact with customers and the ability to provide a full array of products and services to assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary importance in the marketing and distribution of foodservice products to our customers.  Our operating companies offer daily deliveryto certain customer locations and have the capability of deliveringspecial orders on short notice.Through ourapproximately12,600sales and marketing representatives and support staff of Sysco and our operating companies, we stay informed ofthe needs ofour customers and acquaint them with new products and services.  Our operating companies also provide ancillary services relating to foodservice distribution, such as providing customers with product usage reports and other data, menu-planning advice, food safety training and assistance in inventory control, as well as access to various third party services designed to add value to our customers’ businesses.



No single customer accounted for 10% or moreof Sysco’s total sales for the fiscal year ended June 29, 2013.



Based upon available information, we estimate that sales by type of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows:



Type of Customer201320122011Restaurants61%63%62%Hospitals and nursing homes91011Hotels and motels566Schools and colleges555Other201616Totals100%100%100%



Sources of Supply



We purchase from thousands of suppliers,both domestic andinternational,none of which individually accounts for more than 10% of our purchases.Thesesuppliers consist generally of large corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise, as well as independent regional brand and private label processors and packers.  Purchasing is generally carried out through both centrally developed purchasing programs and direct purchasing programs established by our various operating companies.



Weadminister a consolidated product procurement program designed to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products.The program covers the purchasing and marketing of Sysco Brand merchandise as well as products from a number of national brand suppliers, encompassing substantially all product lines.Sysco’s operating companies purchase product from the suppliers participating intheseconsolidatedprograms and from other suppliers, although Sysco Brand products are only available to the operating companies throughthese consolidatedprograms.We also focus on increasing profitability by lowering operating








costs and by lowering aggregate inventory levels, which reduces future facility expansion needs at our broadline operating companies, while providing greater value to our suppliers and customers.  This includesthe construction and operation of regional distribution centers (RDCs), which aggregate inventory demand to optimize the supply chain activities for certain products for all Sysco broadline operating companies in the region.  Currently, we have two RDCs in operation, one in Virginia and one in Florida.



Working Capital Practices



Our growth is funded through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings.  See the discussion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources” at Item 7 regarding our liquidity, financial position and sources and uses of funds.



Credit terms we extend to our customers can vary from cash on delivery to 30 days or more based on our assessment of each customer’s credit worthiness.  We monitor each customer’s account and will suspend shipments if necessary.



A majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours of when customer orders are placed.  We generally maintain inventory on hand to be able to meet customer demand.  The level of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on shelf-life, supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer demand.  We also make purchases of additional volumes of certain products based on supply or pricing opportunities.



We take advantage of suppliers’ cash discounts where appropriate and otherwise generally receive payment terms from our suppliers ranging from weekly to 30 days or more.



Corporate Headquarters And Shared Services Center



Our corporate staff makes available a number of services to our operating companies.  Members of the corporate staff possess experience and expertise in, among other areas, accounting and finance, treasury, legal, cash management, information technology, employee benefits, engineering, real estate and construction, risk management and insurance, sales and marketing, payroll, human resources, training and development, strategy, and tax compliance services.  The corporate office also makes available warehousing and distribution services, which provide assistance in operational best practices including space utilization, energy conservation, fleet management and work flow.



Ourshared services center performssupport services for employees, suppliers and customers, payroll administration, human resources, customer and vendor contract administration, financial services such as vendor payments, invoicing, cash application, certain credit services, accounting and sales and use tax administration, procurement and maintenance support and sales support forsome ofour operating companies.



Capital Improvements



To maximize productivity and customer service, we continue to modernize, expand and construct new distribution facilities.  During fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011,approximately $511.9million, $784.5million and $636.4 million, respectively, were invested in delivery fleet, facilities, technology and other capital asset enhancements.  Weestimate our capital expenditures in fiscal 2014 should be in therangeof $550 million to $600 million.Duringthe three years ended June 29, 2013, capital expenditureswere financed primarily by internally generated funds, our commercial paper program and bank and other borrowings.We expect to finance our fiscal 2014 capital expenditures from the same sources.



Employees



As of June 29, 2013, we hadapproximately48,100full-time employees,approximately17%of whomwere represented by unions, primarily theInternational Brotherhood of Teamsters.Contract negotiations are handledby each individual operating company.Approximately35%of our unionemployees are covered by collective bargaining agreementswhichhave expired orwill expire during fiscal2014 and are subject to renegotiation.SinceJune 29, 2013,twocontractscoveringapproximately 300of such employeeshavebeen renegotiated.  We consider our labor relations to be satisfactory.



Competition



Industry sources estimate that there are more than15,000 companies engaged in the distribution of food and non-food products to the foodservice industry in the United States.  Our customers may also choose to purchase products directly from retail outlets or negotiate prices directly with our suppliers.  While we compete primarily with local and regional distributors, a few organizations compete with us on a national basis.  We believe that the principal competitive factors in the foodservice industry are effective customer contacts, the ability to deliver awide range of quality products and related services on a timely and dependable basis and competitive prices.  An additional competitive factor for our larger chain restaurant customers is the ability to provide a national distribution network.We consider our primary market to be the foodservice market in the United States and Canada and estimate that we serveabout 18% of this approximately $235billion annualmarket.  We believe, based upon industry trade data, that our sales tothe United States and Canadafood-away-from-homeindustrywere the highest ofany foodservice distributor duringfiscal2013.While adequate industry statistics are not available, we believe that in mostinstances our local operations are among the leading








distributors of food and related non-food products to foodservice customers in their respective trading areas.  We believe our competitive advantages include our more than 7,000 marketing associates, our diversified product base, which includes a differentiated group of high quality Sysco brand products, the diversity in the types of customers we serve, our economies of scale and our wide geographic presence in the United States and Canada, which mitigates some of the impact of regional economic declines that may occur over time and provides a national distribution network for larger chain restaurant customers.  We believe our liquidity and access to capital provides us the ability to continuously invest in business improvements.  We are the only publicly-traded distributor in the food-away-from-home industry in the United States.  While our public company status provides us with some advantages, including access to capital, we believe it also provides us with some disadvantages that our competitors do not have in terms of additional costs related to complying with regulatory requirements.



Government Regulation



Our company is required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with all applicable laws in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do business. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us, and our operations may come under special scrutiny by competition law authorities due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions.  In general, competition laws are designed to protect businesses and consumers from anti-competitive behavior.



In the United States,



We and our products are also subject to state and local regulation through such measures as the licensing of our facilities; enforcement by state and local health agencies of state and local standards for our products; and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of our products. Our facilities are subject to inspections and regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act by the U.S. Department of Labor. These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing, health and safety standards to protect our employees from accidents and to establish hazard communication programs to transmit information on the hazards of certain chemicals present in products we distribute.



We are also subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Department of Labor, which sets employment practice standards for workers, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, which regulates transportation of perishable and hazardous materials and waste, and similar state, provincial and local agencies.



The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits bribery of public officials to obtain or retain business in foreign jurisdictions. The FCPA also requires us to keep accurate books and records and to maintain internal accounting controls to detect and prevent bribery and to ensure that transactions are properly authorized. We have implemented and continue to develop a robust anti-corruption compliance program applicable to our global operations to detect and prevent bribery and to comply with these and other anti-corruption laws in countries where we operate.



Outside the United States, our business is subject to numerous similar statutes and regulations, as well as other legal and regulatory requirements.



All of our company's facilities and other operations in the United States and elsewhere around the world are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater.Further, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks.Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements.We are subject to other federal, state, provincial and local provisions relating to the protection of the environment or the discharge of materials; however, these provisions do not materially impact the use or operation of our facilities.














General



We have numerous trademarks that are of significant importance, including the SYSCO®trademark and our privately-branded product trademarks that include the SYSCO®trademark.  These trademarks and the private brands on which they are used are widely recognized within the foodservice industry.  Approximately half of our privately-branded sales are from products labeled with our SYSCO®trademark without any other trademark.  We believe the loss of the SYSCO®trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Our U.S. trademarks are effective for a ten-year period and the company generally renews its trademarks before their expiration datesunlessa particulartrademark is no longer in use.The company does not have any material patents or licenses.



We are not engaged in material research and development activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products.



Our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal basis; therefore, the business of the company is not deemed to be seasonal.



As of June 29, 2013, we operated 193 distribution facilities throughout the United States, Bahamas, Canada, Ireland and Northern Ireland.





