Item 1.Business



Unless this Form 10-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Sysco,” or “the company” as used in this Form 10-K refer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated subsidiaries and divisions.



Overview



Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and divisions, is the largest North American distributor of food and related products primarily to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry.  We provide products and related services to approximately 425,000 customers, including restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers.



Founded in 1969, Sysco commenced operations as a public company in March 1970 when the stockholders of nine companies exchanged their stock for Sysco common stock.  Since our formation, we have grown from $115.0 million to $46.5 billion in annual sales, both through internal expansion of existing operations and through acquisitions.



Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th.  This resulted in a 52-week year ending June 28, 2014 for fiscal 2014, June 29, 2013 for fiscal 2013 and June 30, 2012 for fiscal 2012.



Sysco Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware.  The address and telephone number of our executive offices are 1390 Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas 77077-2099, (281) 584-1390.  This annual report on Form 10-K, as well as all other reports filed or furnished by Sysco pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on Sysco’s website atwww.sysco.comas soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Proposed Merger with US Foods



In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, Sysco announced an agreement to merge with US Foods, Inc. (US Foods).  US Foods is a leading foodservice distributor in the United States (U.S.) that markets and distributes fresh, frozen and dry food and non-food products to more than 200,000 foodservice customers including independently owned single location restaurants, regional and national chain restaurants, healthcare and educational institutions, hotels and motels, government and military organizations and retail locations.  Following the completion of the proposed merger, the combined company will continue to be named Sysco and headquartered in Houston, Texas.



As of the time the merger agreement was announced in December 2013, Sysco agreed to pay approximately $3.5 billion for the equity of US Foods, comprised of $3 billion of Sysco common stock and $500 million of cash.  As part of the transaction, Sysco will also assume or refinance US Foods’ net debt, which was approximately $4.7 billion as of September 28, 2013, bringing the total enterprise value to $8.2 billion at the time of the merger announcement.  As of August 13, 2014, the merger consideration is estimated as follows:  approximately $3.7 billion for the equity of US Foods, comprised of $3.2 billion of Sysco common stock valued using the seven day average through August 13, 2014, and $500 million of cash.  US Foods' net debt to be assumed or refinanced was approximately $4.8 billion as of June 28, 2014, bringing the total enterprise value to $8.5 billion as of August 13, 2014.  The value of Sysco’s common stock and the amount of US Foods’ net debt will fluctuate.  As such, the components of the transaction and total enterprise value noted above will not be finalized until the merger is consummated.



We have secured a fully committed bridge financing and expect to issue longer-term financing prior to closing.  After completion of the transaction, the equity holders of US Foods will own approximately 87 million shares, or roughly 13%, of Sysco.  A representative from each of US Foods’ two majority shareholders will join Sysco’s Board of Directors upon closing.  This merger is currently pending a regulatory review process by the Federal Trade Commission.  We expect the transaction to close by the end of the third quarter or in the fourth quarter of calendar 2014.  Under certain conditions, including lack of regulatory approval, Sysco would be obligated to pay $300 million to the owners of US Foods if the merger were cancelled, which would be recognized as an expense.



Operating Segments



Sysco provides food and related products to the foodservice or food-away-from-home industry.  Under the accounting provisions related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise, we have aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as defined by accounting standards.  Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to their customers.  SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to chain restaurant customer locations.  Our other segments include our specialty produce and lodging industry products segments, a company that distributes specialty imported products, a company that distributes to international customers and the company’s Sysco Ventures platform, a suite of technology








solutions that help support the business needs of Sysco’s customers.  Specialty produce companies distribute fresh produce and, on a limited basis, other foodservice products.  Our lodging industry products company distributes personal care guest amenities, equipment, housekeeping supplies, room accessories and textiles to the lodging industry.  Selected financial data for each of our reportable segments, as well as financial information concerning geographic areas, can be found in Note 21, “Business Segment Information,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.



Customers and Products



Sysco’s customers in the foodservice industry include restaurants, hospitals and nursing homes, schools and colleges, hotels and motels, industrial caterers and other similar venues where foodservice products are served.  Services to our customers are supported by similar physical facilities, vehicles, material handling equipment and techniques, and administrative and operating staffs.



The products we distribute include:



·a full line of frozen foods, such as meats, seafood, fully prepared entrees, fruits, vegetables and desserts;

·a full line of canned and dry foods;

·fresh meats and seafood;

·dairy products;

·beverage products;

·imported specialties; and

·fresh produce.



We also supply a wide variety of non-food items, including:



·paper products such as disposable napkins, plates and cups;

·tableware such as china and silverware;

·cookware such as pots, pans and utensils;

·restaurant and kitchen equipment and supplies; and

·cleaning supplies.



A comparison of the sales mix in the principal product categories during the last three years is presented below:



201420132012Fresh and frozen meats19%19%19%Canned and dry products181919Frozen fruits, vegetables, bakery and other131414Dairy products111010Poultry101010Fresh produce888Paper and disposables788Seafood555Beverage products444Janitorial products222Equipment and smallwares211Medical supplies(1)1--100%100%100%



(1)Sales are less than 1% of total for years shown with a “-“.



Our distribution centers, which we refer to as operating companies, distribute nationally-branded merchandise, as well as products packaged under our private brands.  Products packaged under our private brands have been manufactured for Sysco according to specifications that have been developed by our quality assurance team.  In addition, our quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces our quality control standards and identifies supply sources that satisfy our requirements.



We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders, competitive pricing, close contact with customers and the ability to provide a full array of products and services to assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary importance in the marketing and distribution of foodservice products to our customers.  Our operating companies offer daily delivery to certain customer locations and have the capability of delivering special orders on short notice.  Through our approximately 12,800 sales and marketing representatives and support staff of Sysco and our operating companies, we stay informed of the needs of our customers and acquaint them with new products and services.  Our operating companies also provide ancillary services relating to foodservice distribution,








such as providing customers with product usage reports and other data, menu-planning advice, food safety training and assistance in inventory control, as well as access to various third party services designed to add value to our customers’ businesses.



No single customer accounted for 10% or more of Sysco’s total sales for the fiscal year ended June 28, 2014.



We estimate thatoursales by type of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows:





Type of Customer201420132012Restaurants62%61%63%Healthcare91010Education, government988Travel, leisure, retail888Other(1)121311Totals100%100%100%



(1)Other includes cafeterias that are not stand alone restaurants, bakeries, caterers, churches, civic and fraternal organizations, vending distributors, other distributors and international exports.  None of these types of customers, as a group, exceeded 5% of total sales in any of the years for which information is presented.



Sources of Supply



We purchase from thousands of suppliers, both domestic and international, none of which individually accounts for more than 10% of our purchases.  These suppliers consist generally of large corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise, as well as independent regional brand and private label processors and packers.  Purchasing is generally carried out through both centrally developed purchasing programs and direct purchasing programs established by our various operating companies.



We administer a consolidated product procurement program designed to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food and non-food products.  The program covers the purchasing and marketing of Sysco Brand merchandise, as well as products from a number of national brand suppliers, encompassing substantially all product lines.  Sysco’s operating companies purchase product from the suppliers participating in these consolidated programs and from other suppliers, although Sysco Brand products are only available to the operating companies through these consolidated programs.  We also focus on increasing profitability by lowering operating costs and by lowering aggregate inventory levels, which reduces future facility expansion needs at our broadline operating companies, while providing greater value to our suppliers and customers.  This includes the construction and operation of regional distribution centers (RDCs), which aggregate inventory demand to optimize the supply chain activities for certain products for all Sysco broadline operating companies in the region.  Currently, we have two RDCs in operation, one in Virginia and one in Florida.



Working Capital Practices



Our growth is funded through a combination of cash flow from operations, commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings.  See the discussion in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Liquidity and Capital Resources” at Item 7 regarding our liquidity, financial position and sources and uses of funds.



Credit terms we extend to our customers can vary from cash on delivery to 30 days or more based on our assessment of each customer’s credit worthiness.  We monitor each customer’s account and will suspend shipments if necessary.



A majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours of when customer orders are placed.  We generally maintain inventory on hand to be able to meet customer demand.  The level of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on shelf-life, supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer demand.  We also make purchases of additional volumes of certain products based on supply or pricing opportunities.



We take advantage of suppliers’ cash discounts where appropriate and otherwise generally receive payment terms from our suppliers ranging from weekly to 30 days or more.



Corporate Headquarters and Shared Services Center



Our corporate staff makes available a number of services to our operating companies.  Members of the corporate staff possess experience and expertise in, among other areas, accounting and finance, treasury, legal, cash management, information technology, employee benefits, engineering, real estate and construction, risk management and insurance, sales and marketing, payroll, human resources, training and development, strategy, and tax compliance services.  The corporate office also makes available warehousing and distribution services, which provide assistance in operational best practices including space utilization, energy conservation, fleet management and work flow.












Our shared services center performs support services for employees, suppliers and customers, payroll administration, human resources, customer and vendor contract administration, financial services such as vendor payments, invoicing, cash application, certain credit services, accounting and sales and use tax administration, procurement and maintenance support and sales support for some of our operating companies.



Capital Improvements



To maximize productivity and customer service, we continue to modernize, expand and construct new distribution facilities.  During fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, approximately $523.2 million, $511.9 million and $784.5 million, respectively, were invested in delivery fleet, facilities, technology and other capital asset enhancements.  From time to time, we dispose of assets in the normal course of business; we consider proceeds from these asset sales to be an offset to capital expenditures.  During fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, were $497.4 million, $496.3 million and $776.3 million, respectively.  We estimate our capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, in fiscal 2015 should be in the range of $500 million to $550 million.  During the three years ended June 28, 2014, capital expenditures were financed primarily by internally generated funds, our commercial paper program and bank and other borrowings.  We expect to finance our fiscal 2015 capital expenditures from the same sources.



Employees



As of June 28, 2014, we had approximately 50,300 full-time employees, approximately 17% of whom were represented by unions, primarily the International Brotherhood of Teamsters.  Contract negotiations are handled by each individual operating company.  Approximately 21% of our union employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that have expired or will expire during fiscal 2015 and are subject to renegotiation.  Since June 28, 2014, there have been no contract renegotiations.  We consider our labor relations to be satisfactory.



Competition



Industry sources estimate that there are more than 15,000 companies engaged in the distribution of food and non-food products to the foodservice industry in the U.S.  Our customers may also choose to purchase products directly from wholesale or retail outlets, including club, cash and carry and grocery stores, or negotiate prices directly with our suppliers.  Online retailers and e-commerce companies are also participants in the foodservice industry.  While we compete primarily with local and regional distributors, some organizations compete with us on a multi-region basis.  In addition, these local, regional and multi-regional distributors can create purchasing cooperatives and marketing groups to enhance their competitive abilities by expanding their product mix, improving purchasing power and extending their geographic capabilities.  We believe that the principal competitive factors in the foodservice industry are effective customer contacts, the ability to deliver a wide range of quality products and related services on a timely and dependable basis and competitive prices.

Our customers are accustomed to purchasing from multiple suppliers and channels concurrently.  Product needs, service requirements and price are just a few of the factors they evaluate when deciding where to purchase.  Customers can choose from many broadline foodservice distributors, specialty distributors that focus on specific categories such as produce, meat or seafood, other wholesale channels, club stores, cash and carry stores, grocery stores and numerous online retailers.  Since switching costs are very low, customers can make supplier and channel changes very quickly.  There are few barriers to market entry.  Existing foodservice competitors can extend their shipping distances, and add truck routes and warehouses relatively quickly to serve new markets or customers.





Government Regulation



Our company is required to comply, and it is our policy to comply, with all applicable laws in the numerous countries throughout the world in which we do business. In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us, and our operations may come under special scrutiny by competition law authorities due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions.  In general, competition laws are designed to protect businesses and consumers from anti-competitive behavior.












In the U.S.,



We and our products are also subject to state and local regulation through such measures as the licensing of our facilities; enforcement by state and local health agencies of state and local standards for our products; and regulation of our trade practices in connection with the sale of our products.  Our facilities are subject to inspections and regulations issued pursuant to the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act by the U.S. Department of Labor.  These regulations require us to comply with certain manufacturing, health and safety standards to protect our employees from accidents and to establish hazard communication programs to transmit information on the hazards of certain chemicals present in products we distribute.



We are also subject to regulation by numerous federal, state and local regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Department of Labor, which sets employment practice standards for workers, and the U.S. Department of Transportation, which regulates transportation of perishable and hazardous materials and waste, and similar state, provincial and local agencies.  In addition, we are also subject to the U.S. False Claims Act, and similar state statutes, which prohibit the submission of claims for payment to the government that are false and the knowing retention of overpayments.



The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits bribery of public officials to obtain or retain business in foreign jurisdictions.  The FCPA also requires us to keep accurate books and records and to maintain internal accounting controls to detect and prevent bribery and to ensure that transactions are properly authorized.  We have implemented and continue to develop a robust anti-corruption compliance program applicable to our global operations to detect and prevent bribery and to comply with these and other anti-corruption laws in countries where we operate.



Outside the U.S., our business is subject to numerous similar statutes and regulations, as well as other legal and regulatory requirements.



All of our company's facilities and other operations in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater.Further, most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel and other petroleum products which are subject to laws regulating such systems and storage tanks.Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements.We are subject to other federal, state, provincial and local provisions relating to the protection of the environment or the discharge of materials; however, these provisions do not materially impact the use or operation of our facilities.



General



We have numerous trademarks that are of significant importance, including the SYSCO®trademark and our privately-branded product trademarks that include the SYSCO®trademark.  These trademarks and the private brands on which they are used are widely recognized within the foodservice industry.  Approximately half of our privately-branded sales are from products labeled with our SYSCO®trademark without any other trademark.  We believe the loss of the SYSCO®trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Our U.S. trademarks are effective for a ten-year period and the company generally renews its trademarks before their expiration dates unless a particular trademark is no longer in use.  The company does not have any material patents or licenses.



We are not engaged in material research and development activities relating to the development of new products or the improvement of existing products.



Our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal basis; therefore, the business of the company is not deemed to be seasonal.












As of June 28, 2014, we operated 194 distribution facilities throughout the U.S., Bahamas, Canada, Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.





