ITEM 1.Business



Unless thisForm 10-Kindicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms
    “we,” “our,” “us,”
    “Sysco,” or “the company” as used in thisForm 10-Krefer to Sysco Corporation together with its consolidated
    subsidiaries and divisions.



Overview



Sysco Corporation, acting through its subsidiaries and
    divisions, is the largest North American distributor of food and
    related products primarily to the foodservice or
    food-away-from-home industry. We provide products and related
    services to approximately 400,000 customers, including
    restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging
    establishments and other foodservice customers.



Founded in 1969, Sysco commenced operations as a public company
    in March 1970 when the stockholders of nine companies exchanged
    their stock for Sysco common stock. Since our formation, we have
    grown from $115.0 million to $39.3 billion in annual
    sales, both through internal expansion of existing operations
    and through acquisitions.



Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June
    30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 2, 2011
    for fiscal 2011, a 53-week year ending July 3, 2010 for
    fiscal 2010 and a 52-week year ending June 27, 2009 for
    2009.



Sysco Corporation is organized under the laws of Delaware. The
    address and telephone number of our executive offices are 1390
    Enclave Parkway, Houston, Texas77077-2099,(281) 584-1390.This annual report onForm 10-K,as well as all other reports filed or furnished by Sysco
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge on
    Sysco’s website atwww.sysco.comas soon as
    reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with
    or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Operating
    Segments



Sysco provides food and related products to the foodservice or
    food-away-from-home industry. Under the accounting provisions
    related to disclosures about segments of an enterprise, we have
    aggregated our operating companies into a number of segments, of
    which only Broadline and SYGMA are reportable segments as
    defined by accounting standards. Broadline operating companies
    distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of
    non-food products to their customers. SYGMA operating companies
    distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of
    non-food products to chain restaurant customer locations. Our
    other segments include our specialty produce and lodging
    industry products segments and a company that distributes to
    international customers. Specialty produce companies distribute
    fresh produce and, on a limited basis, other foodservice
    products. Our lodging industry products company distributes
    personal care guest amenities, equipment, housekeeping supplies,
    room accessories and textiles to the lodging industry. Selected
    financial data for each of our reportable segments as well as
    financial information concerning geographic areas can be found
    in Note 19, “Business Segment Information,” in
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.



Customers and
    Products



Sysco’s customers in the foodservice industry include
    restaurants, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and
    other similar venues where foodservice products are served.
    Services to our customers are supported by similar physical
    facilities, vehicles, material handling equipment and
    techniques, and administrative and operating staffs.



The products we distribute include:

•a full line of frozen foods, such as meats, fully prepared
    entrees, fruits, vegetables and desserts;•a full line of canned and dry foods;•fresh meats;•dairy products;•beverage products;•imported specialties; and•fresh produce.



We also supply a wide variety of non-food items, including:

•paper products such as disposable napkins, plates and cups;•tableware such as china and silverware;•cookware such as pots, pans and utensils;•restaurant and kitchen equipment and supplies; and•cleaning supplies.







A comparison of the sales mix in the principal product
    categories during the last three years is presented below:



201120102009Canned and dry products19%19%19%Fresh and frozen meats181717Frozen fruits, vegetables, bakery and other141414Dairy products111010Poultry101010Fresh produce898Paper and disposables888Seafood555Beverage products444Janitorial products223Equipment and smallwares122Medical
    supplies(1)———100%100%100%









(1)Sales are less than 1% of total



Our operating companies distribute nationally-branded
    merchandise, as well as products packaged under our private
    brands. Products packaged under our private brands have been
    manufactured for Sysco according to specifications that have
    been developed by our quality assurance team. In addition, our
    quality assurance team certifies the manufacturing and
    processing plants where these products are packaged, enforces
    our quality control standards and identifies supply sources that
    satisfy our requirements.



We believe that prompt and accurate delivery of orders,
    competitive pricing, close contact with customers and the
    ability to provide a full array of products and services to
    assist customers in their foodservice operations are of primary
    importance in the marketing and distribution of foodservice
    products to our customers. Our operating companies offer daily
    delivery to certain customer locations and have the capability
    of delivering special orders on short notice. Through our
    approximately 13,500 sales and marketing representatives and
    support staff of Sysco and our operating companies, we stay
    informed of the needs of our customers and acquaint them with
    new products and services. Our operating companies also provide
    ancillary services relating to foodservice distribution, such as
    providing customers with product usage reports and other data,
    menu-planning advice, food safety training and assistance in
    inventory control, as well as access to various third party
    services designed to add value to our customers’ businesses.



No single customer accounted for 10% or more of Sysco’s
    total sales for the fiscal year ended July 2, 2011.



Based upon available information, we estimate that sales by type
    of customer during the past three fiscal years were as follows:



Type of Customer201120102009Restaurants62%62%62%Hospitals and nursing homes111111Hotels and motels666Schools and colleges555Other161616Totals100%100%100%





Sources of
    Supply



We purchase from thousands of suppliers, both domestic and
    international, none of which individually accounts for more than
    10% of our purchases. These suppliers consist generally of large
    corporations selling brand name and private label merchandise,
    as well as independent regional brand and private label
    processors and packers. Purchasing is generally carried out
    through both centrally developed purchasing programs and direct
    purchasing programs established by our various operating
    companies.



We administer a consolidated product procurement program
    designed to develop, obtain and ensure consistent quality food
    and non-food products. The program covers the purchasing and
    marketing of Sysco Brand merchandise as well as products from a
    number of national brand suppliers, encompassing substantially
    all product lines. Sysco’s operating companies purchase
    product from the suppliers participating in these consolidated
    programs and from other suppliers, although Sysco Brand products
    are only available to the operating companies through these
    consolidated programs. We also focus on increasing profitability
    by lowering operating costs and by lowering aggregate inventory
    levels, which reduces future facility expansion needs at our
    broadline operating companies, while providing greater value to
    our suppliers and customers. This includes the construction and
    operation of regional distribution centers (RDCs), which
    aggregate inventory demand to optimize the supply chain
    activities for certain products for all Sysco broadline
    operating companies in the region. Currently, we have two RDCs
    in operation in Virginia and Florida and will begin construction
    on a third RDC in fiscal 2012 in Indiana.



Working Capital
    Practices



Our growth is funded through a combination of cash flow from
    operations, commercial paper issuances and long-term borrowings.
    See the discussion in “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
    Liquidity and Capital Resources” at Item 7 regarding
    our liquidity, financial position and sources and uses of funds.





Credit terms we extend to our customers can vary from cash on
    delivery to 30 days or more based on our assessment of each
    customer’s credit worthiness. We monitor each
    customer’s account and will suspend shipments if necessary.



A majority of our sales orders are filled within 24 hours
    of when customer orders are placed. We generally maintain
    inventory on hand to be able to meet customer demand. The level
    of inventory on hand will vary by product depending on
    shelf-life, supplier order fulfillment lead times and customer
    demand. We also make purchases of additional volumes of certain
    products based on supply or pricing opportunities.



We take advantage of suppliers’ cash discounts where
    appropriate and otherwise generally receive payment terms from
    our suppliers ranging from weekly to 30 days or more.



Corporate
    Headquarters And Shared Services Center



Our corporate staff makes available a number of services to our
    operating companies. Members of the corporate staff possess
    experience and expertise in, among other areas, accounting and
    finance, treasury, legal, cash management, information
    technology, employee benefits, engineering, real estate and
    construction, risk management and insurance, sales and
    marketing, payroll, human resources, training and development,
    strategy, and tax compliance services. The corporate office also
    makes available warehousing and distribution services, which
    provide assistance in operational best practices including space
    utilization, energy conservation, fleet management and work flow.



We are in the early stages of implementing a shared services
    center that will perform support services for employees,
    suppliers and customers, payroll administration, human
    resources, customer and vendor contract administration,
    financial services such as vendor payments, invoicing, cash
    application, certain credit services, accounting and sales and
    use tax administration, procurement and maintenance support and
    sales support for our operating companies.



Capital
    Improvements



To maximize productivity and customer service, we continue to
    modernize, expand and construct new distribution facilities.
    During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately
    $636.4 million, $594.6 million and $464.6 million
    respectively, were invested in technology, facilities, delivery
    fleet and other capital asset enhancements. We estimate our
    capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 should be in the range of
    $750 million to $800 million. During the three years
    ended July 2, 2011, capital expenditures were financed
    primarily by internally generated funds, our commercial paper
    program and bank and other borrowings. We expect to finance our
    fiscal 2012 capital expenditures from the same sources.



We are undertaking a multi-year Business Transformation Project,
    pursuant to which we are developing and implementing an
    integrated software system to support a majority of our
    businesses and further streamline our operations. These systems
    are commonly referred to as Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
    systems. Approximately $100 million to $120 million of
    the fiscal 2012 estimated capital expenditures are related to
    the Business Transformation Project.



Employees



As of July 2, 2011, we had approximately
    46,000 full-time employees, approximately 17% of whom were
    represented by unions, primarily the International Brotherhood
    of Teamsters. Contract negotiations are handled by each
    individual operating company. Approximately 25% of our union
    employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements which
    have expired or will expire during fiscal 2012 and are subject
    to renegotiation. Since July 2, 2011, two contracts
    covering 85 of such employees have been renegotiated. We
    consider our labor relations to be satisfactory.



Competition







Government
    Regulation



As a marketer and distributor of food products, we are subject
    to the U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and
    regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and
    Drug Administration (FDA), as well as the Canadian Food and
    Drugs Act and the regulations thereunder.





In Canada, the Canadian Food Inspection Agency administers and
    enforces the food safety and nutritional quality standards
    established by Health Canada under the Canadian Food and Drugs
    Act and under other related federal legislation, including the
    Canada Agricultural Products Act, the Meat Inspection Act, the
    Fish Inspection Act and the Consumer Packaging and Labeling Act
    (as it relates to food). These laws regulate the processing,
    storing, grading, packaging, marking, transporting and
    inspection of certain Sysco product lines as well as the
    packaging, labeling, sale, importation and advertising of
    pre-packaged and certain other products.



We and our products are also subject to state, provincial and
    local regulation through such measures as the licensing of our
    facilities; enforcement by state, provincial and local health
    agencies of state, provincial and local standards for our
    products; and regulation of our trade practices in connection
    with the sale of our products. Our facilities are subject to
    inspections and regulations issued pursuant to the
    U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Act by the
    U.S. Department of Labor, together with similar
    occupational health and safety laws in each Canadian province.
    These regulations require us to comply with certain
    manufacturing, health and safety standards to protect our
    employees from accidents and to establish hazard communication
    programs to transmit information on the hazards of certain
    chemicals present in products we distribute.



We are also subject to regulation by numerous U.S. and
    Canadian federal, state, provincial and local regulatory
    agencies, including, but not limited to, the
    U.S. Department of Labor and each Canadian provincial
    ministry of labour, which set employment practice standards for
    workers, and the U.S. Department of Transportation and the
    Canadian Transportation Agency, which regulate transportation of
    perishable and hazardous materials and waste, and similar state,
    provincial and local agencies.



Most of our distribution facilities have ammonia-based
    refrigeration systems and tanks for the storage of diesel fuel
    and other petroleum products which are subject to laws
    regulating such systems and storage tanks. Although we are
    subject to other U.S. and Canadian federal, state,
    provincial and local provisions relating to the protection of
    the environment or the discharge of materials, these provisions
    do not materially impact the use or operation of our facilities.



Compliance with these laws has not had, and is not anticipated
    to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings
    or competitive position.



General



We have numerous trademarks that are of significant importance,
    including the
    SYSCO®trademark and our privately-branded product trademarks that
    include the
    SYSCO®trademark. These trademarks and the private brands on which they
    are used are widely recognized within the foodservice industry.
    Approximately half of our privately-branded sales are from
    products labeled with our
    SYSCO®trademark without any other trademark. We believe the loss of
    the
    SYSCO®trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations. Our U.S. trademarks are effective for a ten
    year period and the company generally renews its trademarks
    before their expiration dates unless a particular trademark is
    no longer in use. The company does not have any material patents
    or licenses.



We are not engaged in material research and development
    activities relating to the development of new products or the
    improvement of existing products.



Our sales do not generally fluctuate significantly on a seasonal
    basis; therefore, the business of the company is not deemed to
    be seasonal.



As of July 2, 2011, we operated 177 distribution facilities
    throughout the United States, Canada and Ireland.





