Item 1.Business.



Introduction



We are among the largest providers of cable services in the United States, offering a variety of entertainment, information and communications solutions to residential and commercial customers.  Our infrastructure consists of a hybrid fiber coaxial cable plant passing approximately 12.0 million homes, with 98% of homes passed at 550 megahertz (“MHz”) or greater and 98% of plant miles two-way active. A national Internet Protocol (IP) infrastructure interconnects Charter Communications, Inc. (“Charter”) markets. See "Item 1. Business — Products and Services" for further description of these terms and services, including "customers."



For the year endedDecember 31, 2011, we generated approximately $7.2 billion in revenue, of which approximately 50% was generated from our residential video service. We also generated revenue from Internet, telephone service and advertising.  Internet and telephone service in both residential and commercial markets contributed the majority of the recent growth in our revenue.



As ofDecember 31, 2011, we served approximately 5.2 million residential and commercial customers. We sell our video, Internet and telephone services primarily on a subscription basis, often in a bundle of two or more services, providing savings and convenience to our customers. Bundled services are available to approximately 97% of our homes passed, and approximately 62% of our customers subscribe to a bundle of services.



We served approximately 4.1 million residential video customers as ofDecember 31, 2011, and approximately 79% of our video customers subscribed to digital video service. Digital video enables our customers to access advanced video services such as high definition ("HD") television, Charter OnDemand™(“OnDemand”)video programming, an interactive program guide and digital video recorder (“DVR”) service.



We also served approximately 3.5 million residential Internet customers as ofDecember 31, 2011. Our Internet service is available in a variety of download speeds up to 100 megabits per second (“Mbps”) and upload speeds of up to 5 Mbps.  We also offer home networking service, or in-home Wi-Fi, enabling our customers to connect up to five computers wirelessly in the home.



We provided telephone service to approximately 1.8 million residential customers as ofDecember 31, 2011. Our telephone services typically include unlimited local and long distance calling to the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, plus other features, including voicemail, call waiting and caller ID.



Through Charter Business®, we provide scalable, tailored broadband communications solutions to business and carrier organizations, such as Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video entertainment services and business telephone services. As ofDecember 31, 2011, we served approximately 476,200 commercial primary service units, primarily small- and medium-sized commercial customers. Our advertising sales division, Charter Media®, provides local, regional and national businesses with the opportunity to advertise in individual markets on cable television networks.



We have a history of net losses.  Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses, interest expenses that we incur on our debt, depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made, and continue to make, in our cable properties, amortization expenses resulting from the application of fresh start accounting and non-cash taxes resulting from increases in our deferred tax liabilities.



On March 27, 2009, we and certain affiliates filed voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”), to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”).  The Chapter 11 cases were jointly administered under the caption In re Charter Communications, Inc., et al., Case No. 09-11435.  On May 7, 2009, we filed a Joint Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”) and a related disclosure statement with the Bankruptcy Court.  The Plan was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on November 17, 2009 (the “Confirmation Order”), and became effective on November 30, 2009 (the “Effective Date”), the date on which we emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.



The terms “Charter,” “we,” “our” and “us,” when used in this report with respect to the period prior to Charter’s emergence from bankruptcy, are references to the Debtors (“Predecessor”) and, when used with respect to the period commencing after Charter’s emergence, are references to Charter (“Successor”). These references include the subsidiaries of Predecessor or Successor, as the case may be, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise.












Our principal executive offices are located at 12405 Powerscourt Drive, St. Louis, Missouri 63131.  Our telephone number is (314) 965-0555, and we have a website accessible at www.charter.com.  Since January 1, 2002, our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, have been made available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this annual report.












Corporate Entity Structure



The chart below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect subsidiaries.  This chart does not include all of our affiliates and subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for presentation purposes.  The equity ownership percentages shown below are approximations and do not give effect to any exercise of then outstanding warrants.  Indebtedness amounts shown below are principal amounts as ofDecember 31, 2011.  See Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which also includes the accreted values of the indebtedness described below.














Charter Communications, Inc.Charter owns 100% of Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC (“Charter Holdco”).  Charter Holdco, through its subsidiaries, owns cable systems.  As sole manager under applicable operating agreements, Charter controls the affairs of Charter Holdco and its limited liability company subsidiaries.  In addition, Charter provides management services to Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries under a management services agreement.



Interim Holding Company Debt Issuers.As indicated in the organizational chart above, our interim holding company debt issuers indirectly own the subsidiaries that own or operate all of our cable systems, subject to a CC VIII, LLC (“CC VIII”) 70% preferred interest held by CCH I, LLC (“CCH I”) and 30% preferred interest held by Charter as described below.  For a description of the debt issued by these issuers please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Description of Our Outstanding Debt.”



Preferred Equity in CC VIII.AtDecember 31, 2011, Charter owned 30% of the CC VIII preferred membership interests.  CCH I, an indirect subsidiary of Charter, directly owned the remaining 70% of these preferred interests.  The common membership interests in CC VIII are indirectly owned by Charter Operating.



Products and Services



Through our hybrid fiber and coaxial cable network, we offer our customers traditional cable video services (basic and digital, which we refer to as “video” services), as well as advanced video services (such as OnDemand, HD television, and DVR service), Internet services and telephone services.  Our telephone services are primarily provided using voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) technology, to transmit digital voice signals over our systems.  Our video, Internet, and telephone services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription basis, with prices and related charges that vary primarily based on the types of service selected, whether the services are sold as a “bundle” or on an individual basis, and the equipment necessary to receive the services, with some variation in prices.



The following table summarizes our customer statistics for basic video, digital video, Internet and telephone as ofDecember 31, 2011and2010.



Approximate as ofDecember 31,2011(a)2010(a)Video (b)4,090,3004,278,400Internet (c)3,491,8003,246,100Telephone (d)1,791,3001,717,000Residential PSUs (e)9,373,4009,241,500Video (b)(f)234,500242,000Internet (c)(g)162,800138,500Telephone (d)78,90059,900Commercial PSUs (e)476,200440,400Digital video RGUs (h)3,410,4003,363,200Total RGUs(i)13,260,00013,045,100



After giving effect to divestitures and acquisitions of cable systems in 2010 and 2011, residential basic video customers, residential Internet customers and residential telephone customers would have been approximately 4,305,800, 3,263,200 and 1,721,800, respectively, as ofDecember 31, 2010. After giving effect to divestitures and acquisitions of cable systems in 2010 and 2011, commercial basic video customers, commercial Internet customers, commercial telephone customers and digital video revenue generating units would have been approximately 241,900, 138,500, 59,900 and 3,371,300, respectively, as ofDecember 31, 2010.



(a)We calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the monthly billing cycle for each account.  On that basis, atDecember 31, 2011and2010, customers include approximately 18,600 and 15,700 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days past due in payment, approximately 2,500 and 1,800 customers, respectively, whose accounts










were over 90 days past due in payment, and approximately 1,400 and 1,000 customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days past due in payment.



(b)“Video customers” represent those customers who subscribe to our video cable services.



(c)“Internet customers” represent those customers who subscribe to our Internet service.



(d)“Telephone customers” represent those customers who subscribe to our telephone service.



(e)“Primary Service Units” or “PSUs” represent the total of video, Internet and telephone customers.



(f)Included within commercial video customers are those in commercial and multi-dwelling structures, which are calculated on an equivalent bulk unit (“EBU”) basis.  We calculate EBUs by dividing the bulk price charged to accounts in an area by the published rate charged to non-bulk residential customers in that market for the comparable tier of service. This EBU method of estimating basic video customers is consistent with the methodology used in determining costs paid to programmers and is consistent with the methodology used by other multiple system operators (“MSOs”).  As we increase our published video rates to residential customers without a corresponding increase in the prices charged to commercial service or multi-dwelling customers, our EBU count will decline even if there is no real loss in commercial service or multi-dwelling customers.



(g)Prior year commercial Internet customers were adjusted to reflect current year presentation.



(h)“Digital video RGUs” include all video customers that rent one or more digital set-top boxes or cable cards.



(i)“Revenue generating units” or “RGUs” represent the total of all basic video, digital video, Internet and telephone customers, not counting additional outlets within one household.  For example, a customer who receives two types of service (such as basic video and digital video) would be treated as two RGUs and, if that customer added on Internet service, the customer would be treated as three RGUs.  This statistic is computed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Cable & Telecommunications Association (“NCTA”).



Video Services



In2011, residential video services represented approximately 50% of our total revenues.  Our video service offerings include the following:



•Basic and Digital Video.All of our video customers receive a package of basic programming which generally consists of local broadcast television, local community programming, including governmental and public access, and limited satellite-delivered or non-broadcast channels, such as weather, shopping and religious programming.  Our digital video services include a digital set-top box, an interactive electronic programming guide with parental controls, an expanded menu of pay-per-view channels, including OnDemand (available nearly everywhere), digital quality music channels and the option to also receive a cable card. In addition to video programming, digital video service enables customers to receive our advanced video services such as DVRs and HD television.



•Premium Channels.These channels provide original programming, commercial-free movies, sports, and other special event entertainment programming.  Although we offer subscriptions to premium channels on an individual basis, we offer an increasing number of digital video and premium channel packages, and we offer premium channels combined with our advanced video services.  Customers who purchase premium channels also have access to that programming OnDemand and increasingly over the Internet.  Charter offers premium sports content and access to a number of cable programmers such as HBO, Cinemax, EPIX and Turner on an authenticated basis over the Internet on charter.net.



•OnDemand, Subscription OnDemand and Pay-Per-View.OnDemand service allows customers to select from hundreds of movies and other programming at any time.  OnDemand includes HD and three dimensional ("3D") content.  OnDemand programming options may be accessed for a fee or, in some cases, for no additional charge.  In some areas we also offer subscription OnDemand for a monthly fee or included in a digital tier premium channel subscription.  Pay-per-view channels allow customers to pay on a per event basis to view a single showing of a recently released movie, a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or similar event on a commercial-free basis.










•High Definition Television.HD television offers our digital customers certain video programming at a higher resolution to improve picture and audio quality versus standard basic or digital video images.  We have invested and continue to invest in switched digital video (“SDV”) technology and simulcast to increase the number of HD channels offered.



•Digital Video Recorder.DVR service enables customers to digitally record programming and to pause and rewind live programming.    Multi-room DVR service permits customers to access and watch any of their video recordings on any other connected television in the customer's home.  Charter customers also have the ability to program their DVR's remotely via a website.In early 2011, we entered into an agreement with TiVo to develop software code and allow for the deployment of TiVo enabled set top boxes in our markets. The product utilizes the TiVo user interface and a hybrid platform that leverages traditional cable and next generation IP technologies.  We have deployed a version of the TiVo product in our Fort Worth, Texas market and are working with TiVo to actively field test the TiVo product in several other markets with our employees.  Charter does not expect that testing to be completed in time for it to fully launch TiVo across the enterprise by the end of the second quarter as previously projected.



•Online.Online video offers our customers the ability to watch traditional TV content over the Internet from any Internet connection in the United States once they are authenticated as a Charter customer.  In 2011, Charter added content from HBO Go, Max Go, BTN2Go ("Big Ten Network") and from popular Turner networks to its Online offerings.   Charter intends to expand its Online capabilities and to continue to add content in 2012.  We also offer a free search and discovery tool which organizes video content already available online through Charter.net such as HBO Go and EPIX with online content from sites such as Netflix, Amazon and Hulu into a single online directory which, we believe, makes it easier for customers to find what they want regardless of the source.



Internet Services



In2011, residential Internet services represented approximately 24% of our total revenues.We completed the roll out of DOCSIS 3.0 to 93% of our homes passed in 2011, allowing us to offer several tiers of Internet services with speeds up to 100 megabytes per second download to our residential customers.  Our Internet services also include our Internet portal, Charter.net, which provides multiple e-mail addresses, as well as variety of content and media from local, national and international providers including entertainment, games, news and sports.  We also offer home networking gateways to our Internet customers permitting our customers to wirelessly connect up to five devices within a home.  Charter launched its Cloud Drive product in 2011 which provides for on-line storage and back up of customer files and permits customers to access such files remotely at anytime.



Accelerated growth in the number of IP devices and bandwidth used in homes has created a need for faster speeds and greater reliability.  Charter is focused on providing services to fill those needs.  In 2011, we focused on promoting and leveraging our structural broadband advantage to create new customer relationships.  Charter's Internet service received top rankings from PC Magazine and high marks from the FCC in speed testing in 2011.



Telephone Services



In2011, residential telephone services represented approximately 12% of our total revenues.  We provide voice communications services primarily using VoIP technology to transmit digital voice signals over our systems.  Charter Telephone includes unlimited nationwide and in-state calling, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other features.  Charter Telephone® also provides international calling either by the minute or in a package of 250 minutes per month.



Commercial Services



In2011, commercial services represented approximately 8% of our total revenues.  Commercial services offered through Charter Business, include scalable broadband communications solutions for businesses and carrier organizations of all sizes such as Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video entertainment services and business telephone services.



•Small Business.Charter offers small businesses (1 - 19 employees) services similar to our residential offerings including  a full range of video programming tiers and music services, coax Internet speeds up to 100 Mbps downstream and up to 5 Mbps upstream in its DOCSIS 3.0 markets, a set of business cloud services including web hosting, e-mail and security, and multi-line telephone services with a rich set of  more than 30 business features including web-based service management.














•Medium Business.In addition to its other offerings, Charter also offers medium sized businesses (20-199 employees) more complex products such as fiber Internet with symmetrical speeds of up to 1 Gbps and voice trunking services such as primary rate interface (“PRI”) and Session Initiation Protocol ("SIP") Trunks which provide higher-capacity voice services delivered via fiber optic connection.   Charter also offers Metro Ethernet service that connects two or more locations for commercial customers with geographically dispersed locations with speeds up to 10 Gbps.  Metro Ethernet service can also extend the reach of the customer's local area network or “LAN” within and between metropolitan areas.



•Large Business.Charter offers large businesses (200+ employees) with multiple sites more specialized solutions such as custom fiber networks, Metro and long haul Ethernet, PRI and SIP Trunk services.



•Carrier Wholesale.Charter offers high-capacity last-mile to wireless and wireline telephone providers, Internet service providers and competitive carriers on a wholesale basis.



Sale of Advertising



In2011, sales of advertising represented approximately 4% of our total revenues.  We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising on satellite-delivered networks such as MTV®, CNN® and ESPN®.  In any particular market, we generally insert local advertising on up to 40 channels.  We also provide cross-channel advertising to some programmers.  In addition, we sell advertising on our Internet portal, Charter.net.  In most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force, however in some cases, we enter into representation agreements with contiguous cable system operators under which another operator in the area will sell advertising on our behalf for a percentage of the revenue.  In some markets, we sell advertising on behalf of other operators.



Charter has deployed Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format (“EBIF”) technology to set top boxes in select service areas within the Charter footprint.  EBIF is a technology foundation that will allow Charter to deliver enhanced and interactive television applications and enable our video customers to use their remote control to interact with their television programming and its advertisements.  EBIF will enable Charter’s customers to request such items as coupons, samples, and brochures from advertisers and also will enable advertisers to reach audiences in new ways.



From time to time, certain of our vendors, including programmers and equipment vendors, have purchased advertising from us.  For the years endingDecember 31, 2011,2010and2009, we had advertising revenues from vendors of approximately $51 million, $46 million and $41 million, respectively.  These revenues resulted from purchases at market rates pursuant to binding agreements.



Pricing of Our Products and Services



Our revenues are derived principally from the monthly fees customers pay for the services we provide.  We typically charge a one-time installation fee which is sometimes waived or discounted during certain promotional periods.  The prices we charge for our products and services vary based on the level of service the customer chooses and the geographic market.  In accordance with FCC rules, the prices we charge for video cable-related equipment, such as set-top boxes and remote control devices, and for installation services, are based on actual costs plus a permitted rate of return in regulated markets.



We offer reduced-price service for promotional periods in order to attract new customers, to promote the bundling of two or more services and to retain existing customers.  We often also offer a two-year price guarantee to our customers. There is no assurance that these customers will remain as customers or at the regular price when the promotional pricing period expires.  When customers bundle services, generally the prices are lower per service than if they had only purchased a single service.  Approximately 62% of our customers subscribe to a bundle of services.



Our Network Technology



Our network includes three components: the national backbone, regional/metro core and the "last-mile."  Both our national backbone and regional/metro core components utilize or plan to utilize a redundant Internet Protocol ("IP”) ring architecture with the capability to differentiate quality of service for each residential or commercial product offering.  The national backbone provides connectivity from the master headends to nationally centralized content, connectivity and services such as HD programming, voice interexchange points and Internet interexchange points.  The regional/metro core components provide connectivity between the master headends and headends within a specific geographic area and enable the delivery of content and services between these network components.












Our last-mile component utilizes the hybrid fiber coaxial cable (“HFC”) architecture, which combines the use of fiber optic cable with coaxial cable.  In most systems, we deliver our signals via fiber optic cable from the headend to a group of nodes, and use coaxial cable to deliver the signal from individual nodes to the homes passed served by that node. For our fiber Internet, Ethernet, carrier wholesale, SIP and PRI commercial customers, fiber optic cable is extended from the individual nodes all the way to the customer's site.  On average, our system design enables up to 400 homes passed to be served by a single node and provides for six strands of fiber to each node, with two strands activated and four strands reserved for spares and future services.  We believe that this hybrid network design provides high capacity and signal quality.  The design also provides two-way signal capacity for the addition of further interactive services.



HFC architecture benefits include:



•bandwidth capacity to enable traditional and two-way video and broadband services;

•dedicated bandwidth for two-way services, which avoids return signal interference problems that can occur with two-way communication capability; and

•signal quality and high service reliability.



Approximately 98% of our homes passed are served by systems that have bandwidth of 550 megahertz or greater and are two-way activated at December 31, 2011.  This bandwidth capacity enables us to offer digital television, Internet services, telephone service and other advanced video services.



As ofDecember 31, 2011, we have deployed DOCSIS 3.0 wideband technology to 93% of our homes passed allowing us to offer faster high-speed Internet service.  We have also deployed SDV technology to accommodate the increasing demands for greater capacity in our network.  SDV technology expands network capacity by transmitting only those digital and HD video channels that are being watched within a given grouping of homes at any given time which allows us to expand bandwidth for additional services.  As ofDecember 31, 2011, 86% of our homes passed received some portion of their video service via SDV technology.



Management, Customer Care and Marketing



Our corporate office is responsible for coordinating and overseeing operations including establishing company-wide policies and procedures.  The corporate office performs certain financial and administrative functions on a centralized basis and performs these services on a cost reimbursement basis pursuant to a management services agreement with one of our subsidiaries.  Our field operations are managed by geographic areas with shared service centers for our field sales and marketing function, human resources and training function, finance, and certain areas of customer operations.



Charter continues to focus on improving the customer experience through improvements to our customer care processes, product offerings and the quality and reliability of our service.  Our customer care centers are managed centrally.  We have eight internal customer care locations including our “centers of excellence” which route calls to the appropriate agents, plus several third-party call center locations that through technology and procedures functions as an integrated system.  We also utilize our website to enable our customers to view and pay their bills online, obtain information regarding their account or services, and perform various equipment troubleshooting procedures.  Our customers may also obtain support through our on-line chat and e-mail functionality.  We are also focusing on improving the reliability and technical quality of our plant to avoid repeat trouble calls, which has resulted in reductions in the number of service-related calls to our care centers and in the number of trouble call truck rolls in 2011 versus 2010.



Our marketing strategy emphasizes our bundled services through targeted marketing programs to existing and potential customers and increases awareness and value of the Charter brand.  Marketing expenditures increased by $18 million, or 8%, over the year endedDecember 31, 2010to $257 million for the year endedDecember 31, 2011.  Our marketing organization creates and executes marketing programs intended to increase customers, retain existing customers and cross-sell additional products to current customers.  We monitor the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, customer perception, competition, pricing, and service preferences, among other factors, to increase our responsiveness to our customers.



Programming



General



We believe that offering a wide variety of programming influences a customer’s decision to subscribe to and retain our cable services.  We rely on market research, customer demographics and local programming preferences to determine channel offerings










in each of our markets.  We obtain basic and premium programming from a number of suppliers, usually pursuant to written contracts.  Our programming contracts generally continue for a fixed period of time, usually from three to ten years, and are subject to negotiated renewal.  Some programming suppliers offer financial incentives to support the launch of a channel and/or ongoing marketing support.  We also negotiate volume discount pricing structures.  We have more recently negotiated for more content rights allowing us to provide programming on-line to our authenticated customers.  Programming costs are usually payable each month based on calculations performed by us and are generally subject to annual cost escalations and audits by the programmers.



Costs



Programming is usually made available to us for a license fee, which is generally paid based on the number of customers to whom we make such programming available.  Such license fees may include “volume” discounts available for higher numbers of customers, as well as discounts for channel placement or service penetration.  Some channels are available without cost to us for a limited period of time, after which we pay for the programming.  For home shopping channels, we receive a percentage of the revenue attributable to our customers’ purchases, as well as, in some instances, incentives for channel placement.



Our programming costs have increased in every year we have operated in excess of customary inflationary and cost-of-living type increases.  We expect them to continue to increase due to a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation and additional programming, including new sports services and non-linear programming for on-line and OnDemand programming. In particular, sports programming costs have increased significantly over the past several years.  In addition, contracts to purchase sports programming sometimes provide for optional additional games to be added to the service and made available on a surcharge basis during the term of the contract.



Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime.  When a station opts for the retransmission-consent regime, we are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission.  Continuing demands by owners of broadcast stations for cash payments at substantial increases over amounts paid in prior years in exchange for retransmission consent will likely increase our programming costs or require us to cease carriage of popular programming, potentially leading to a loss of customers in affected markets.



Over the past several years, increases in our video service rates have not fully offset increasing programming costs, and with the impact of increasing competition and other marketplace factors, we do not expect them to do so in the foreseeable future.  Although in 2010, we began passing along a portion of amounts paid for retransmission consent to the majority of our customers, our inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our video customers has had and is expected in the future to have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.



In order to mitigate reductions of our operating margins due to rapidly increasing programming costs, we continue to review our pricing and programming packaging strategies, and we plan to continue to migrate certain program services from our basic level of service to our digital tiers and limit the launch of non-essential, new networks.  As we migrate our programming to our digital tier packages, certain programming that was previously available to all of our customers via an analog signal may only be part of an elective digital tier package offered to our customers for an additional fee.  As a result, we expect that the customer base upon which we pay programming fees will proportionately decrease, and the overall expense for providing that service will also decrease.  However, reductions in the size of certain programming customer bases may result in the loss of specific volume discount benefits.



We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2012.  We will seek to renegotiate the terms of these agreements.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which may result in a loss of customers.



Franchises



As ofDecember 31, 2011, our systems operated pursuant to a total of approximately 3,100 franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by local and state governmental authorities.  Such governmental authorities often must approve a transfer to another party.  Most franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material breach.  In addition, most franchises require us to pay the granting authority a franchise fee of up to 5.0% of revenues as defined in the various agreements, which is the maximum amount that may be charged under the applicable federal law.  We are entitled to and generally do pass this fee through to the customer.












Prior to the scheduled expiration of most franchises, we generally initiate renewal proceedings with the granting authorities.  This process usually takes three years but can take a longer period of time.  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), which is the primary federal statute regulating interstate communications, provides for an orderly franchise renewal process in which granting authorities may not unreasonably withhold renewals.  In connection with the franchise renewal process, many governmental authorities require the cable operator to make certain commitments, such as building out certain of the franchise areas, customer service requirements, and supporting and carrying public access channels.  Historically we have been able to renew our franchises without incurring significant costs, although any particular franchise may not be renewed on commercially favorable terms or otherwise.  Our failure to obtain renewals of our franchises, especially those in the major metropolitan areas where we have the most customers, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or our liquidity, including our ability to comply with our debt covenants.  See “— Regulation and Legislation — Video Services — Franchise Matters.”



Competition



We face competition for both residential and commercial customers in the areas of price, service offerings, and service reliability.  We compete with other providers of video, high-speed Internet access, telephone services, and other sources of home entertainment.  We operate in a very competitive business environment, which can adversely affect the results of our business and operations.  We cannot predict the impact on us of broadband services offered by our competitors.



In terms of competition for customers, we view ourselves as a member of the broadband communications industry, which encompasses multi-channel video for television and related broadband services, such as high-speed Internet, telephone, and other interactive video services.  In the broadband communications industry, our principal competitors for video services is direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) and telephone companies.  Our principal competitor for high-speed Internet services is DSL service and high-speed Internet provided by telephone companies.  Our principal competitors for telephone services are established telephone companies, other telephone service providers, and other carriers, including VoIP providers.  At this time, we do not consider other cable operators to be significant competitors in our overall market, as overbuilds are infrequent and geographically spotty (although in any particular market, a cable operator overbuilder would likely be a significant competitor at the local level).    We could, however, face additional competition from multi-channel video providers if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories.



Our key competitors include:



DBS



Direct broadcast satellite is a significant competitor to cable systems.  The two largest DBS providers now serve more than 33 million subscribers nationwide.  DBS service allows the subscriber to receive video services directly via satellite using a dish antenna.





Telephone Companies and Utilities



Telephone companies, including AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”) and Verizon Communications, Inc. ("Verizon"), offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to ours.  In the case of Verizon, high-speed data










services (fiber optic service (“FiOS”)) offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on internal estimates, we believe that AT&T and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately 31% to 34% and 3% to 4%, respectively, of our estimated homes passed as ofDecember 31, 2011and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the multiple dwelling unit (“MDU”) market.  Additional upgrades and product launches are expected in markets in which we operate.



In addition to telephone companies obtaining franchises or alternative authorizations in some areas, and seeking them in others, they have been successful through various means in reducing or streamlining the franchising requirements applicable to them.  They have had significant success at the federal and state level in securing FCC rulings and numerous statewide franchise laws that facilitate telephone company entry into the video marketplace.  Because telephone companies have been successful in avoiding or reducing franchise and other regulatory requirements that remain applicable to cable operators like us, their competitive posture has often been enhanced.  The large scale entry of major telephone companies as direct competitors in the video marketplace has adversely affected the profitability and valuation of our cable systems.



Most telephone companies, which already have plant, an existing customer base, and other operational functions in place (such as billing and service personnel), offer DSL service.  DSL service allows Internet access to subscribers at data transmission speeds greater than those formerly available over conventional telephone lines.  We believe DSL service is competitive with high-speed Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although typically at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  However one DSL provider, Century Link, offers DSL services in approximately 12% of our homes passed with speeds comparable to our lower speed tiers.  DSL providers may currently be in a better position to offer telephone and data services to businesses since their networks tend to be more complete in commercial areas.  We expect DSL to remain a significant competitor to our high-speed Internet services.  In addition, the continuing deployment of fiber optics into telephone companies’ networks (primarily by Verizon) will enable them to provide even higher bandwidth Internet services.



Our telephone service competes directly with established telephone companies and other carriers, including Internet-based VoIP providers, for both residential and commercial voice service customers.  Because we offer voice services, we are subject to considerable competition from telephone companies and other telecommunications providers, including wireless providers with an increasing number of consumers choosing wireless over wired telephone services.  The telecommunications and voice services industry is highly competitive and includes competitors with greater financial and personnel resources, strong brand name recognition, and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Moreover, mergers, joint ventures and alliances among our competitors have resulted in providers capable of offering cable television, Internet, and telephone services in direct competition with us.



Additionally, we are subject to limited competition from utilities that possess fiber optic transmission lines capable of transmitting signals with minimal signal distortion.  Certain utilities are also developing broadband over power line technology, which may allow the provision of Internet and other broadband services to homes and offices.



Traditional Overbuilds



Cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises historically granted by state and local authorities.  More than one cable system may legally be built in the same area.  It is possible that a franchising authority might grant a second franchise to another cable operator and that such franchise might contain terms and conditions more favorable than those afforded us.  Well-financed businesses from outside the cable industry, such as public utilities that already possess fiber optic and other transmission lines in the areas they serve, may over time become competitors.  There are a number of cities that have constructed their own cable systems, in a manner similar to city-provided utility services.  There also has been interest in traditional cable overbuilds by private companies not affiliated with established local exchange carriers.  Constructing a competing cable system is a capital intensive process which involves a high degree of risk.  We believe that in order to be successful, a competitor’s overbuild would need to be able to serve the homes and businesses in the overbuilt area with equal or better service quality, on a more cost-effective basis than we can.  Any such overbuild operation would require access to capital or access to facilities already in place that are capable of delivering cable television programming.



As ofDecember 31, 2011, excluding telephone companies, we are aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting approximately 8% to 9% of our total homes passed and potential traditional overbuild situations in areas servicing approximately an additional 2% of our total homes passed.  Additional overbuild situations may occur.












Broadcast Television



Cable television has long competed with broadcast television, which consists of television signals that the viewer is able to receive without charge using an “off-air” antenna.  The extent of such competition is dependent upon the quality and quantity of broadcast signals available through “off-air” reception, compared to the services provided by the local cable system.  Traditionally, cable television has provided higher picture quality and more channel offerings than broadcast television.  However, the recent licensing of digital spectrum by the FCC now provides traditional broadcasters with the ability to deliver HD television pictures and multiple digital-quality program streams, as well as advanced digital services such as subscription video and data transmission.



Internet Delivered Video



Internet access facilitates the streaming of video, including movies and television shows, into homes and businesses.  Increasingly, content owners are using Internet-based delivery of content directly to consumers, some without charging a fee to access the content.  Further, due to consumer electronic innovations, consumers are able to watch such Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices.  We believe some customers have chosen to receive video over the Internet rather than through our VOD and premium video services, thereby reducing our video revenues.  We can not predict the impact that Internet delivered video will have on our revenues and adjusted EBITDA as technologies continue to evolve.



Private Cable



Additional competition is posed by satellite master antenna television systems, or SMATV systems, serving MDUs, such as condominiums, apartment complexes, and private residential communities.  Private cable systems can offer improved reception of local television stations, and many of the same satellite-delivered program services that are offered by cable systems.  Although disadvantaged from a programming cost perspective, SMATV systems currently benefit from operating advantages not available to franchised cable systems, including fewer regulatory burdens and no requirement to service low density or economically depressed communities.  The FCC previously adopted regulations that favor SMATV and private cable operators serving MDU complexes, allowing them to continue to secure exclusive contracts with MDU owners.  This regulatory disparity provides a competitive advantage to certain of our current and potential competitors.



Other Competitors



Local wireless Internet services operate in some markets using available unlicensed radio spectrum.  Various wireless phone companies are now offering third and fourth generation (3G and 4G) wireless high-speed Internet services. In addition, a growing number of commercial areas, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi Internet service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and WiMAX Internet access networks.  Operators are also marketing PC cards and “personal hotspots” offering wireless broadband access to their cellular networks.  These service options offer another alternative to cable-based Internet access.



Regulation and Legislation



The following summary addresses the key regulatory and legislative developments affecting the cable industry and our three primary services for both residential and commercial customers: video service, Internet service, and telephone service.  Cable system operations are extensively regulated by the federal government (primarily the FCC), certain state governments, and many local governments.  A failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial penalties.  Our business can be dramatically impacted by changes to the existing regulatory framework, whether triggered by legislative, administrative, or judicial rulings.  Congress and the FCC have frequently revisited the subject of communications regulation and they are likely to do so again in the future.  We could be materially disadvantaged in the future if we are subject to new regulations that do not equally impact our key competitors.  We cannot provide assurance that the already extensive regulation of our business will not be expanded in the future.



VideoService



Cable Rate Regulation.The cable industry has operated under a federal rate regulation regime for approximately two decades.  The regulations currently restrict the prices that cable systems charge for the minimum level of video programming service, referred to as “basic service,” and associated equipment.  All other video service offerings are now universally exempt from rate regulation.  Although basic service rate regulation operates pursuant to a federal formula, local governments, commonly referred to as local franchising authorities, are primarily responsible for administering this regulation.  The majority of our local franchising authorities










have never been certified to regulate basic service cable rates (and order rate reductions and refunds), but they generally retain the right to do so (subject to potential regulatory limitations under state franchising laws), except in those specific communities facing “effective competition,” as defined under federal law.  We have secured FCC recognition of effective competition, and become rate deregulated in many of our communities.



There have been frequent calls to impose expanded rate regulation on the cable industry.  Confronted with rapidly increasing cable programming costs, it is possible that Congress may adopt new constraints on the retail pricing or packaging of cable programming.  For example, there has been legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically combined programming services on an à la carte basis. Any such mandate could adversely affect our operations.



Federal rate regulations include certain marketing restrictions that could affect our pricing and packaging of service tiers and equipment.  As we attempt to respond to a changing marketplace with competitive pricing practices, we may face regulations that impede our ability to compete.



Must Carry/Retransmission Consent.There are two alternative legal methods for carriage of local broadcast television stations on cable systems.  Federal “must carry” regulations require cable systems to carry local broadcast television stations upon the request of the local broadcaster.  Alternatively, federal law includes “retransmission consent” regulations, by which popular commercial television stations can prohibit cable carriage unless the cable operator first negotiates for “retransmission consent,” which may be conditioned on significant payments or other concessions.  Broadcast stations must elect “must carry” or “retransmission consent” every three years, with the election date of October 1, 2009, for the current period of 2012 through 2014.  Either option has a potentially adverse effect on our business by utilizing bandwidth capacity.  In addition, popular stations invoking “retransmission consent” have been demanding substantial compensation increases in their negotiations with cable operators.



In September 2007, the FCC adopted an order increasing the cable industry’s must-carry obligations by requiring most cable operators to offer “must carry” broadcast signals in both analog and digital format (dual carriage).  This requirement, which does not currently include any obligation to carry multiple program streams included within a single digital broadcast transmission (multicast carriage), is scheduled to expire in June 2012, but may be extended by the FCC.    Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage obligations could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer services that appeal to our customers and generate revenues.



Access Channels.Local franchise agreements often require cable operators to set aside certain channels for public, educational, and governmental access programming.  Federal law also requires cable systems to designate a portion of their channel capacity for commercial leased access by unaffiliated third parties, who may offer programming that our customers do not particularly desire.  The FCC adopted new rules in 2007 mandating a significant reduction in the rates that operators can charge commercial leased access users and imposing additional administrative requirements that would be burdensome on the cable industry.  The effect of the FCC's new rules was stayed by a federal court, pending a cable industry appeal and an adverse finding by the Office of Management and Budget.  Under federal statute, commercial leased access programmers are entitled to use up to 15% of a cable system's capacity.  Although commercial leased access activity historically has been relatively limited, increased activity in this area could further burden the channel capacity of our cable systems, and potentially limit the amount of services we are able to offer and may necessitate further investments to expand our network capacity.



Access to Programming.The Communications Act and the FCC's “program access” rules generally prevent satellite cable programming networks in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from favoring cable operators over competing multichannel video distributors, such as DBS, and limit the ability of such vendors to offer exclusive programming arrangements to cable operators.  This exclusivity prohibition is scheduled to expire in October 2012, but the FCC has extended it in the past and may do so again.  Given the heightened competition and media consolidation that we face, it is possible that we will find it increasingly difficult to gain access to popular programming at favorable terms.  Such difficulty could adversely impact our business.



Ownership Restrictions.Federal regulation of the communications field traditionally included a host of ownership restrictions, which limited the size of certain media entities and restricted their ability to enter into competing enterprises.  Through a series of legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions, most of these restrictions have been either eliminated or substantially relaxed.  Changes in this regulatory area could alter the business environment in which we operate.



Pole Attachments.The Communications Act requires most utilities owning utility poles to provide cable systems with access to poles and conduits and simultaneously subjects the rates charged for this access to either federal or state regulation.  On April 7, 2011, the FCC amended its existing pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment.  The new order maintains the basic rate formula applicable to “cable” attachments, but reduces the rate formula previously applicable to “telecommunications”










attachments to make it roughly equivalent to the more favorable “cable” attachment rate.  Although the new order maintains the status quo treatment of cable-provided VoIP service as an unclassified service eligible for the favorable cable rate, there is still some uncertainty in this area.  The new order allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments, but it generally strengthens the cable industry's ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms, and conditions.  Several electric utilities have, however, sought review of the new order at the FCC and in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, and another May 2011 FCC order restricting pole attachment rates has also been appealed to the same court.  The outcome of these cases could impact the pole attachment rates we pay utility companies.



Cable Equipment.In 1996, Congress enacted a statute requiring the FCC to adopt regulations designed to assure the development of an independent retail market for “navigation devices,” such as cable set-top boxes.  As a result, the FCC generally requires cable operators to make a separate offering of security modules (i.e., a “CableCARD”) that can be used with retail navigation devices, and to use these separate security modules even in their own set-top boxes.  The FCC’s National Broadband Plan acknowledges that the existing CableCARD rules have not resulted in a competitive retail market for navigation devices.  In response to this finding, the FCC commenced a proceeding in April 2010 to adopt standards for a successor technology to CableCARD that would involve the development of smart video devices that are compatible with any multichannel video programming distributorservice in the United States.  In October 2010, the FCC adopted new interim CableCARD rules applicable until a successor solution emerges.  The new rules require cable operators to allow customers to self-install CableCARDs.  They also require cable operators to provide and advertise a reasonable discount if subscribers use their own equipment, rather than using the operator-provided equipment otherwise included in a bundled package.  The FCC’s actions in this area could impose additional costs on us and affect our ability to innovate.



MDUs / Inside Wiring.  The FCC has adopted a series of regulations designed to spur competition to established cable operators in MDU complexes.  These regulations allow our competitors to access certain existing cable wiring inside MDUs.  The FCC also adopted regulations limiting the ability of established cable operators, like us, to enter into exclusive service contracts for MDU complexes.  In their current form, the FCC’s regulations in this area favor our competitors.



Privacyand Information Security Regulation.  The Communications Act limits our ability to collect and disclose subscribers’ personally identifiable information for our video, telephone, and high-speed Internet services, as well as provides requirements to safeguard such information.  We are subject to additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations that impose additional subscriber and employee privacy restrictions.  Further, the FCC, FTC, and many states regulate and restrict the marketing practices of cable operators, including telemarketing and online marketing efforts. Various federal agencies, including the FTC, are now considering new restrictions affecting the use of personal and profiling data for online advertising.



Our operations are also subject to federal and state laws governing information security, including rules requiring customer notification in the event of an information security breach.  Congress is considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business.



Other FCC Regulatory Matters.FCC regulations cover a variety of additional areas, including, among other things: (1) equal employment opportunity obligations; (2) customer service standards; (3) technical service standards; (4) mandatory blackouts of certain network, syndicated and sports programming; (5) restrictions on political advertising; (6) restrictions on advertising in children's programming; (7) restrictions on origination cablecasting; (8) restrictions on carriage of lottery programming; (9) sponsorship identification obligations; (10) closed captioning of video programming; (11) licensing of systems and facilities; (12) maintenance of public files; (13) emergency alert systems; and (14) disability access, including new requirements governing video-description and closed-captioning.  Each of these regulations restricts our business practices to varying degrees.



It is possible that Congress or the FCC will expand or modify its regulation of cable systems in the future, and we cannot predict at this time how that might impact our business.



Copyright.Cable systems are subject to a federal copyright compulsory license covering carriage of television and radio broadcast signals.  The possible modification or elimination of this compulsory copyright license is the subject of continuing legislative and administrative review and could adversely affect our ability to obtain desired broadcast programming.  Pursuant to the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010, the Copyright Office, the Government Accountability Office and the FCC all issued reports to Congress in 2011 that generally support an eventual phase-out of the compulsory licenses, although they also acknowledge the potential adverse impact on cable subscribers and the absence of any clear marketplace alternative to the compulsory license.  If adopted, a phase-out plan could adversely affect our ability to obtain certain programming and substantially increase our programming costs.



Copyright clearances for non-broadcast programming services are arranged through private negotiations.  Cable operators also










must obtain music rights for locally originated programming and advertising from the major music performing rights organizations.  These licensing fees have been the source of litigation in the past, and we cannot predict with certainty whether license fee disputes may arise in the future.



Franchise Matters.



The traditional cable franchising regime is undergoing significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  In a series of rulemakings, the FCC has adopted rules that streamlined entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduced certain franchising burdens for these new entrants.  The FCC adopted more modest relief for existing cable operators.



At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws.  Again, these laws were principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing cable operators.  In many instances, these franchising regimes do not apply to established cable operators until the existing franchise expires or a competitor directly enters the franchise territory.  The exact nature of these state franchising laws, and their varying application to new and existing video providers, will impact our franchising obligations and our competitive position.



Internet Service





As the Internet has matured, it has become the subject of increasing regulatory interest.  Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures directly or potentially affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer privacy, copyright protections, defamation liability, taxation, obscenity, and unsolicited commercial e-mail.  Content owners are now seeking additional legal mechanisms to combat copyright infringement over the Internet.  Pending and future legislation in this area could adversely affect our operations as an Internet service provider and our relationship with our Internet customers.  Additionally, the FCC and Congress are considering subjecting Internet access services to the Universal Service funding requirements.  These funding requirements could impose significant new costs on our high-speed Internet service.  State and local governmental organizations have also adopted Internet-related regulations.  These various governmental jurisdictions are also considering additional regulations in these and other areas, such as privacy, pricing, service and product quality, and taxation.  The adoption of new Internet regulations or the adaptation of existing laws to the Internet could adversely affect our business.












Telephone Service







Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2011, we had approximately 16,800 full-time equivalent employees.  AtDecember 31, 2011, approximately 60 of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements.  We have never experienced a work stoppage.





