Item 1.Business.



Introduction



Charter
Communications, Inc. ("Charter") is among the largest providers of cable
services in the United States, offering a variety of entertainment, information
and communications solutions to residential and commercial customers in 27
states. Charter operates in a heavily regulated industry pursuant to various
franchises from local and state governments and licenses granted by state and
federal governments including the Federal Communications Commission (the
“FCC”).  Our infrastructure consists of a hybrid of fiber and coaxial
cable plant passing approximately 11.9 million homes, through which we offer our
residential and commercial customers traditional video cable programming,
high-speed Internet access, advanced broadband cable services (such as high
definition television, OnDemand™ (“OnDemand”) video programming and digital
video recorder (“DVR”) service) and telephone service.  See "Item 1.
Business — Products and Services" for further description of these terms and
services, including "customers."



As of
December 31, 2009, we served approximately 5.3 million customers.  We
served approximately 4.8 million video customers, of which approximately 67%
were digital video customers.  We also served approximately 3.1
million high-speed Internet customers and we provided telephone service to
approximately 1.6 million customers.  We sell our cable video
programming, high-speed Internet and telephone services primarily on a
subscription basis, often in a bundle of two or more services, providing savings
and convenience to our customers.  Approximately 57% of our customers
subscribe to a bundle of services.



Through
Charter Business®, we provide scalable, tailored broadband communications
solutions to business organizations, such as business-to-business Internet
access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers, video and music
entertainment services and business telephone.  As of December 31,
2009, we served approximately 224,300 business customers, including small- and
medium-sized commercial customers.



Charter
is a holding company whose principal asset is a controlling common equity
interest in Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC (“Charter
Holdco”).  Charter Holdco is the sole owner of our subsidiaries where
the underlying operations reside, which are collectively referred to herein as
the “Company.”  All significant intercompany accounts and transactions
among consolidated entities have been eliminated.



We have a
history of net losses.  Our net losses were principally attributable to
insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses and interest
expenses we incurred because of our debt, impairment of franchises and
depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made and
continue to make in our cable properties.  As discussed below, we emerged
from bankruptcy protection on November 30, 2009 and reduced our debt by
approximately $8 billion, reducing our interest expense by approximately $830
million annually.



Our
principal executive offices are located at Charter Plaza, 12405 Powerscourt
Drive, St. Louis, Missouri 63131.  Our telephone number is (314)
965-0555, and we have a website accessible at www.charter.com.  Since
January 1, 2002, our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports
on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, have been made available on our
website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been
filed.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into
this annual report.



Bankruptcy
Proceedings and Recent Events



On
March 27, 2009, we and certain affiliates (collectively, the “Debtors”)
filed voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern
District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”), to reorganize under Chapter 11 of
the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”).  The
Chapter 11 cases were jointly administered under the captionIn re Charter Communications, Inc.,
et al., Case No. 09-11435.  On May 7, 2009, we filed a Joint
Plan of Reorganization (the "Plan") and a related disclosure statement (the
“Disclosure Statement”) with the Bankruptcy Court.  The Plan was
confirmed by order of the Bankruptcy Court on November 17, 2009 (“Confirmation
Order”), and became effective on November 30, 2009 (the “Effective Date”), the
date on which we emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy
Code.



As
provided in the Plan and the Confirmation Order, (i) the notes and bank debt of
Charter Communications Operating, LLC (“Charter Operating”) and CCO Holdings,
LLC (“CCO Holdings”) remained outstanding; (ii) holders of approximately $1.5
billion of notes issued by CCH II, LLC (“CCH II”) received new CCH II notes (the








“Notes
Exchange”); (iii) holders of notes issued by CCH I, LLC (“CCH I”) received 21.1
million shares of new Charter Class A common stock;  (iv) holders of
notes issued by CCH I Holdings, LLC (“CIH”) received 6.4 million warrants to
purchase shares of new Charter Class A common stock with an exercise price of
$46.86 per share that expire five years from the date of issuance; (v) holders
of notes issued by Charter Communications Holdings, LLC (“Charter Holdings”)
received 1.3 million warrants to purchase shares of new Charter Class A common
stock with an exercise price of $51.28 per share that expire five years from the
date of issuance; (vi) holders of convertible notes issued by Charter received
$25 million and 5.5 million shares of preferred stock issued by Charter; and
(vii) all previously outstanding shares of Charter Class A and Class B common
stock were cancelled.  In addition, as part of the Plan, the holders
of CCH I notes received and transferred to Mr. Paul G. Allen, Charter’s
principal stockholder, $85 million of new CCH II notes.



The
consummation of the Plan was funded with cash on hand, the Notes Exchange, and
net proceeds of approximately $1.6 billion of an equity rights offering (the
“Rights Offering”) in which holders of CCH I notes purchased new Charter
Class A common stock.





On
January 22, 2010, we announced that our President and Chief Executive Officer,
Neil Smit, would resign effective February 28, 2010 and our Chief Operating
Officer, Michael J. Lovett, would assume the additional title of Interim
President and Chief Executive Officer at that time.



The terms
“Charter,” “we,” “our” and “us,” when used in this report with respect to the
period prior to Charter’s emergence from bankruptcy, are references to the
Debtors (“Predecessor”) and, when used with respect to the period commencing
after Charter’s emergence, are references to Charter (“Successor”). These
references include the subsidiaries of Predecessor or Successor, as the case may
be, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise.








Corporate
Entity Structure



The chart
below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect
subsidiaries.  This chart does not include all of our affiliates and
subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for
presentation purposes.  The equity ownership and voting percentages
shown below are approximations as of February 15, 2010, and do not give effect
to any exercise of then outstanding warrants.  Indebtedness amounts
shown below are principal amounts as of December 31, 2009.  See Note 8
to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which also includes the accreted
values of the indebtedness described below.


















Charter
Communications, Inc.Charter owns 100% of Charter
Holdco.  Charter Holdco, through its subsidiaries, owns cable systems
and certain strategic investments.  As sole manager under applicable
operating agreements, Charter controls the affairs of Charter Holdco and its
limited liability company subsidiaries.  In addition, Charter provides
management services to Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries under a management
services agreement.



Charter
Communications Holding Company, LLC.Charter Holdco, a Delaware limited
liability company formed on May 25, 1999, is the indirect 100% parent of
Charter’s subsidiaries including debt issuers and operating
subsidiaries.  At December 31, 2009, the common membership units of
Charter Holdco were owned approximately 99.81% by Charter and 0.19% by
CII.  All of the outstanding common membership units in Charter
Holdco, that were held by CII at December 31, 2009, were controlled by
Mr. Allen and were exchangeable at any time for shares of new Charter
Class A common stock.  On February 8, 2010, Mr. Allen exercised
his remaining right to exchange Charter Holdco units for shares of Class A
common stock after which Charter Holdco became 100% owned by
Charter.



Interim Holding
Company Debt Issuers.As indicated in the organizational chart
above, our interim holding company debt issuers indirectly own the subsidiaries
that own or operate all of our cable systems, subject to a CC VIII minority
interest held by CCH I as described below.  For a description of the
debt issued by these issuers please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Description of Our
Outstanding Debt.”



Preferred Equity
in CC VIII.At December 31, 2009, Charter owned 30% of the CC
VIII preferred membership interests.  CCH I, a direct subsidiary of
CIH and indirect subsidiary of Charter, directly owned the remaining 70% of
these preferred interests.  The common membership interests in CC VIII
are indirectly owned by Charter Operating.  See Note 11 to our
accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”



Products and
Services



Through
our hybrid fiber and coaxial cable network, we offer our customers traditional
cable video services (basic and digital, which we refer to as “video” services),
high-speed Internet services, and telephone services, as well as advanced
broadband services (such as OnDemand, high definition television, and DVR
service).  Our telephone services are primarily provided using voice
over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) technology, to transmit digital voice signals
over our systems.  Our video, high-speed Internet, and telephone
services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription
basis, with prices and related charges that vary primarily based on the types of
service selected, whether the services are sold as a “bundle” or on an
individual basis, and the equipment necessary to receive the services, with some
variation in prices.



The
following table approximates our customer statistics for video, residential
high-speed Internet and telephone as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.



Approximate
      as ofDecember
      31,December
      31,2009
      (a)2008
      (a)Residential
      (non-bulk) basic video customers (b)4,562,9004,779,000Multi-dwelling
      (bulk) and commercial unit customers (c)261,100257,400Total
      basic video customers (b) (c)4,824,0005,036,400Digital
      video customers (d)3,218,1003,133,400Residential
      high-speed Internet customers (e)3,062,3002,875,200Telephone
      customers (f)1,595,9001,348,800Total Revenue Generating Units(g)12,700,30012,393,800



After
giving effect to sales and acquisitions of cable systems in 2008 and 2009, basic
video customers, digital video customers, high-speed Internet customers, and
telephone customers would have been 5,024,000, 3,132,200, 2,875,600, and
1,348,800, respectively, as of December 31, 2008.



(a)Our
      billing systems calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the
      monthly billing cycle for each account.  On that basis, at
      December 31, 2009 and 2008, "customers" include approximately 25,900 and








36,000
      persons, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days past due in
      payment, approximately 3,500 and 5,300 persons, respectively, whose
      accounts were over 90 days past due in payment, and approximately 2,200
      and 2,700 persons, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days past
      due in payment.

(b)“Basic
      video customers” include all residential customers who receive video cable
      services.



(c)Included
      within "basic video customers" are those in commercial and multi-dwelling
      structures, which are calculated on an equivalent bulk unit (“EBU”)
      basis.  In the second quarter of 2009, we began calculating EBUs
      by dividing the bulk price charged to accounts in an area by the published
      rate charged to non-bulk residential customers in that market for the
      comparable tier of service rather than the most prevalent price charged as
      was used previously.  This EBU method of estimating basic video
      customers is consistent with the methodology used in determining costs
      paid to programmers and is consistent with the methodology used by other
      multiple system operators (“MSOs”).  EBUs presented as of
      December 31, 2008 decreased by 9,300 as a result of the change in
      methodology.  As we increase our published video rates to
      residential customers without a corresponding increase in the prices
      charged to commercial service or multi-dwelling customers, our EBU count
      will decline even if there is no real loss in commercial service or
      multi-dwelling customers.



(d)"Digital
      video customers" include all basic video customers that have one or more
      digital set-top boxes or cable cards
deployed.



(e)"Residential
      high-speed Internet customers" represent those residential customers who
      subscribe to our high-speed Internet
service.



(f)“Telephone
      customers” include all customers receiving telephone
    service.(g)"Revenue
      generating units" represent the sum total of all basic video, digital
      video, high-speed Internet and telephone customers, not counting
      additional outlets within one household.  For example, a
      customer who receives two types of service (such as basic video and
      digital video) would be treated as two revenue generating units and, if
      that customer added on high-speed Internet service, the customer would be
      treated as three revenue generating units.  This statistic is
      computed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Cable &
      Telecommunications Association
(“NCTA”).

Video
Services



In 2009,
video services represented approximately 51% of our total
revenues.  Our video service offerings include the
following:



•Basic
      Video.All of our video
      customers receive a package of basic programming which generally consists
      of local broadcast television, local community programming, including
      governmental and public access, and limited satellite-delivered or
      non-broadcast channels, such as weather, shopping and religious
      programming.  Our basic channel line-up generally has between 9
      and 35 channels.



•Expanded
      Basic Video.This expanded
      programming level includes a package of satellite-delivered or
      non-broadcast channels and generally has between 20 and 60 channels in
      addition to the basic channel line-up.



•Digital
      Video.We offer digital video services including a
      digital set-top box, an interactive electronic programming guide with
      parental controls, an expanded menu of pay-per-view channels, including
      OnDemand (available nearly everywhere), digital quality music channels and
      the option to also receive a cable card. In addition to video programming,
      digital video service enables customers to receive our advanced broadband
      services such as OnDemand, DVRs, and high definition television. 
      Charter also offers its digital sports tier in combination with premium
      sports content on charter.net.



•Premium
      Channels.These channels
      provide original programming, commercial-free movies, sports, and other
      special event entertainment programming.  Although we offer
      subscriptions to premium channels on an individual basis, we offer an
      increasing number of digital video channel packages and premium channel
      packages, and we offer premium channels combined with our advanced
      broadband services.



•Pay-Per-View.These channels
      allow customers to pay on a per event basis to view a single showing of a






recently
      released movie, a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or
      similar event on a commercial-free
basis.

•OnDemand
      and Subscription OnDemand.OnDemand service
      allows customers to select from hundreds of movies and other programming
      at any time.  These programming options may be accessed for a
      fee or, in some cases, for no additional charge.  In some areas
      we also offer subscription OnDemand for a monthly fee or included in a
      digital tier premium channel subscription.•High
      Definition Television.High definition
      television offers our digital customers certain video programming at a
      higher resolution to improve picture quality versus standard basic or
      digital video images.•Digital
      Video Recorder.DVR service enables customers to digitally record
      programming and to pause and rewind live
  programming.



High-Speed
Internet Services



In 2009,
residential high-speed Internet services represented approximately 22% of our
total revenues.  We currently offer several tiers of high-speed
Internet services with speeds ranging up to 60 megabytes per second download
speed to our residential customers via cable modems attached to personal
computers.  We also offer home networking gateways to these customers,
which permit customers to connect up to five computers in their home to the
Internet simultaneously.



Telephone
Services



In 2009,
telephone services represented approximately 10% of our total
revenues.  We provide voice communications services primarily using
VoIP technology to transmit digital voice signals over our
systems.  Charter Telephone includes unlimited nationwide and in-state
calling, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other
features.  Charter Telephone® also provides international calling
either by the minute or in a package of 250 minutes per month.



Commercial
Services



In 2009,
commercial services represented approximately 7% of our total
revenues.  Commercial services, offered through Charter Business™,
include scalable broadband communications solutions for business organizations,
such as business-to-business Internet access, data networking, video and music
entertainment services, and business telephone.



Sale
of Advertising



In 2009,
sales of advertising represented approximately 4% of our total
revenues.  We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising on
satellite-delivered networks such as MTV®, CNN® and ESPN®.  In any
particular market, we generally insert local advertising on up to 40
channels.  We also provide cross-channel advertising to some
programmers.



From time
to time, certain of our vendors, including programmers and equipment vendors,
have purchased advertising from us.  For the years ending December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007, we had advertising revenues from vendors of approximately
$41 million, $39 million, and $15 million, respectively.  These
revenues resulted from purchases at market rates pursuant to binding
agreements.



Pricing of Our Products and
Services



Our
revenues are derived principally from the monthly fees customers pay for the
services we offer.  We typically charge a one-time installation fee
which is sometimes waived or discounted during certain promotional
periods.  The prices we charge for our products and services vary
based on the level of service the customer chooses and the geographic
market.  In accordance with FCC rules, the prices we charge for video
cable-related equipment, such as set-top boxes and remote control devices, and
for installation services, are based on actual costs plus a permitted rate of
return in regulated markets.








We offer
reduced-price service for promotional periods in order to attract new customers,
to promote the bundling of two or more services and to retain existing
customers.  There is no assurance that these customers will remain as
customers when the promotional pricing period expires.  When customers
bundle services, generally the prices are lower per service than if they had
only purchased a single service.



Our Network
Technology



Our
network utilizes the hybrid fiber coaxial cable (“HFC”) architecture, which
combines the use of fiber optic cable with coaxial cable.  In most
systems, we deliver our signals via fiber optic cable from the headend to a
group of nodes, and use coaxial cable to deliver the signal from individual
nodes to the homes passed served by that node.  On average, our system
design enables up to 400 homes passed to be served by a single node and provides
for six strands of fiber to each node, with two strands activated and four
strands reserved for spares and future services.  We believe that this
hybrid network design provides high capacity and signal quality.  The
design also provides two-way signal capacity for the addition of future
services.



HFC
architecture benefits include:



•bandwidth
      capacity to enable traditional and two-way video and broadband
      services;•dedicated
      bandwidth for two-way services, which avoids return signal interference
      problems that can occur with two-way communication capability;
      and•signal
      quality and high service
reliability.



The
following table sets forth the technological capacity of our systems as of
December 31, 2009 based on a percentage of homes passed:



Less
      than 550550750860/870Two-waymegahertzmegahertzmegahertzmegahertzactivated4%5%45%46%96%



Approximately
96% of our homes passed are served by systems that have bandwidth of 550
megahertz or greater.  This bandwidth capacity enables us to offer
digital television, high-speed Internet services, telephone service and other
advanced services.



Through
system upgrades and divestitures of non-strategic systems, we have reduced the
number of headends that serve our customers from 1,138 at January 1, 2001
to 252 at December 31, 2009.  Headends are the control centers of
a cable system.  Reducing the number of headends reduces related
equipment, service personnel, and maintenance expenditures.  As of
December 31, 2009, approximately 92% of our customers were served by headends
serving at least 10,000 customers.



As of
December 31, 2009, our cable systems consisted of approximately 200,000
aerial and underground miles of coaxial cable, and approximately 55,000 aerial
and underground miles of fiber optic cable, passing approximately 11.9 million
households and serving approximately 5.3 million customers.



Charter
has built and activated a national transport backbone inter-connecting 95% of
Charter’s local and regional networks.  The backbone is highly
scalable enabling efficient and timely transport of Internet traffic, voice
traffic, and high definition video content distribution.



Management,
Customer Care and Marketing



Our
corporate office, which includes employees of Charter, is responsible for
coordinating and overseeing operations including establishing company-wide
policies and procedures.  The corporate office performs certain
financial and administrative functions on a centralized basis and performs these
services on a cost reimbursement basis pursuant to a management services
agreement.  Our field operations are managed within two operating
groups with shared service centers for our field sales and marketing function,
human resources and training function, finance, and certain areas of customer
operations.



Our
customer care centers are managed centrally.  We have eight internal
customer care locations plus several third-party call center locations that
through technology and procedures function as an integrated
system.  We provide








service
to our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  We also utilize
our website to enable our customers to view and pay their bills online, obtain
useful information, and perform various equipment troubleshooting
procedures.  Our customers may also obtain support through our on-line
chat and e-mail functionality.



Our
marketing strategy emphasizes our bundled services through targeted marketing
programs to existing and potential customers.  Marketing expenditures
increased by $4 million, or 1%, over the year ended December 31, 2008 to $272
million for the year ended December 31, 2009.  Our marketing
organization creates and executes marketing programs intended to increase
customer relationships, retain existing customers and cross-sell additional
products to current customers.  We monitor the effectiveness of our
marketing efforts, customer perception, competition, pricing, and service
preferences, among other factors, to increase our responsiveness to our
customers.



Programming



General



We
believe that offering a wide variety of programming influences a customer’s
decision to subscribe to and retain our cable services.  We rely on
market research, customer demographics and local programming preferences to
determine channel offerings in each of our markets.  We obtain basic
and premium programming from a number of suppliers, usually pursuant to written
contracts.  Our programming contracts generally continue for a fixed
period of time, usually from three to ten years, and are subject to negotiated
renewal.  Some programming suppliers offer financial incentives to
support the launch of a channel and/or ongoing marketing support.  We
also negotiate volume discount pricing structures.  Programming costs
are usually payable each month based on calculations performed by us and are
generally subject to annual cost escalations and audits by the
programmers.



Costs



Programming
is usually made available to us for a license fee, which is generally paid based
on the number of customers to whom we make such programming
available.  Such license fees may include “volume” discounts available
for higher numbers of customers, as well as discounts for channel placement or
service penetration.  Some channels are available without cost to us
for a limited period of time, after which we pay for the
programming.  For home shopping channels, we receive a percentage of
the revenue attributable to our customers’ purchases, as well as, in some
instances, incentives for channel placement.



Our cable
programming costs have increased in every year we have operated in excess of
customary inflationary and cost-of-living type increases.  We expect
them to continue to increase, and at a higher rate than in 2009, due to a
variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual
increases imposed by programmers and additional programming, including
high-definition and OnDemand programming.  In particular, sports
programming costs have increased significantly over the past several
years.  In addition, contracts to purchase sports programming
sometimes provide for optional additional programming to be available on a
surcharge basis during the term of the contract.



Federal
law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between
“must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent”
regime.  When a station opts for the retransmission-consent regime, we
are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s
permission.  Continuing demands by owners of broadcast stations for
carriage of other services or cash payments to those broadcasters in exchange
for retransmission consent will likely increase our programming costs or require
us to cease carriage of popular programming, potentially leading to a loss of
customers in affected markets.



Over the
past several years, our video service rates have not fully offset increasing
programming costs, and with the impact of increasing competition and other
marketplace factors, we do not expect them to do so in the foreseeable
future.  In addition, our inability to fully pass these programming
cost increases on to our video customers has had and is expected in the future
to have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with
the video product.In order to mitigate
reductions of our operating margins due to rapidly increasing programming costs,
we continue to review our pricing and programming packaging strategies, and we
plan to continue to migrate certain program services from our basic level of
service to our digital tiers.  As we migrate our programming to our
digital tier packages, certain programming that was previously available to all
of our customers via an analog signal may only be part of an elective digital
tier package offered to our customers for an additional fee.  As a
result, we expect that the customer base upon which we pay programming fees will
proportionately decrease, and the overall expense for providing that service
will also decrease.  However, reductions in the size of certain
programming customer bases may result in the loss of specific volume discount
benefits.








We have
programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before
the end of 2010.  We will seek to renegotiate the terms of these
agreements.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be
renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are
unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are
reasonable, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to remove such
programming channels from our line-up, which may result in a loss of
customers.



Franchises



As of
December 31, 2009, our systems operated pursuant to a total of
approximately 3,200 franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by
local and state governmental authorities.  Such governmental
authorities often must approve a transfer to another party.  Most
franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material
breach.  In addition, most franchises require us to pay the granting
authority a franchise fee of up to 5.0% of revenues as defined in the various
agreements, which is the maximum amount that may be charged under the applicable
federal law.  We are entitled to and generally do pass this fee
through to the customer.



Prior to
the scheduled expiration of most franchises, we generally initiate renewal
proceedings with the granting authorities.  This process usually takes
three years but can take a longer period of time.  The Communications
Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), which is the primary federal
statute regulating interstate communications, provides for an orderly franchise
renewal process in which granting authorities may not unreasonably withhold
renewals.  In connection with the franchise renewal process, many
governmental authorities require the cable operator to make certain commitments,
such as building out certain of the franchise areas, customer service
requirements, and supporting and carrying public access
channels.  Historically we have been able to renew our franchises
without incurring significant costs, although any particular franchise may not
be renewed on commercially favorable terms or otherwise.  Our failure
to obtain renewals of our franchises, especially those in the major metropolitan
areas where we have the most customers, could have a material adverse effect on
our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or our liquidity,
including our ability to comply with our debt covenants.  See “—
Regulation and Legislation — Video Services — Franchise Matters.”



Competition



We face
competition in the areas of price, service offerings, and service
reliability.  We compete with other providers of video, high-speed
Internet access, telephone services, and other sources of home
entertainment.  We operate in a very competitive business environment,
which can adversely affect the results of our business and
operations.  We cannot predict the impact on us of broadband services
offered by our competitors.



In terms
of competition for customers, we view ourselves as a member of the broadband
communications industry, which encompasses multi-channel video for television
and related broadband services, such as high-speed Internet, telephone, and
other interactive video services.  In the broadband industry, our
principal competitor for video services throughout our territory is direct
broadcast satellite (“DBS”) and our principal competitor for high-speed Internet
services is DSL provided by telephone companies.  Our principal
competitors for telephone services are established telephone companies, other
telephone service providers, and other carriers, including VoIP
providers.  Based on telephone companies’ entry into video service and
the upgrades of their networks, they will become increasingly more significant
competitors for both high-speed Internet and video customers.  At this
time, we do not consider other cable operators to be significant competitors in
our overall market, as overbuilds are infrequent and geographically spotty
(although in any particular market, a cable operator overbuilder would likely be
a significant competitor at the local level).



Our key
competitors include:



DBS



Direct
broadcast satellite is a significant competitor to cable systems.  The
DBS industry has grown rapidly over the last several years, and now serves more
than 32 million subscribers nationwide.  DBS service allows the
subscriber to receive video services directly via satellite using a dish
antenna.



Video
compression technology and high powered satellites allow DBS providers to offer
more than 280 digital channels from a single satellite, thereby surpassing the
traditional analog cable system.  In 2009, major DBS competitors
offered a greater variety of channel packages, and were especially competitive
with promotional pricing for more basic services.  While we continue
to believe that the initial investment by a DBS customer exceeds that of








a cable
customer, the initial equipment cost for DBS has decreased substantially, as the
DBS providers have aggressively marketed offers to new customers of incentives
for discounted or free equipment, installation, and multiple
units.  DBS providers are able to offer service nationwide and are
able to establish a national image and branding with standardized offerings,
which together with their ability to avoid franchise fees of up to 5% of
revenues and property tax, leads to greater efficiencies and lower costs in the
lower tiers of service.  Also, DBS providers are currently offering
more high definition programming, including local high definition
programming.  However, we believe that cable-delivered OnDemand and
Subscription OnDemand services, which include HD programming, are superior to
DBS service, because cable headends can provide two-way communication to deliver
many titles which customers can access and control independently, whereas DBS
technology can only make available a much smaller number of titles with DVR-like
customer control.  However, joint marketing arrangements between some
DBS providers and telecommunications carriers allow similar bundling of services
in certain areas.  DBS providers have also made attempts at deployment
of high-speed Internet access services via satellite, but those services have
been technically constrained and of limited appeal.



Telephone
Companies and Utilities



Our
telephone service competes directly with established telephone companies and
other carriers, including Internet-based VoIP providers, for voice service
customers.  Because we offer voice services, we are subject to
considerable competition from telephone companies and other telecommunications
providers, including wireless providers with an increasing number of consumers
abandoning wired telephone services.  The telecommunications industry
is highly competitive and includes competitors with greater financial and
personnel resources, strong brand name recognition, and long-standing
relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Moreover,
mergers, joint ventures and alliances among our competitors have resulted in
providers capable of offering cable television, Internet, and telephone services
in direct competition with us.



Most
telephone companies, which already have plant, an existing customer base, and
other operational functions in place (such as billing and service personnel),
offer DSL service.  DSL service allows Internet access to subscribers
at data transmission speeds greater than those available over conventional
telephone lines.  We believe DSL service is competitive with
high-speed Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our
Internet services, although often at speeds lower than the speeds we
offer.  However, DSL providers may currently be in a better position
to offer data services to businesses since their networks tend to be more
complete in commercial areas.  They may also have the ability to
bundle telephone with Internet services for a higher percentage of their
customers.  We expect DSL to remain a significant competitor to our
high-speed Internet services.  In addition, the continuing deployment
of fiber optics into telephone companies’ networks (primarily by Verizon
Communications, Inc. (“Verizon”)) will enable them to provide even higher
bandwidth Internet services.



Telephone
companies, including AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”) and Verizon, offer video and
other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do
so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way
video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to
ours.  In the case of Verizon, high-speed data services (fiber optic
service (“FiOS”)) operate at speeds as high as or higher than
ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their
traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless
voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on internal
estimates, we believe that AT&T and Verizon are offering video services in
areas serving approximately 26% to 31% of our estimated homes passed as of
December 31, 2009 and we have experienced increased customer losses in these
areas.  AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture
more of the multiple dwelling unit (“MDU”) market.  Additional
upgrades and product launches are expected in markets in which we
operate.



In
addition to telephone companies obtaining franchises or alternative
authorizations in some areas and seeking them in others, they have been
successful through various means in reducing or streamlining the franchising
requirements applicable to them.  They have had significant success at
the federal and state level, securing an FCC ruling and numerous state franchise
laws that facilitate their entry into the video marketplace.  Because
telephone companies have been successful in avoiding or reducing the franchise
and other regulatory requirements that remain applicable to cable operators like
us, their competitive posture has often been enhanced.  The large
scale entry of major telephone companies as direct competitors in the video
marketplace has adversely affected the profitability and valuation of our cable
systems.



Additionally,
we are subject to limited competition from utilities that possess fiber optic
transmission lines capable of transmitting signals with minimal signal
distortion.  Certain utilities are also developing broadband over
power line technology, which may allow the provision of Internet and other
broadband services to homes and offices.








Broadcast
Television



Cable
television has long competed with broadcast television, which consists of
television signals that the viewer is able to receive without charge using an
“off-air” antenna.  The extent of such competition is dependent upon
the quality and quantity of broadcast signals available through “off-air”
reception, compared to the services provided by the local cable
system.  Traditionally, cable television has provided higher picture
quality and more channel offerings than broadcast
television.  However, the recent licensing of digital spectrum by the
FCC now provides traditional broadcasters with the ability to deliver high
definition television pictures and multiple digital-quality program streams, as
well as advanced digital services such as subscription video and data
transmission.



Traditional
Overbuilds





As of
December 31, 2009, excluding telephone companies, we are aware of
traditional overbuild situations impacting approximately 8% to 9% of our total
homes passed and potential traditional overbuild situations in areas servicing
approximately an additional 1% of our total homes passed.  Additional
overbuild situations may occur, especially given the potential for broadband
overbuilds funded by the “American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.”



Private
Cable



Additional
competition is posed by satellite master antenna television systems, or SMATV
systems, serving MDUs, such as condominiums, apartment complexes, and private
residential communities.  Private cable systems can offer improved
reception of local television stations, and many of the same satellite-delivered
program services that are offered by cable systems.  Although
disadvantaged from a programming cost perspective, SMATV systems currently
benefit from operating advantages not available to franchised cable systems,
including fewer regulatory burdens and no requirement to service low density or
economically depressed communities.  The FCC previously adopted
regulations that favor SMATV and private cable operators serving MDU complexes,
allowing them to continue to secure exclusive contracts with MDU owners. 
The FCC is currently considering whether to restrict their ability to enter into
similar exclusive arrangements.  This sort of regulatory disparity would
provide a competitive advantage to certain of our current and potential
competitors.



Other
Competitors



Local
wireless Internet services have recently begun to operate in markets using
available unlicensed radio spectrum.  Some cellular phone service
operators are also marketing PC cards offering wireless broadband access to
their cellular networks.  These service options offer another
alternative to cable-based Internet access.



Internet
Delivered Video



High-speed
Internet access facilitates the streaming of video into homes and
businesses.  As the quality and availability of video streaming over
the Internet improves, we expect video streaming to compete with the traditional
delivery of video programming services over cable systems.  It is
possible that programming suppliers will consider bypassing cable operators and
market their services directly to the consumer through video streaming over the
Internet.  If customers were to choose to receive video over the
Internet rather than through our basic or digital video services, we could
experience a reduction in our video revenues.










Regulation
and Legislation



The
following summary addresses the key regulatory and legislative developments
affecting the cable industry and our three primary services: video service,
high-speed Internet service, and telephone service.  Cable system
operations are extensively regulated by the federal government (primarily the
FCC), certain state governments, and many local governments.  A
failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial
penalties.  Our business can be dramatically impacted by changes to
the existing regulatory framework, whether triggered by legislative,
administrative, or judicial rulings.  Congress and the FCC have
frequently revisited the subject of communications regulation often designed to
increase competition to the cable industry, and they are likely to do so in the
future.  We could be materially disadvantaged in the future if we are
subject to new regulations that do not equally impact our key
competitors.  We cannot provide assurance that the already extensive
regulation of our business will not be expanded in the future.



VideoService



Cable Rate
Regulation.The cable industry has operated under a federal
rate regulation regime for more than a decade.  The regulations
currently restrict the prices that cable systems charge for the minimum level of
video programming service, referred to as “basic service,” and associated
equipment.  All other cable offerings are now universally exempt from
rate regulation.  Although basic service rate regulation operates
pursuant to a federal formula, local governments, commonly referred to as local
franchising authorities, are primarily responsible for administering this
regulation.  The majority of our local franchising authorities have
never been certified to regulate basic service cable rates (and order rate
reductions and refunds), but they generally retain the right to do so (subject
to potential regulatory limitations under state franchising laws), except in
those specific communities facing “effective competition,” as defined under
federal law.  We have already secured FCC recognition of effective
competition, and become rate deregulated, in many of our
communities.



There
have been frequent calls to impose expanded rate regulation on the cable
industry.  Confronted with rapidly increasing cable programming costs,
it is possible that Congress may adopt new constraints on the retail pricing or
packaging of cable programming.  For example, there has been
legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer
historically combined programming services on an à la carte basis. Any such
mandate could adversely affect our operations.



Federal
rate regulations generally require cable operators to allow subscribers to
purchase premium or pay-per-view services without the necessity of subscribing
to any tier of service, other than the basic service tier.  The
applicability of this rule in certain situations remains unclear, and adverse
decisions by the FCC could affect our pricing and packaging of
services.  As we attempt to respond to a changing marketplace with
competitive pricing practices, such as targeted promotions and discounts, we may
face Communications Act uniform pricing requirements that impede our ability to
compete.



Must
Carry/Retransmission Consent.There are two alternative legal
methods for carriage of local broadcast television stations on cable
systems.  Federal “must carry” regulations require cable systems to
carry local broadcast television stations upon the request of the local
broadcaster.  Alternatively, federal law includes “retransmission
consent” regulations, by which popular commercial television stations can
prohibit cable carriage unless the cable operator first negotiates for
“retransmission consent,” which may be conditioned on significant payments or
other concessions.  Broadcast stations must elect “must carry” or
“retransmission consent” every three years, with the election date of October 1,
2008, for the current period of 2009 through 2011.  Either option has
a potentially adverse effect on our business by utilizing bandwidth
capacity.  In addition, popular stations invoking “retransmission
consent” increasingly have been demanding cash compensation in their
negotiations with cable operators.



In
September 2007, the FCC adopted an order increasing the cable industry’s
existing must-carry obligations by requiring cable operators to offer “must
carry” broadcast signals in both analog and digital format (dual carriage) for a
three year period after the broadcast television industry completed its ongoing
transition from an analog to digital format, which occurred on June 12,
2009.  The burden could increase further if cable systems were ever
required to carry multiple program streams included within a single digital
broadcast transmission (multicast carriage), which the recent FCC order did not
address.  Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage
obligations could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our
preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer
services that appeal to our customers and generate revenues.  We may
need to take additional operational steps and/or make further operating and
capital investments to ensure that customers not otherwise equipped to receive
digital programming, retain access to broadcast programming.








Access
Channels.Local franchise agreements often require cable
operators to set aside certain channels for public, educational, and
governmental access programming.  Federal law also requires cable
systems to designate a portion of their channel capacity for commercial leased
access by unaffiliated third parties, who generally offer programming that our
customers do not particularly desire.  The FCC adopted new rules in
2007 mandating a significant reduction in the rates that operators can charge
commercial leased access users and imposing additional administrative
requirements that would be burdensome on the cable industry.  The
effect of the FCC’s new rules was stayed by a federal court, pending a cable
industry appeal and a finding that the new rules did not comply with the
requirements of the Office of Management and Budget.  Under federal
statute, commercial leased access programmers are entitled to use up to 15% of a
cable system’s capacity.  Increased activity in this area could
further burden the channel capacity of our cable systems, and potentially limit
the amount of services we are able to offer and may necessitate further
investments to expand our network capacity.



Access to
Programming.The Communications Act and the FCC’s “program
access” rules generally prevent satellite cable programming vendors in which a
cable operator has an attributable interest and satellite broadcast programming
vendors from favoring cable operators over competing multichannel video
distributors, such as DBS, and limit the ability of such vendors to offer
exclusive programming arrangements to cable operators.  Given the
heightened competition and media consolidation that we face, it is possible that
we will find it increasingly difficult to gain access to popular programming at
favorable terms.  Such difficulty could adversely impact our
business.



Ownership
Restrictions.Federal regulation of the communications field
traditionally included a host of ownership restrictions, which limited the size
of certain media entities and restricted their ability to enter into competing
enterprises.  Through a series of legislative, regulatory, and
judicial actions, most of these restrictions have been either eliminated or
substantially relaxed.  Changes in this regulatory area could alter
the business environment in which we operate.



Pole
Attachments.The Communications Act requires most utilities
owning utility poles to provide cable systems with access to poles and conduits
and simultaneously subjects the rates charged for this access to either federal
or state regulation.  The Communications Act specifies that
significantly higher rates apply if the cable plant is providing
“telecommunications” services rather than only video
services.  Although the FCC previously determined that the lower rate
was applicable to the mixed use of a pole attachment for the provision of both
video and Internet access services (a determination upheld by the U.S. Supreme
Court), the FCC issued aNotice of Proposed Rulemaking(“NPRM”) on November 20, 2007, in which it “tentatively concludes” that
such mixed use determination would likely be set aside.  Under this
NPRM, the FCC is seeking comment on its proposal to apply a single rate for all
pole attachments over which a cable operator provides Internet access and other
services, that allocates to the cable operators the additional cost associated
with the “unusable space” of the pole. Such rate change could likely result in a
substantial increase in our pole attachment costs.



Cable
Equipment.In 1996, Congress enacted a statute seeking to
promote the "competitive availability of navigational devices" by allowing cable
subscribers to use set-top boxes obtained from third parties, including
third-party retailers.  The FCC has undertaken several steps to implement
this statute designed to promote the retail sale of set-top boxes and other
equipment that can be used to receive video services.  The FCC requires
that security functions (which allow a cable operator to control who may access
its services and remains under the operator's exclusive control) be unbundled
from the basic channel navigation functions and requires that those security
functions be made available through "CableCARDs" that connect to customer-owned
televisions and other devices equipped to receive one-way analog and digital
video service without the need for an operator-provided set-top box. 
Effective July 1, 2007, cable operators were prohibited from acquiring for
deployment integrated set-top boxes that combine both channel navigation and
security functions.



The FCC
has been considering regulatory proposals for "plug-and-play" retail devices
that could access two-way cable services. In April 2008, we joined a multi-party
contract, among major consumer electronics and information technology companies
and the six largest cable operators in the United States, to agree on how
technology we use to support our current generation set-top boxes will be
deployed in cable networks and navigation devices to enable retail devices
to access two-way cable services without impairing our ability to
innovate.  In December 2009, the FCC commenced a preliminary inquiry into
these and alternative approaches to set-top boxes and consumer
electronics.  Some of the alternative approaches, if adopted, could impose
substantial costs on us and impair out ability to innovate.



MDUs / Inside
Wiring.  The FCC has adopted a series of regulations designed
to spur competition to established cable operators in MDU
complexes.  These regulations allow our competitors to access certain
existing cable wiring inside MDUs.  The FCC also adopted regulations
limiting the ability of established cable operators, like us, to enter








into
exclusive service contracts for MDU complexes.  Significantly, it has
not yet imposed a similar restriction on private cable operators and SMATV
systems serving MDU properties but the issue is still pending before the
FCC.  In their current form, the FCC’s regulations in this area favor
our competitors.



PrivacyRegulation.  The
Communications Act limits our ability to collect and disclose subscribers’
personally identifiable information for our video, telephone, and high-speed
Internet services, as well as provides requirements to safeguard such
information.  We are subject to additional federal, state, and local
laws and regulations that impose additional subscriber and employee privacy
restrictions.  Further, the FCC, FTC, and many states regulate and
restrict the marketing practices of cable operators, including telemarketing and
online marketing efforts.



Other FCC
Regulatory Matters.FCC regulations cover a variety of
additional areas, including, among other things: (1) equal employment
opportunity obligations; (2) customer service standards; (3) technical service
standards; (4) mandatory blackouts of certain network, syndicated and sports
programming; (5) restrictions on political advertising; (6) restrictions on
advertising in children's programming; (7) restrictions on origination
cablecasting; (8) restrictions on carriage of lottery programming; (9)
sponsorship identification obligations; (10) closed captioning of video
programming; (11) licensing of systems and facilities; (12) maintenance of
public files; and (13) emergency alert systems.  Each of these
regulations restricts our business practices to varying degrees.



It is
possible that Congress or the FCC will expand or modify its regulation of cable
systems in the future, and we cannot predict at this time how that might impact
our business.



Copyright.



Copyright
clearances for non-broadcast programming services are arranged through private
negotiations.  Cable operators also must obtain music rights for
locally originated programming and advertising from the major music performing
rights organizations.  These licensing fees have been the source of
litigation in the past, and we cannot predict with certainty whether license fee
disputes may arise in the future.



Franchise
Matters.








The
traditional cable franchising regime is currently undergoing significant change
as a result of various federal and state actions.  In a series of
recent rulemakings, the FCC adopted new rules that streamlined entry for new
competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduced
certain franchising burdens for these new entrants.  The FCC adopted
more modest relief for existing cable operators.



At the
same time, a substantial number of states have adopted franchising
laws.  Again, these laws were principally designed to streamline entry
for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new entrants
that are not immediately available to existing cable operators.  In
many instances, these franchising regimes do not apply to established cable
operators until the existing franchise expires or a competitor directly enters
the franchise territory.  In a number of instances, however, incumbent
cable operators have the ability to immediately “opt into” the new franchising
regime, which can provide significant regulatory relief.  The exact
nature of these state franchising laws, and their varying application to new and
existing video providers, will impact our franchising obligations and our
competitive position.



Internet
Service





As the
Internet has matured, it has become the subject of increasing regulatory
interest.  Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range
of measures directly or potentially affecting Internet use, including, for
example, consumer privacy, copyright protections (which afford copyright owners
certain rights against us that could adversely affect our relationship with a
customer accused of violating copyright laws), defamation liability, taxation,
obscenity, and unsolicited commercial e-mail.  Additionally, the FCC
and Congress are considering subjecting high-speed Internet access services to
the Universal Service funding requirements.  This would impose
significant new costs on our high-speed Internet service.  State and
local governmental organizations have also adopted Internet-related
regulations.  These various governmental jurisdictions are also
considering additional regulations in these and other areas, such as pricing,
service and product quality, and intellectual property ownership.  The
adoption of new Internet regulations or the adaptation of existing laws to the
Internet could adversely affect our business.



Telephone
Service



The 1996
Telecom Act created a more favorable regulatory environment for us to provide
telecommunications services than had previously existed.  In
particular, it limited the regulatory role of local franchising authorities and
established requirements ensuring that providers of traditional
telecommunications services can interconnect with other telephone companies to
provide competitive services.  Many implementation details remain
unresolved, and there are substantial regulatory changes being considered that
could impact, in both positive and negative ways, our primary telecommunications
competitors.  The FCC and state regulatory authorities are
considering, for example,








whether
common carrier regulation traditionally applied to incumbent local exchange
carriers should be modified and whether any of those requirements should be
extended to VoIP providers.  The FCC has already determined that
providers of telephone services using Internet Protocol technology must comply
with 911 emergency service opportunities (“E911”), requirements for
accommodating law enforcement wiretaps (CALEA), Universal Service fund
collection, Customer Proprietary Network Information requirements, and telephone
relay requirements.  It is unclear whether and how the FCC will apply
additional types of common carrier regulations, such as inter-carrier
compensation to alternative voice technology.  In March 2007, a
federal appeals court affirmed the FCC’s decision concerning federal regulation
of certain VoIP services, but declined to specifically find that VoIP service
provided by cable companies, such as we provide, should be regulated only at the
federal level.  As a result, some states have begun proceedings to
subject cable VoIP services to state level regulation.  Also, the FCC
and Congress continue to consider to what extent, VoIP service will have
interconnection rights with telephone companies.  It is unclear how
these regulatory matters ultimately will be resolved.



Employees



As of
December 31, 2009, we had approximately 16,700 full-time equivalent
employees.  At December 31, 2009, approximately 77 of our employees
were represented by collective bargaining agreements.  We have never
experienced a work stoppage.



