Item 1.Business.



Introduction



We are among the largest providers of cable services in the United States, offering a variety of entertainment, information and communications solutions to residential and commercial customers.  Our infrastructure consists of a hybrid of fiber and coaxial cable plant with approximately12.8 millionestimated passings, with97%at 550 megahertz (“MHz”) or greater and98%of plant miles two-way active. A national Internet Protocol (IP) infrastructure interconnects Charter Communications, Inc. (“Charter”) markets. See "Item 1. Business — Products and Services" for further description of these terms and services, including "customers."



As ofDecember 31, 2013, we served approximately5.9 millionresidential and commercial customers. We sell our video, Internet and voice services primarily on a subscription basis, often in a bundle of two or more services, providing savings and convenience to our customers. Bundled services are available to approximately97%of our passings, and approximately62%of our customers subscribe to a bundle of services.



We served approximately4.2 millionresidential video customers as ofDecember 31, 2013, and approximately92%of our video customers subscribed to digital video service. Digital video enables our customers to access advanced video services such as high definition ("HD") television, Charter OnDemand™(“OnDemand”)video programming, an interactive program guide and digital video recorder (“DVR”) service.  We initiated our all-digital initiative in 2013 in a number of our markets.  We expect to complete our all-digital rollout by the end of 2014.  Once a market is all-digital, we will offer over 200 HD channels and faster Internet speeds in these areas.



We also served approximately4.4 millionresidential Internet customers as ofDecember 31, 2013. Our Internet service is available in a variety of download speeds up to 100 megabits per second (“Mbps”) and upload speeds of up to 5 Mbps.  Approximately 75% of our Internet customers have at least 30 Mbps download speed which currently is the minimum speed we offer.



We provided voice service to approximately2.3 millionresidential customers as ofDecember 31, 2013. Our voice services typically include unlimited local and long distance calling to the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, plus other features, including voicemail, call waiting and caller ID.



Through Charter Business®, we provide scalable, tailored broadband communications solutions to business and carrier organizations, such as video entertainment services, Internet access, business telephone services, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings.  As ofDecember 31, 2013, we served approximately567,000commercial primary service units, primarily small- and medium-sized commercial customers. Our advertising sales division, Charter Media®, provides local, regional and national businesses with the opportunity to advertise in individual markets on cable television networks.



For the year endedDecember 31, 2013, we generated approximately$8.2 billionin revenue, of which approximately84%was generated from our residential video, Internet and voice services. We also generated revenue from providing video, Internet, voice and fiber connectivity services to commercial businesses and from the sale of advertising.  Sales from residential triple play customers, Internet and video revenues and from commercial services have contributed to the majority of our recent revenue growth.



We have a history of net losses.  Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses, interest expenses that we incur on our debt, depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made, and continue to make, in our cable properties, amortization expenses related to our customer relationship intangibles and non-cash taxes resulting from increases in our deferred tax liabilities.



Charter was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1999.  On March 27, 2009, we and certain affiliates filed voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”), to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”).  The Chapter 11 cases were jointly administered under the caption In re Charter Communications, Inc., et al., Case No. 09-11435.  On May 7, 2009, we filed a Joint Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”) and a related disclosure statement with the Bankruptcy Court.  The Plan was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on November 17, 2009, and became effective on November 30, 2009, the date on which we emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.  The final decree closing the case was entered by the Bankruptcy Court on December 30, 2013.












The terms “Charter,” “we,” “our” and “us,” when used in this report with respect to the period prior to Charter’s emergence from bankruptcy, are references to the Debtors (“Predecessor”) and, when used with respect to the period commencing after Charter’s emergence, are references to Charter (“Successor”). These references include the subsidiaries of Predecessor or Successor, as the case may be, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise.



Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Atlantic Street, Stamford, Connecticut 06901.  Our telephone number is (203) 905-7801, and we have a website accessible at www.charter.com.  Our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this annual report.



Recent Events



On January 13, 2014, Charter issued a press release announcing that it has sent a letter to TWC proposing that the companies immediately engage in discussions to conclude a merger agreement to combine the companies. On February 11, 2014, Charter provided a notice of intent to nominate 13 candidates for the board of directors of TWC. On February 13, 2014, TWC and Comcast announced an agreement for TWC to merge with Comcast. Comcast also announced that it intended to sell systems with 3 million subscribers in connection with its purchase of TWC.   Prior to Comcast's announcement on February 13, 2014, Charter and Comcast were actively engaged in discussions to work together for Charter to purchase TWC and for Charter to sell systems to Comcast. We cannot predict if we will be successful in completing any acquisitions of TWC or Comcast cable systems.
















Corporate Entity Structure



The chart below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect subsidiaries.  This chart does not include all of our affiliates and subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for presentation purposes.  The equity ownership percentages shown below are approximations and do not give effect to any exercise of then outstanding warrants.  Effective December 31, 2013, Charter contributed all of its 30% preferred equity in CC VIII, LLC ("CC VIII") through intermediary subsidiaries to CCH I, LLC ("CCH I") resulting in CCH I Holding 100% of the preferred equity in CC VIII.  As a result of this restructuring, the respective common equity interests in Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC (“Charter Holdco”) were adjusted to reflect each entity's respective contributions.  Indebtedness amounts shown below are principal amounts as ofDecember 31, 2013.  See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which also includes the accreted values of the indebtedness described below.







Charter Communications, Inc.Charter owns 100% of Charter Holdco.  Charter Holdco, through its subsidiaries, owns cable systems.  As sole manager under applicable operating agreements, Charter controls the affairs of Charter Holdco and its limited liability company subsidiaries.  In addition, Charter provides management services to Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries under a management services agreement.



Interim Holding Companies.As indicated in the organizational chart above, our interim holding companies indirectly own the subsidiaries that own or operate all of our cable systems, subject to a CC VIII 100% preferred interest held by CCH I, and two of these companies, CCO Holdings, LLC ("CCO Holdings") and Charter Communications Operating, LLC ("Charter Operating"), had debt obligations as ofDecember 31, 2013.  For a description of the debt issued by these issuers please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Description of Our Outstanding Debt.”












Products and Services



Through our hybrid fiber and coaxial cable network, we offer our customers traditional cable video services, as well as advanced video services (such as OnDemand, HD television, and DVR service), Internet services and voice services.  Our voice services are primarily provided using voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) technology, to transmit digital voice signals over our systems.  Our video, Internet, and voice services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription basis, with prices and related charges based on the types of service selected, whether the services are sold as a “bundle” or on an individual basis, and the equipment necessary to receive the services.



The following table summarizes our customer statistics for video, Internet and voice as ofDecember 31, 2013and2012.



Approximate as ofDecember 31,2013 (a)2012 (a)ResidentialVideo (b)4,1773,989Internet (c)4,3833,785Voice (d)2,2731,914Residential PSUs (e)10,8339,688Residential Customer Relationships (f)5,5615,035Revenue per Customer Relationship (g)$107.97$105.78CommercialVideo (b)(h)165169Internet (c)257193Voice (d)145105Commercial PSUs (e)567467Commercial Customer Relationships (f)(h)375325



After giving effect to the acquisition of Bresnan Broadband Holdings, LLC and its subsidiaries (collectively, “Bresnan”) in July 2013, December 31, 2012 residential video, Internet and voice customers would have been4,286,000,4,059,000and2,073,000, respectively, and commercial video, Internet and voice customers would have been177,000,210,000and116,000, respectively.



(a)We calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the monthly billing cycle for each account.  On that basis, as ofDecember 31, 2013and2012, customers include approximately11,300and18,400customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days past due in payment, approximately800and2,600customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 90 days past due in payment, and approximately900and1,700customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days past due in payment.



(b)“Video customers” represent those customers who subscribe to our video cable services.



(c)“Internet customers” represent those customers who subscribe to our Internet service.



(d)“Voice customers” represent those customers who subscribe to our voice service.



(e)“Primary Service Units” or “PSUs” represent the total of video, Internet and voice customers.



(f)"Customer Relationships" include the number of customers that receive one or more levels of service, encompassing video, Internet and voice services, without regard to which service(s) such customers receive.  This statistic is computed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Cable & Telecommunications Association ("NCTA").  Commercial customer relationships include video customers in commercial structures, which are calculated on an EBU basis (see footnote (h)) and non-video commercial customer relationships.














(g)"Revenue per Customer Relationship" is calculated as total residential video, Internet and voice quarterly revenue divided by three divided by average residential customer relationships during the respective quarter.



(h)Included within commercial video customers are those in commercial structures, which are calculated on an equivalent bulk unit (“EBU”) basis.  We calculate EBUs by dividing the bulk price charged to accounts in an area by the published rate charged to non-bulk residential customers in that market for the comparable tier of service. This EBU method of estimating basic video customers is consistent with the methodology used in determining costs paid to programmers and is consistent with the methodology used by other multiple system operators.  As we increase our published video rates to residential customers without a corresponding increase in the prices charged to commercial service customers, our EBU count will decline even if there is no real loss in commercial service customers.  For example, commercial video customers decreased by 10,000 during the year ended December 31, 2013 due to published video rate increases.



Video Services



In2013, residential video services represented approximately49%of our total revenues.  Our video service offerings include the following:



•Video.All of our video customers receive a package of basic programming which generally consists of local broadcast television, local community programming, including governmental and public access, and limited satellite-delivered or non-broadcast channels, such as weather, shopping and religious programming.  Our digital video services include a digital set-top box, an interactive electronic programming guide with parental controls, an expanded menu of digital tiers, premium and pay-per-view channels, including OnDemand (available nearly everywhere), digital quality music channels and the option to also receive a cable card. In addition to video programming, digital video service enables customers to receive our advanced video services such as DVR's and HD television.  Premium channels provide original programming, commercial-free movies, sports, and other special event entertainment programming.  Although we offer subscriptions to premium channels on an individual basis, we offer an increasing number of digital video and premium channel packages, and we offer premium channels combined with our advanced video services.  Much of our programming is now offered OnDemand and increasingly over the Internet.



•OnDemand, Subscription OnDemand and Pay-Per-View.In most areas, we offer OnDemand service which allows customers to select from 10,000 or more titles at any time.  OnDemand includes standard definition, HD and three dimensional ("3D") content.  OnDemand programming options may be accessed for free if the content is associated with the customer’s linear subscription, or for a fee on a transactional basis.  OnDemand services may also be offered on a subscription basis included in a digital tier premium channel subscription or for a monthly fee.  Pay-per-view channels allow customers to pay on a per-event basis to view a single showing of a recently released movie, a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or similar event on a commercial-free basis.



•High Definition Television.HD television offers our digital customers certain video programming at a higher resolution to improve picture and audio quality versus standard basic or digital video images.  In 2014, we plan to complete our transition to all-digital transmission of channels which will allow us to increase the number of HD channels offered to more than 200 in substantially all of our markets.



•Digital Video Recorder.DVR service enables customers to digitally record programming and to pause and rewind live programming.    Charter customers may lease multiple DVR set-top boxes to maximize recording capacity on multiple televisions in the home.  Most of Charter customers also have the ability to program their DVR's remotely via tablet and phone applications or our website.



•Charter TV App.The Charter TV App enables Charter video customers to search and discover content on a variety of customer owned devices, including the iPhone®, iPad®, and iPod Touch®, as well as the most popular Android™based tablets.  The Charter TV App allows customers to watch over 100 channels of cable TV and use the device as a remote to control their digital set-top box while in their home. It also allows customers the ability to browse Charter's program guide, search for programming, and schedule DVR recordings from inside and outside the home.  Charter's online offerings include many of our largest and most popular networks.  We also currently offer content already available online through Charter.net such as HBO Go®and WatchESPN®with other online content.  We are currently testing a network based user interface with the same look and feel of the Charter TV App.  The user interface is being designed to work with all of our existing and future set-top boxes.  A second alternative is to deploy the user interface to the majority of our existing set-top boxes and all of our new set-top boxes which are Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification ("DOCSIS") enabled.












Internet Services



In2013, residential Internet services represented approximately27%of our total revenues.  Approximately94%of our estimated passings have DOCSIS 3.0 wideband technology, allowing us to offer multiple tiers of Internet services with speeds up to 100 Mbps download to our residential customers.  Our Internet services also include our Internet portal, Charter.net, which provides multiple e-mail addresses, as well as variety of content and media from local, national and international providers including entertainment, games, news and sports.  Finally, Charter Security Suite is included with Charter Internet services and protects computers from viruses and spyware and provides parental control features.



Accelerated growth in the number of IP devices and bandwidth used in homes has created a need for faster speeds and greater reliability.  Charter is focused on providing services to fill those needs.  In 2013, we reintroduced an in-home WiFi product permitting customers to lease a high performing wireless router to maximize their wireless Internet experience.  Our base Internet speed offering is 30 Mbps download and we offer speeds up to 100 Mbps in all of our markets.  As we complete the all-digital initiative, we expect to increase our minimum offered Internet speed to 60 Mbps, and 100 Mbps in certain markets, with the ability to go faster.



Voice Services



In2013, residential voice services represented approximately8%of our total revenues.  We provide voice communications services primarily using VoIP technology to transmit digital voice signals over our network.  Charter Voice includes unlimited nationwide calling, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other features.  Charter Voice also provides international calling either by the minute or through packages of minutes per month.  For Charter Voice and video customers, caller ID on TV is available.



Commercial Services



In2013, commercial services represented approximately10%of our total revenues.  Commercial services offered through Charter Business, include scalable broadband communications solutions for businesses and carrier organizations of all sizes such as Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video entertainment services and business telephone services.



•Small Business.Charter offers small businesses (1 - 19 employees) services similar to our residential offerings including a full range of video programming tiers and music services, coax Internet speeds up to 100 Mbps downstream and up to 7 Mbps upstream in its DOCSIS 3.0 markets, a set of business cloud services including web hosting, e-mail and security, and multi-line telephone services with more than 30 business features including web-based service management.



•Medium Business.In addition to its other offerings, Charter also offers medium sized businesses (20-199 employees) more complex products such as fiber Internet with symmetrical speeds of up to 1 Gbps and voice trunking services such as Primary Rate Interface ("PRI") and Session Initiation Protocol ("SIP") Trunks which provide higher-capacity voice services.   Charter also offers Metro Ethernet service that connects two or more locations for commercial customers with geographically dispersed locations with speeds up to 10 Gbps.  Metro Ethernet service can also extend the reach of the customer's local area network or "LAN" within and between metropolitan areas.



•Large Business.Charter offers large businesses (200+ employees) with multiple sites more specialized solutions such as custom fiber networks, Metro and long haul Ethernet, PRI and SIP Trunk services.



•Carrier Wholesale.Charter offers high-capacity last-mile data connectivity services to wireless and wireline carriers, Internet Service Providers ("ISPs") and other competitive carriers on a wholesale basis.



Sale of Advertising



In2013, sales of advertising represented approximately4%of our total revenues.  We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising on satellite-delivered networks such as MTV®, CNN®and ESPN®.  In any particular market, we generally insert local advertising on up to 40 channels.  We also  sell advertising on our Internet portal, Charter.net.  In most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force, however in some cases, we enter into representation agreements with contiguous cable system operators under which another operator in the area will sell advertising on our behalf for a percentage of the revenue.  In some markets, we sell advertising on behalf of other operators.












Charter has deployed Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format (“EBIF”) technology to set-top boxes in most service areas within the Charter footprint.  EBIF is a technology foundation that will allow Charter to deliver enhanced and interactive television applications and enable our video customers to use their remote control to interact with their television programming and its advertisements.  EBIF will enable Charter’s customers to request such items as coupons, samples, and brochures from advertisers.



From time to time, certain of our vendors, including programmers and equipment vendors, have purchased advertising from us.  For the years endingDecember 31, 2013,2012and2011, we had advertising revenues from vendors of approximately$41 million,$59 millionand$51 million, respectively.  These revenues resulted from purchases at market rates pursuant to binding agreements.



Pricing of Our Products and Services



Our revenues are derived principally from the monthly fees customers pay for the services we provide.  We typically charge a one-time installation fee which is sometimes waived or discounted during certain promotional periods.  The prices we charge for our products and services vary based on the level of service the customer chooses and in some cases the geographic market.  In accordance with Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") rules, the prices we charge for video cable-related equipment, such as set-top boxes and remote control devices, and for installation services, are based on actual costs plus a permitted rate of return in regulated markets.



In mid-2012, Charter launched a new pricing and packaging approach which emphasizes the triple play products of video, Internet and voice services and combines our most popular services in core packages at a fair price.  We believe the benefits of this new approach are:



•simplicity for both our customers in understanding our offers, and our employees in service delivery;

•the ability to package more services at the time of sale and include more product in each service, thus increasing revenue per customer;

•higher product offering quality through more HD channels, improved pricing for HD and HD/DVR equipment and faster Internet speeds;

•lower expected churn as a result of higher customer satisfaction; and

•gradual price increases at the end of promotional periods.



As ofDecember 31, 2013, approximately 64% of our customers, or 68% excluding those acquired in the acquisition of Bresnan, are in the new pricing and packaging plan.



Our Network Technology



Our network includes three components: the national backbone, regional/metro networks and the "last-mile" network.  Both our national backbone and regional/metro network components utilize or plan to utilize a redundant Internet Protocol ("IP”) ring/mesh architecture with the capability to differentiate quality of service for each residential or commercial product offering.  The national backbone provides connectivity from the regional demarcation points to nationally centralized content, connectivity and services.  The regional/metro network components provide connectivity between the regional demarcation points and headends within a specific geographic area and enable the delivery of content and services between these network components.



Our last-mile network utilizes a traditional hybrid fiber coaxial cable (“HFC”) architecture, which combines the use of fiber optic cable with coaxial cable.  In most systems, we deliver our signals via fiber optic cable from the headend to a group of nodes, and use coaxial cable to deliver the signal from individual nodes to the homes served by that node. For our fiber Internet, Ethernet, carrier wholesale, SIP and PRI commercial customers, fiber optic cable is extended from the individual nodes all the way to the customer's site.  On average, our system design enables up to 340 homes passed to be served by a single node and provides for six strands of fiber to each node, with two strands activated and four strands reserved for spares and future services.  We believe that this hybrid network design provides high capacity and signal quality.  The design also provides two-way signal capacity for the addition of further interactive services.



HFC architecture benefits include:



•bandwidth capacity to enable traditional and two-way video and broadband services;

•dedicated bandwidth for two-way services, which avoids return signal interference problems that can occur with two-way communication capability; and

•signal quality and high service reliability.












Approximately97%of our estimated passings are served by systems that have bandwidth of 550 megahertz or greater and98%are two-way activated as ofDecember 31, 2013.  This bandwidth capacity enables us to offer digital television, Internet services, voice services and other advanced video services.



In 2013, we initiated a transition from analog to digital transmission of the channels we distribute which allows us to recapture bandwidth.  We completed this transition in approximately 15% of our footprint in 2013 and expect to complete the initiative in 2014 across our remaining footprint.  The all-digital platform enables us to offer a larger selection of HD channels, faster Internet speeds and better picture quality while providing greater plant security and lower transaction costs.



In 2013, we initiated a trial of a network, or “cloud,” based user interface designed to enable our customers to enjoy a common user interface with a state-of-the-art video experience on all existing and future set-top boxes.  We plan to continue to trial and enhance this technology in 2014.



Management, Customer Care and Marketing



Our operations are centralized with our corporate office responsible for coordinating and overseeing operations including establishing company-wide strategies, policies and procedures.  Sales and marketing, network operations, field operations, customer care, engineering, advertising sales, human resources, legal, government relations, information technology and finance are all directed at the corporate level.  Regional and local field operations are responsible for servicing customers and maintenance and construction of outside plant.



Charter continues to focus on improving the customer experience through improvements to our customer care processes, product offerings and the quality and reliability of our service.  Our customer care centers are managed centrally.  We have eight internal customer care locations which route calls to the appropriate agents, plus several third-party call center locations that through technology and procedures function as an integrated system.  We also have two additional customer care locations acquired as part of the acquisition of Bresnan.  See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Overview.”  We increased the portion of service calls handled by Charter employees in 2013 and intend to continue to do so in 2014.  We also utilize our website to enable our customers to view and pay their bills on-line, obtain information regarding their account or services, and perform various equipment troubleshooting procedures.  Our customers may also obtain support through our on-line chat functionality.  We increased our outside plant maintenance activities in 2012 and 2013 to improve the reliability and technical quality of our plant to avoid repeat trouble calls, which has resulted in reductions in the number of service-related calls to our care centers and in the number of trouble call truck rolls in 2012 and 2013.



Our marketing strategy emphasizes our bundled services through targeted direct response marketing programs to existing and potential customers and increases awareness and value of the Charter brand.  Marketing expenditures increased by$57 million, or14%, over the year endedDecember 31, 2012to$479 millionfor the year endedDecember 31, 2013as a result of increased media investment and commercial marketing efforts.  Our marketing organization creates and executes marketing programs intended to increase customers, retain existing customers and cross-sell additional products to current customers.  We monitor the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, customer perception, competition, pricing, and service preferences, among other factors, to increase our responsiveness to our customers.  Our marketing organization also manages and directs several sales channels including direct sales, on-line, outbound telemarketing and Charter stores.



Programming



General



We believe that offering a wide variety of programming influences a customer’s decision to subscribe to and retain our cable services.  We rely on our experience in programming cable systems, which includes market research, customer demographics and local programming preferences to determine channel offerings in each of our markets.  We obtain basic and premium programming from a number of suppliers, usually pursuant to written contracts.  Our programming contracts generally continue for a fixed period of time, usually from three to eight years, and are subject to negotiated renewal.  Some programming suppliers offer financial incentives to support the launch of a channel and/or ongoing marketing support.  We also negotiate volume discount pricing structures.  We have more recently negotiated for additional content rights allowing us to provide programming on-line to our authenticated customers.



Costs



Programming is usually made available to us for a license fee, which is generally paid based on the number of customers to whom we make such programming available.  Programming costs are usually payable each month based on calculations










performed by us and are generally subject to annual cost escalations and audits by the programmers.  Programming license fees may include “volume” discounts available for higher numbers of customers, as well as discounts for channel placement or service penetration.  Some channels are available without cost to us for a limited period of time, after which we pay for the programming.  For home shopping channels, we receive a percentage of the revenue attributable to our customers’ purchases, as well as, in some instances, incentives for channel placement.



Our programming costs have increased in every year we have operated in excess of customary inflationary and cost-of-living type increases.  We expect them to continue to increase due to a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers with additional selling power as a result of media consolidation and additional programming, including new sports services and non-linear programming for on-line and OnDemand programming. In particular, sports programming costs have increased significantly over the past several years as well as increases in the demands of large media companies who link carriage of their most popular networks to carriage and cost increases for all of their networks.  In addition, contracts to purchase sports programming sometimes provide for optional additional games to be added to the service and made available on a surcharge basis during the term of the contract.  Additionally, programmers continue to create new networks and migrate popular programming such as sporting events to those networks.



Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime.  When a station opts for the retransmission-consent regime, we are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission.  Continuing demands by owners of broadcast stations for cash payments at substantial increases over amounts paid in prior years in exchange for retransmission consent will increase our programming costs or require us to cease carriage of popular programming, potentially leading to a loss of customers in affected markets.



Over the past several years, increases in our video service rates have not fully offset increasing programming costs, and with the impact of increasing competition and other marketplace factors, we do not expect them to do so in the foreseeable future.  Although we pass along a portion of amounts paid for retransmission consent to the majority of our customers, our inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our video customers has had and is expected in the future to have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.In order to mitigate reductions of our operating margins due to rapidly increasing programming costs, we continue to review our pricing and programming packaging strategies, and we plan to continue to migrate certain program services from our basic level of service to our digital tiers, remove underperforming services and limit the launch of non-essential, new networks.



We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2014.  We will seek to renegotiate the terms of these agreements.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which may result in a loss of customers.



Franchises



As ofDecember 31, 2013, our systems operated pursuant to a total of approximately 3,300 franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by local and state governmental authorities.  Such governmental authorities often must approve a transfer to another party.  Most franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material breach.  In addition, most franchises require us to pay the granting authority a franchise fee of up to 5.0% of revenues as defined in the various agreements, which is the maximum amount that may be charged under the applicable federal law.  We are entitled to and generally do pass this fee through to the customer.



Prior to the scheduled expiration of most franchises, we generally initiate renewal proceedings with the granting authorities.  This process usually takes three years but can take a longer period of time.  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), which is the primary federal statute regulating interstate communications, provides for an orderly franchise renewal process in which granting authorities may not unreasonably withhold renewals.  In connection with the franchise renewal process, many governmental authorities require the cable operator to make certain commitments, such as building out certain of the franchise areas, customer service requirements, and supporting and carrying public access channels.  Historically we have been able to renew our franchises without incurring significant costs, although any particular franchise may not be renewed on commercially favorable terms or otherwise.  If we failed to obtain renewals of franchises representing a significant number of our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or our liquidity, including our ability to comply with our debt covenants.  See “— Regulation and Legislation — Video Services — Franchise Matters.”












Markets



We operate in geographically diverse areas which are organized in regional clusters we call key market areas.   These key market areas are managed centrally on a consolidated level.  Our twelve key market areas and the customer relationships within each market as ofDecember 31, 2013are as follows (in thousands):



Key Market AreaTotal Customer RelationshipsCalifornia595Carolinas585Central States599Alabama/Georgia626Michigan644Minnesota/Nebraska346Mountain States384New England357Northwest499Tennessee/Louisiana530Texas193Wisconsin578



Competition



We face competition for both residential and commercial customers in the areas of price, service offerings, and service reliability.  In our residential business, we compete with other providers of video, high-speed Internet access, voice services, and other sources of home entertainment.  In our commercial business, we compete with other providers of video, high-speed Internet access and related value-added services, fiber solutions, business telephony, and Ethernet services.  We operate in a competitive business environment, which can adversely affect the results of our business and operations.  We cannot predict the impact on us of broadband services offered by our competitors.



In terms of competition for customers, we view ourselves as a member of the broadband communications industry, which encompasses multi-channel video for television and related broadband services, such as high-speed Internet, voice, and other interactive video services.  In the broadband communications industry, our principal competitors for video services are direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) and telephone companies that offer video services.  Our principal competitors for high-speed Internet services are the broadband services provided by telephone companies, including both traditional DSL, fiber-to-the-node, and fiber-to-the-home offerings.  Our principal competitors for voice services are established telephone companies, other telephone service providers, and other carriers, including VoIP providers.  At this time, we do not consider other cable operators to be significant competitors in our overall market, as overbuilds are infrequent and geographically spotty (although in any particular market, a cable operator overbuilder would likely be a significant competitor at the local level).  We could, however, face additional competition from other cable operators if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories.



Our key competitors include:



DBS



Direct broadcast satellite is a significant competitor to cable systems.  The two largest DBS providers now serve more than 34 million subscribers nationwide.  DBS service allows the subscriber to receive video services directly via satellite using a dish antenna.



Video compression technology and high powered satellites allow DBS providers to offer more than 280 digital channels.  In 2013, major DBS competitors were especially competitive with promotional pricing for more basic services.  While we continue to believe that the initial investment by a DBS customer exceeds that of a cable customer, the initial equipment cost for DBS has decreased substantially, as the DBS providers have aggressively marketed offers to new customers of incentives for discounted










or free equipment, installation, and multiple units.  DBS providers are able to offer service nationwide and are able to establish a national image and branding with standardized offerings, which together with their ability to avoid franchise fees of up to 5% of revenues and property tax, leads to greater efficiencies and lower costs in the lower tiers of service.  We believe that cable-delivered OnDemand and Subscription OnDemand services, which include HD programming, are superior to DBS service, because cable headends can provide two-way communication to deliver many titles which customers can access and control independently, whereas DBS technology can only make available a much smaller number of titles with DVR-like customer control.  DBS providers have also made attempts at deployment of Internet access services via satellite, but those services have been technically constrained and of limited appeal.



Telephone Companies and Utilities



Incumbent telephone companies, including AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”) and Verizon Communications, Inc. ("Verizon"), offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  These companies are able to offer two-way video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to ours in various portions of their networks.  In the case of Verizon, high-speed data services (fiber optic service (“FiOS”)) offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on internal estimates, we believe that AT&T and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately30%and4%, respectively, of our estimated passings and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the multiple dwelling unit (“MDU”) market.  AT&T has publicly stated that it expects to roll out its video product beyond the territories currently served although it is unclear where and to what extent.  When AT&T or Verizon have introduced or expanded their offering of video products in our market areas, we have seen a decrease in our video revenue as AT&T and Verizon typically roll out aggressive marketing and discounting campaigns to launch their products.



In addition to incumbent telephone companies obtaining franchises or alternative authorizations in some areas, and seeking them in others, they have been successful through various means in reducing or streamlining the franchising requirements applicable to them.  They have had significant success at the federal and state level in securing FCC rulings and numerous statewide franchise laws that facilitate telephone company entry into the video marketplace.  Because telephone companies have been successful in avoiding or reducing franchise and other regulatory requirements that remain applicable to cable operators like us, their competitive posture has often been enhanced.  The large scale entry of incumbent telephone companies as direct competitors in the video marketplace has adversely affected the profitability and valuation of our cable systems.



Most telephone companies, including AT&T and Verizon, which already have plant, an existing customer base, and other operational functions in place (such as billing and service personnel), offer Internet access via traditional DSL service.  DSL service allows Internet access to subscribers at data transmission speeds greater than those formerly available over conventional telephone lines.  We believe DSL service is an alternative to our high-speed Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although typically at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  DSL providers may currently be in a better position to offer voice and data services to businesses since their networks tend to be more complete in commercial areas.  We expect DSL to remain a significant competitor to our high-speed Internet services.



Many large telephone companies also provide fiber-to-the-node or fiber-to-the-home services in select areas of their footprints.  Fiber-to-the-node networks can provide faster Internet speeds than conventional DSL, but still cannot typically match our Internet speeds.  Our primary fiber-to-the-node competitor is AT&T's U-verse.  The competition from U-verse is expected to intensify over time as AT&T completes the expansion plans announced in late 2012.  Fiber-to-the-home networks, however, can provide Internet speeds equal to or greater than Charter's current Internet speeds.  Verizon's FiOS is the primary fiber-to-the-home competitor.



Our voice service competes directly with incumbent telephone companies and other carriers, including Internet-based VoIP providers, for both residential and commercial voice service customers.  Because we offer voice services, we are subject to considerable competition from such companies and other telecommunications providers, including wireless providers with an increasing number of consumers choosing wireless over wired telephone services.  The telecommunications and voice services industry is highly competitive and includes competitors with greater financial and personnel resources, strong brand name recognition, and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Moreover, mergers, joint ventures and alliances among our competitors have resulted in providers capable of offering cable television, Internet, and voice services in direct competition with us.



Additionally, we are subject to limited competition from utilities and/or municipal utilities (collectively, "Utilities") that possess fiber optic transmission lines capable of transmitting signals with minimal signal distortion.  Certain Utilities are also developing broadband over power line technology, which may allow the provision of Internet, phone and other broadband services to homes and offices.












Traditional Overbuilds



Cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises historically granted by state and local authorities.  More than one cable system may legally be built in the same area.  Franchising authorities may grant a second franchise to another cable operator that may contain terms and conditions more favorable than those afforded us.  Well-financed businesses from outside the cable industry, such as public utilities that already possess fiber optic and other transmission lines in the areas they serve, have in some cases become competitors.  There are a number of cities that have constructed their own cable systems, in a manner similar to city-provided utility services.  There also has been interest in traditional cable overbuilds by private companies not affiliated with established local exchange carriers.  Constructing a competing cable system is a capital intensive process which involves a high degree of risk.  We believe that in order to be successful, a competitor’s overbuild would need to be able to serve the homes and businesses in the overbuilt area with equal or better service quality, on a more cost-effective basis than we can.  Any such overbuild operation would require access to capital or access to facilities already in place that are capable of delivering cable television programming. We cannot predict the extent to which additional overbuild situations may occur.



Broadcast Television



Cable television has long competed with broadcast television, which consists of television signals that the viewer is able to receive without charge using an “off-air” antenna.  The extent of such competition is dependent upon the quality and quantity of broadcast signals available through “off-air” reception, compared to the services provided by the local cable system.  Traditionally, cable television has provided higher picture quality and more channel offerings than broadcast television.  However, the recent licensing of digital spectrum by the FCC now provides traditional broadcasters with the ability to deliver HD television pictures and multiple digital-quality program streams, as well as advanced digital services such as subscription video and data transmission.



Internet Delivered Video



Internet access facilitates the streaming of video, including movies and television shows, into homes and businesses.  Increasingly, content owners are using Internet-based delivery of content directly to consumers, some without charging a fee to access the content.  Further, due to consumer electronic innovations, consumers are able to watch such Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices.  We believe some customers have chosen to receive video over the Internet rather than through our VOD and premium video services, thereby reducing our video revenues.  We can not predict the impact that Internet delivered video will have on our revenues and adjusted EBITDA as technologies continue to evolve.



Private Cable



Additional competition is posed by satellite master antenna television systems, or SMATV systems, serving MDUs, such as condominiums, apartment complexes, and private residential communities.  Private cable systems can offer improved reception of local television stations, and many of the same satellite-delivered program services that are offered by cable systems.  Although disadvantaged from a programming cost perspective, SMATV systems currently benefit from operating advantages not available to franchised cable systems, including fewer regulatory burdens and no requirement to service low density or economically depressed communities.  The FCC previously adopted regulations that favor SMATV and private cable operators serving MDU complexes, allowing them to continue to secure exclusive contracts with MDU owners.  This regulatory disparity provides a competitive advantage to certain of our current and potential competitors.



Other Competitors



Local wireless Internet services operate in some markets using available unlicensed radio spectrum.  Various wireless phone companies are now offering third and fourth generation (3G and 4G) wireless high-speed Internet services. In addition, a growing number of commercial areas, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi Internet service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and WiMAX Internet access networks.  Operators are also marketing PC cards and “personal hotspots” offering wireless broadband access to their cellular networks.  These service options offer another alternative to cable-based Internet access.



Regulation and Legislation



The following summary addresses the key regulatory and legislative developments affecting the cable industry and our three primary services for both residential and commercial customers: video service, Internet service, and voice service.  Cable system operations are extensively regulated by the federal government (primarily the FCC), certain state governments, and










many local governments.  A failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial penalties.  Our business can be dramatically impacted by changes to the existing regulatory framework, whether triggered by legislative, administrative, or judicial rulings.  Congress and the FCC have frequently revisited the subject of communications regulation and they are likely to do so again in the future.  We could be materially disadvantaged in the future if we are subject to new regulations that do not equally impact our key competitors.  We cannot provide assurance that the already extensive regulation of our business will not be expanded in the future.



VideoService



Cable Rate Regulation.Federal regulations currently restrict the prices that cable systems charge for the minimum level of video programming service, referred to as “basic service,” and associated equipment.  All other video service offerings are now universally exempt from rate regulation.  Although basic service rate regulation operates pursuant to a federal formula, local governments, commonly referred to as local franchising authorities, are primarily responsible for administering this regulation.  The majority of our local franchising authorities have never been certified to regulate basic service cable rates (and order rate reductions and refunds), but they generally retain the right to do so (subject to potential regulatory limitations under state franchising laws), except in those specific communities facing “effective competition,” as defined under federal law.  We have secured FCC recognition of effective competition, and become rate deregulated, in many of our communities.



There have been frequent calls to impose expanded rate regulation on the cable industry.  Confronted with rapidly increasing cable programming costs, it is possible that Congress may adopt new constraints on the retail pricing or packaging of cable programming.  Any such constraints could adversely affect our operations.



Federal rate regulations include certain marketing restrictions that could affect our pricing and packaging of service tiers and equipment.  As we attempt to respond to a changing marketplace with competitive pricing practices, we may face regulations that impede our ability to compete.



Must Carry/Retransmission Consent.There are two alternative legal methods for carriage of local broadcast television stations on cable systems.  Federal “must carry” regulations require cable systems to carry local broadcast television stations upon the request of the local broadcaster.  Alternatively, federal law includes “retransmission consent” regulations, by which popular commercial television stations can prohibit cable carriage unless the cable operator first negotiates for “retransmission consent,” which may be conditioned on significant payments or other concessions.  Popular stations invoking “retransmission consent” have been demanding substantial compensation increases in their recent negotiations with cable operators, thereby significantly increasing our operating costs.



Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage obligations could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer services that appeal to our customers and generate revenues.



Access Channels.Local franchise agreements often require cable operators to set aside certain channels for public, educational, and governmental access programming.  Federal law also requires cable systems to designate up to 15% of their channel capacity for commercial leased access by unaffiliated third parties, who may offer programming that our customers do not particularly desire.  The FCC adopted new rules in 2007 mandating a significant reduction in the rates that operators can charge commercial leased access users and imposing additional administrative requirements that would be burdensome on the cable industry.  The effect of the FCC's new rules was stayed by a federal court, pending a cable industry appeal and an adverse finding by the Office of Management and Budget.  Although commercial leased access activity historically has been relatively limited, increased activity in this area could further burden the channel capacity of our cable systems.



Ownership Restrictions.Federal regulation of the communications field traditionally included a host of ownership restrictions, which limited the size of certain media entities and restricted their ability to enter into competing enterprises.  Through a series of legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions, most of these restrictions have been either eliminated or substantially relaxed.  Changes in this regulatory area could alter the business environment in which we operate.



Pole Attachments.The Communications Act requires most utilities owning utility poles to provide cable systems with access to poles and conduits and simultaneously subjects the rates charged for this access to either federal or state regulation.  In 2011, the FCC amended its existing pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment.  The 2011 order allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments, but generally strengthens the cable industry's ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms, and conditions.  It specifically maintains the basic rate formula applicable to “cable” attachments, but reduces the rate formula previously applicable to “telecommunications” attachments.  Several electric utilities sought review of the 2011 order at the FCC and the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, and the FCC and the court subsequently affirmed










the new rules.  Although the order maintains the status quo treatment of cable-provided VoIP service as an unclassified service eligible for the favorable cable rate, the issue has not been fully resolved by the FCC, and a potential change in classification in a pending proceeding (as well as an unresolved dispute over the telecommunications rate calculation) could adversely impact our pole attachment rates.



Cable Equipment.

In 1996, Congress enacted a statute requiring the FCC to adopt regulations designed to assure the development of an independent retail market for “navigation devices,” such as cable set-top boxes. As a result, the FCC generally requires cable operators to make a separate offering of security modules (

i.e



MDUs / Inside Wiring.  The FCC has adopted a series of regulations designed to spur competition to established cable operators in MDU complexes.  These regulations allow our competitors to access certain existing cable wiring inside MDUs.  The FCC also adopted regulations limiting the ability of established cable operators, like us, to enter into exclusive service contracts for MDU complexes.  In their current form, the FCC’s regulations in this area favor our competitors.



Privacyand Information Security Regulation.  The Communications Act limits our ability to collect and disclose subscribers’ personally identifiable information for our video, voice, and Internet services, as well as provides requirements to safeguard such information.  We are subject to additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations that impose additional restrictions on the collection, use and disclosure of consumer, subscriber and employee information.  Further, the FCC, FTC, and many states regulate and restrict the marketing practices of cable operators, including telemarketing and online marketing efforts. Various federal agencies, including the FTC, are now considering new restrictions affecting the use of personal and profiling data for online advertising.



Our operations are also subject to federal and state laws governing information security, including rules requiring customer notification in the event of an information security breach.  Congress is considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business.



Other FCC Regulatory Matters.FCC regulations cover a variety of additional areas, including, among other things: (1) equal employment opportunity obligations; (2) customer service standards; (3) technical service standards; (4) mandatory blackouts of certain network, syndicated and sports programming; (5) restrictions on political advertising; (6) restrictions on advertising in children's programming; (7) licensing of systems and facilities; (8) maintenance of public files; (9) emergency alert systems; and (10) disability access, including new requirements governing video-description and closed-captioning.  Each of these regulations restricts our business practices to varying degrees.



It is possible that Congress or the FCC will expand or modify its regulation of cable systems in the future, and we cannot predict at this time how that might impact our business.



Copyright.Cable systems are subject to a federal copyright compulsory license covering carriage of television and radio broadcast signals.  The possible modification or elimination of this compulsory copyright license is the subject of continuing legislative proposals and administrative review and could adversely affect our ability to obtain desired broadcast programming.  Pursuant to the Satellite Television Extension and Localisms Act of 2010 (“STELA”), the Copyright Office, the Government Accountability Office and the FCC all issued reports to Congress in 2011 that generally support an eventual phase-out of the compulsory licenses, although they also acknowledge the potential adverse impact on cable subscribers and the absence of any clear marketplace alternative to the compulsory license.  If adopted, a phase-out plan could adversely affect our ability to obtain certain programming and substantially increase our programming costs.  STELA also establishes a new audit mechanism for copyright owners to review compulsory copyright filings, which the Copyright Office is still in the process of implementing.












Copyright clearances for non-broadcast programming services are arranged through private negotiations.  Cable operators also must obtain music rights for locally originated programming and advertising from the major music performing rights organizations.  These licensing fees have been the source of litigation in the past, and we cannot predict with certainty whether license fee disputes may arise in the future.



Franchise Matters.



The traditional cable franchising regime has recently undergone significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  The FCC has adopted rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce certain franchising burdens for these new entrants.  The FCC adopted more modest relief for existing cable operators.



At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws.  Again, these laws were principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing cable operators.  In many instances, these franchising regimes do not apply to established cable operators until the existing franchise expires or a competitor directly enters the franchise territory.  The exact nature of these state franchising laws, and their varying application to new and existing video providers, will impact our franchising obligations and our competitive position.



Internet Service



On January 14, 2014, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, in Verizon v. FCC, struck down majorportions of the FCC’s 2010 “net neutrality” rules governing the operating practices of broadband Internet access providers like us.  The FCC originally designed the rules to ensure an “open Internet” and included three key requirements for broadband providers:  1) a prohibition against blocking websites or other online applications; 2) a prohibition against unreasonable discrimination among Internet users or among different websites or other sources of information; and 3) a transparency requirement compelling the disclosure of network management policies.  The Court struck down the first two requirements, concluding that they constitute “common carrier” restrictions that are not permissible given the FCC’s earlier decision to classify Internet access as an “information service,” rather than a “telecommunications service.”  The Court upheld the FCC’s transparency requirement and the FCC's authority to adopt regulations regarding the Internet.














Voice Service



The Telecommunications Act of 1996 created a more favorable regulatory environment for us to provide telecommunications and/or competitive voice services than had previously existed.  In particular, it established requirements ensuring that competitive telephone companies could interconnect their networks with those providers of traditional telecommunications services to open the market to competition.  The FCC has subsequently ruled that competitive telephone companies that support VoIP services, such as those we offer our customers, are entitled to interconnection with incumbent providers of traditional telecommunications services, which ensures that our VoIP services can compete in the market.  Since that time, the FCC has initiated a proceeding to determine whether such interconnection rights should extend to traditional and competitive networks utilizing IP technology, and how to encourage the transition to IP networks throughout the industry.  New rules or obligations arising from these proceedings may affect our ability to compete in the provision of voice services.  On November 18, 2011, the FCC released an order significantly changing the rules governing intercarrier compensation payments for the origination and termination of telephone traffic between carriers. The new rules will result in a substantial decrease in intercarrier compensation payments over a multi-year period. We received intercarrier compensation of approximately

$21 million

,

$19 million

and

$23 million

for the years ended

December 31, 2013

,


and


, respectively.  The decreases over the multi-year transition will affect both the amounts that Charter pays to other carriers and the amounts that Charter receives from other carriers. The schedule and magnitude of these decreases, however, will vary depending on the nature of the carriers and the telephone traffic at issue, and the FCC's new ruling initiates further implementation rulemakings. We cannot yet predict with certainty the balance of the impact on Charter's revenues and expenses for voice services at particular times over this multi-year period.





Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2013, we had approximately 21,600 full-time equivalent employees.  AtDecember 31, 2013, approximately 90 of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements.  We have never experienced a work stoppage.





