Item 1. Business.



Introduction



We are among the largest providers of cable services in the United States, offering a variety of entertainment, information and communications solutions to residential and commercial customers.  Our infrastructure consists of a hybrid of fiber and coaxial cable plant passing approximately 11.8 million homes, with 98% of homes passed at 550 megahertz (“MHz”) or greater and 97% of plant miles two-way active. A national Internet Protocol (IP) infrastructure interconnects all Charter Communications, Inc. (“Charter”) markets. See "Item 1. Business— Products and Services"for further description of these terms and services, including"customers."



For the year ended December 31, 2010, we generated approximately $7.1 billion in revenue,of which approximately 52% was generated from our residential video service.We also generated revenue from high-speed Internet, telephone service and advertising with residential and commercial high-speed Internet and telephone service contributing the majority of the recent growth in our revenue.



As of December 31, 2010, we served approximately 5.1 million customers. We sell our video, high-speed Internet and telephone services primarily on a subscription basis, often in a bundle of two or more services, providing savings and convenience to our customers. Bundled services are available to approximately 97% of our homes passed, and approximately 61% of our customers subscribe to a bundle of services.



We served approximately 4.5 million video customers as of December 31, 2010, of which approximately 74% subscribed to digital video service. Digital video enables our customers to access advanced video services such as high definition television, Charter OnDemand™(“OnDemand”)video programming, an interactive program guide and digital video recorder (“DVR”) service.



We also served approximately 3.2 million high-speed Internet customers as of December 31, 2010. Our high-speed Internet service is available in a variety of download speeds up to 60 megabits per second (“Mbps”). We also offer home networking service, or Wi-Fi, enabling our customers to connect up to five computers wirelessly in the home.



We provided telephone service to approximately 1.7 million customers as of December 31, 2010. Our telephone services typically include unlimited local and long distance calling to the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, plus other features, including voicemail, call waiting and caller ID.



Through Charter Business®, we provide scalable, tailored broadband communications solutions to business organizations, such as business-to-business Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers, video and music entertainment services and business telephone.  As of December 31, 2010, we served approximately 263,900 business revenue generating units, including small- and medium-sized commercial customers. Our advertising sales division, Charter Media®, provides local, regional and national businesses with the opportunity to advertise in individual markets on cable television networks.



We have a history of net losses.  Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses, interest expenses that we incur because of our debt and depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made, and continue to make, in our cable properties, and in 2010, amortization expenses resulting from the application of fresh start accounting.



On March 27, 2009, we and certain affiliates filed voluntary petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”), to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”).  The Chapter 11 cases were jointly administered under the caption In re Charter Communications, Inc., et al., Case No. 09-11435.  On May 7, 2009, we filed a Joint Plan of Reorganization (the “Plan”) and a related disclosure statement with the Bankruptcy Court.  The Plan was confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court on November 17, 2009 (the “Confirmation Order”), and became effective on November 30, 2009 (the “Effective Date”), the date on which we emerged from protection under Chapter 11 
of the Bankruptcy Code.



The terms “Charter,” “we,” “our” and “us,” when used in this report with respect to the period prior to Charter’s emergence from bankruptcy, are references to the Debtors (“Predecessor”) and, when used with respect to the period commencing after Charter’s emergence, are references to Charter (“Successor”). These references include the








subsidiaries of Predecessor or Successor, as the case may be, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise.



Our principal executive offices are located at 12405 Powerscourt Drive, St. Louis, Missouri 63131.  Our telephone number is (314) 965-0555, and we have a website accessible at www.charter.com.  Since January 1, 2002, our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, have been made available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this annual report.



Recent Events



On January 11, 2011, CCO Holdings, LLC (“CCO Holdings”) and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. completed the sale of $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of 7.00% senior notes due 2019. The payment obligations under the notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by Charter. On January 24, 2011, CCO Holdings and CCO Holdings Capital Corp. completed the sale of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% senior notes due 2019.  The notes formed part of the same series as the notes issued on January 11, 2011.  Upon completion of this offering, the aggregate principal amount of outstanding notes under this series is $1.4 billion. The net proceeds of the issuances of the notes were contributed by CCO Holdings to Charter Communications Operating, LLC (“Charter Operating
221;) as a capital contribution and were used to repay indebtedness under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of March 31, 2010, between Charter Operating, and various lenders thereunder.



As of December 31, 2010, Paul G. Allen held all 2,241,299 shares of Class B common stock of Charter. As the holder of the Class B common stock, he was entitled to appoint four members of Charter’s board of directors.  Pursuant to the terms of the Certificate of Incorporation of Charter, on January 18, 2011, the Disinterested Members of the Board of Directors of Charter (as such term is defined in Charter’s Certificate of Incorporation) caused a conversion of the shares of Class B common stock into shares of Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. As a result of such conversion, Mr. Allen no longer has the right to appoint four directors and the Class B directors became Class A directors. On January 18, 2011, directors William L. McGrath and Christopher M. Temple, both former Class B directors, resigned from C
harter’s board of directors. Edgar Lee and Stan Parker were appointed to fill the vacant positions.



On February 14, 2011, we announced that Ted Schremp, Executive Vice President, Operations and Marketing had resigned.










Corporate Entity Structure



The chart below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect subsidiaries.  This chart does not include all of our affiliates and subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for presentation purposes.  The equity ownership percentages shown below are approximations and do not give effect to any exercise of then outstanding warrants.  Indebtedness amounts shown below are principal amounts as of December 31, 2010, after giving effect to the issuance of the CCO Holdings notes in January 2011 and the application of proceeds to repay borrowings under the Charter Operating credit facilities.  See Note 7 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” which also includes t
he accreted values of the indebtedness described below.














Charter Communications, Inc.Charter owns 100% of Charter Communications Holding Company, LLC (“Charter Holdco”).  Charter Holdco, through its subsidiaries, owns cable systems.  As sole manager under applicable operating agreements, Charter controls the affairs of Charter Holdco and its limited liability company subsidiaries.  In addition, Charter provides management services to Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries under a management services agreement.



Interim Holding Company Debt Issuers.As indicated in the organizational chart above, our interim holding company debt issuers indirectly own the subsidiaries that own or operate all of our cable systems, subject to a CC VIII, LLC (“CC VIII”) minority interest held by CCH I, LLC (“CCH I”) and Charter as described below.  For a description of the debt issued by these issuers please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Description of Our Outstanding Debt.”



Preferred Equity in CC VIII.At December 31, 2010, Charter owned 30% of the CC VIII preferred membership interests.  CCH I, an indirect subsidiary of Charter, directly owned the remaining 70% of these preferred interests.  The common membership interests in CC VIII are indirectly owned by Charter Operating.



Products and Services



Through our hybrid fiber and coaxial cable network, we offer our customers traditional cable video services (basic and digital, which we refer to as “video” services), high-speed Internet services, and telephone services, as well as advanced video services (such as OnDemand, high definition television, and DVR service).  Our telephone services are primarily provided using voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) technology, to transmit digital voice signals over our systems.  Our video, high-speed Internet, and telephone services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription basis, with prices and related charges that vary primarily based on the types of service selected, whether the services are sold as a “bundle” or on an individual basis, and the equipment 
necessary to receive the services, with some variation in prices.



The following table approximates our customer statistics for video, residential high-speed Internet and telephone as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.



Approximate as ofDecember 31,December 31,2010 (a)2009 (a)Residential (non-bulk) basic video customers (b)4,278,4004,562,900Multi-dwelling (bulk) and commercial unit customers (c)242,000261,100Total basic video customers (b) (c)4,520,4004,824,000Digital video customers (d)3,363,2003,218,100Residential high-speed Internet customers (e)3,246,1003,062,300Residential telephone customers (f)1,717,0001,556,000Total Revenue Generating Units(g)12,846,70012,660,400



After giving effect to sales and acquisitions of cable systems in 2009 and 2010, basic video customers, digital video customers, high-speed Internet customers, and telephone customers would have been 4,747,300, 3,180,700, 3,039,400, and 1,554,300, respectively, as of December 31, 2009.



(a)We calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the monthly billing cycle for each account.  On that basis, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, "customers" include approximately 15,700 and 25,900 persons, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days past due in payment, approximately 1,800 and 3,500 persons, respectively, whose accounts were over 90 days past due in payment, and approximately 1,000 and 2,200 persons, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days past due in payment.



(b)“Basic video customers” include all residential customers who receive video cable services.



(c)Included within "basic video customers" are those in commercial and multi-dwelling structures, which are calculated on an equivalent bulk unit (“EBU”) basis.  We calculate EBUs by dividing the bulk price charged to accounts in an area by the published rate charged to non-bulk residential customers in that market for the comparable tier of service rather than the most prevalent price charged.  This EBU method






of estimating basic video customers is consistent with the methodology used in determining costs paid to programmers and is consistent with the methodology used by other multiple system operators (“MSOs”).  As we increase our published video rates to residential customers without a corresponding increase in the prices charged to commercial service or multi-dwelling customers, our EBU count will decline even if there is no real loss in commercial service or multi-dwelling customers.

(d)"Digital video customers" include all basic video customers that have one or more digital set-top boxes or cable cards deployed.



(e)"Residential high-speed Internet customers" represent those residential customers who subscribe to our high-speed Internet service.

(f)“Residential telephone customers” represent those residential customers who subscribe to our telephone service.(g)"Revenue generating units" represent the sum total of all basic video, digital video, high-speed Internet and telephone customers, not counting additional outlets within one household.  For example, a customer who receives two types of service (such as basic video and digital video) would be treated as two revenue generating units and, if that customer added on high-speed Internet service, the customer would be treated as three revenue generating units.  This statistic is computed in accordance with the guidelines of the National Cable & Telecommunications Association (“NCTA”).

Video Services



In 2010, residential video services represented approximately 52% of our total revenues.  Our video service offerings include the following:



•Basic and Digital Video.All of our video customers receive a package of basic programming which generally consists of local broadcast television, local community programming, including governmental and public access, and limited satellite-delivered or non-broadcast channels, such as weather, shopping and religious programming.  Our digital video services include a digital set-top box, an interactive electronic programming guide with parental controls, an expanded menu of pay-per-view channels, including OnDemand (available nearly everywhere), digital quality music channels and the option to also receive a cable card. In addition to video programming, digital video service enables customers to receive our advanced video services such as DVR
s and high definition television.  Charter also offers premium sports content over the Internet on charter.net.



•Premium Channels.These channels provide original programming, commercial-free movies, sports, and other special event entertainment programming.  Although we offer subscriptions to premium channels on an individual basis, we offer an increasing number of digital video channel packages and premium channel packages, and we offer premium channels combined with our advanced video services.  Customers who purchase premium channels also have access to that programming OnDemand and increasingly over the Internet.



•OnDemand, Subscription OnDemand and Pay-Per-View.OnDemand service allows customers to select from hundreds of movies and other programming at any time.  These programming options may be accessed for a fee or, in some cases, for no additional charge.  In some areas we also offer subscription OnDemand for a monthly fee or included in a digital tier premium channel subscription.  Pay-per-view channels allow customers to pay on a per event basis to view a single showing of a recently released movie, a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or similar event on a commercial-free basis.



•High Definition Television.High definition television offers our digital customers certain video programming at a higher resolution to improve picture and audio quality versus standard basic or digital video images.  We have invested and continue to invest in switched digital video (“SDV”) technology and simulcast to increase the number of high definition channels offered.



•Digital Video Recorder.DVR service enables customers to digitally record programming and to pause and rewind live programming.








We recently announced a multi-year agreement with TiVo, Inc. (“TiVo”) that will leverage the TiVo user interface to bring an enhanced entertainment experience to customers using a hybrid platform that leverages traditional­ cable and next generation IP technologies.



High-Speed Internet Services



In 2010, residential high-speed Internet services represented approximately 23% of our total revenues.  We currently offer several tiers of high-speed Internet services with speeds up to 60 megabytes per second download speed to our residential customers via cable modems attached to personal computers.  We also offer home networking gateways to these customers, which permit customers to connect up to five computers in their home to the Internet simultaneously.  We are rolling out DOCSIS 3.0 wideband technology allowing us to offer faster high-speed Internet service.



Telephone Services



In 2010, residential telephone services represented approximately 12% of our total revenues.  We provide voice communications services primarily using VoIP technology to transmit digital voice signals over our systems.  Charter Telephone includes unlimited nationwide and in-state calling, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other features.  Charter Telephone® also provides international calling either by the minute or in a package of 250 minutes per month.



Commercial Services



In 2010, commercial services represented approximately 7% of our total revenues.  Commercial services, offered through Charter Business™, include scalable broadband communications solutions for business organizations, such as business-to-business Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers, video and music entertainment services, and business telephone.We are investing in commercial business for connection growth and scaling operating platforms and systems for larger and broader customer needs.



Sale of Advertising



In 2010, sales of advertising represented approximately 4% of our total revenues.  We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising on satellite-delivered networks such as MTV®, CNN® and ESPN®.  In any particular market, we generally insert local advertising on up to 40 channels.  We also provide cross-channel advertising to some programmers.



In 2010, Charter began deployment of Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format (“EBIF”) technology to set top boxes in select service areas within the Charter footprint.  EBIF is a technology foundation that will allow Charter to deliver enhanced and interactive television applications and enable our video customers to use their remote control to interact with their television programming and its advertisements.  EBIF will enable Charter’s customers to request such items as coupons, samples, and brochures from advertisers and also will enable advertisers to reach audiences in new ways.



From time to time, certain of our vendors, including programmers and equipment vendors, have purchased advertising from us.  For the years ending December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we had advertising revenues from vendors of approximately $46 million, $41 million, and $39 million, respectively.  These revenues resulted from purchases at market rates pursuant to binding agreements.



Pricing of Our Products and Services



Our revenues are derived principally from the monthly fees customers pay for the services we provide.  We typically charge a one-time installation fee which is sometimes waived or discounted during certain promotional periods.  The prices we charge for our products and services vary based on the level of service the customer chooses and the geographic market.  In accordance with FCC rules, the prices we charge for video cable-related equipment, such as set-top boxes and remote control devices, and for installation services, are based on actual costs plus a permitted rate of return in regulated markets.



We offer reduced-price service for promotional periods in order to attract new customers, to promote the bundling of two or more services and to retain existing customers.  We often also offer a two-year price guarantee to our customers. There is no assurance that these customers will remain as customers when the promotional pricing period








expires.  When customers bundle services, generally the prices are lower per service than if they had only purchased a single service.  Approximately 61% of our customers subscribe to a bundle of services.



Our Network Technology



Our network utilizes the hybrid fiber coaxial cable (“HFC”) architecture, which combines the use of fiber optic cable with coaxial cable.  In most systems, we deliver our signals via fiber optic cable from the headend to a group of nodes, and use coaxial cable to deliver the signal from individual nodes to the homes passed served by that node.  On average, our system design enables up to 400 homes passed to be served by a single node and provides for six strands of fiber to each node, with two strands activated and four strands reserved for spares and future services.  We believe that this hybrid network design provides high capacity and signal quality.  The design also provides two-way signal capacity for the addition of further interactive services.



HFC architecture benefits include:



•bandwidth capacity to enable traditional and two-way video and broadband services;•dedicated bandwidth for two-way services, which avoids return signal interference problems that can occur with two-way communication capability; and•signal quality and high service reliability.



The following table sets forth the technological capacity of our systems as of December 31, 2010 based on a percentage of homes passed:



Less thanTwo-way550 MHz550 MHz750 MHz860/870 MHzactivated2%5%46%47%97%



Approximately 98% of our homes passed are served by systems that have bandwidth of 550 megahertz or greater.  This bandwidth capacity enables us to offer digital television, high-speed Internet services, telephone service and other advanced video services.



Through system upgrades and divestitures of non-strategic systems, we have reduced the number of headends that serve our customers from 1,138 at January 1, 2001 to 204 at December 31, 2010.  Headends are the control centers of a cable system.  Reducing the number of headends reduces related equipment, service personnel, and maintenance expenditures.  As of December 31, 2010, approximately 93% of our customers were served by headends serving at least 10,000 customers.



As of December 31, 2010, our cable systems consisted of approximately 195,000 aerial and underground miles of coaxial cable, and approximately 55,000 aerial and underground miles of fiber optic cable, passing approximately 11.8 million households and serving approximately 5.1 million customers.



Charter has built and activated a national transport backbone inter-connecting 95% of Charter’s local and regional networks.  The backbone is highly scalable enabling efficient and timely transport of Internet traffic, voice traffic, and high definition video content distribution.



In 2010, we deployed DOCSIS 3.0 wideband technology to 57% of our homes passed allowing us to offer faster high-speed Internet service.  In 2011, we expect our roll-out of DOCSIS 3.0 to be substantially complete.  We have also deployed SDV technology to accommodate the increasing demands for greater capacity in our network.  SDV technology expands network capacity by transmitting only those digital and HD video channels that are being watched within a given grouping of homes at any given time which allows us to expand bandwidth for additional services.  As of December 31, 2010, 63% of our homes passed received some portion of their video service via SDV technology, and we expect to substantially complete our roll-out of SDV technology in 2011.



Management, Customer Care and Marketing



Our corporate office, which includes employees of Charter, is responsible for coordinating and overseeing operations including establishing company-wide policies and procedures.  The corporate office performs certain financial and administrative functions on a centralized basis and performs these services on a cost reimbursement








basis pursuant to a management services agreement with one of our subsidiaries.  Our field operations are managed by geographic areas with shared service centers for our field sales and marketing function, human resources and training function, finance, and certain areas of customer operations.



Our customer care centers are managed centrally.  We have eight internal customer care locations including our “centers of excellence” which route calls to the appropriate agents, plus several third-party call center locations that through technology and procedures function as an integrated system.  We provide service to our customers 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  We also utilize our website to enable our customers to view and pay their bills online, obtain information regarding their account or services, and perform various equipment troubleshooting procedures.  Our customers may also obtain support through our on-line chat and e-mail functionality.



Our marketing strategy emphasizes our bundled services through targeted marketing programs to existing and potential customers and increases awareness and value of the Charter brand.  Marketing expenditures increased by $14 million, or 5%, over the year ended December 31, 2009 to $286 million for the year ended December 31, 2010.  Our marketing organization creates and executes marketing programs intended to increase customers, retain existing customers and cross-sell additional products to current customers.  We monitor the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, customer perception, competition, pricing, and service preferences, among other factors, to increase our responsiveness to our customers.



Programming



General



We believe that offering a wide variety of programming influences a customer’s decision to subscribe to and retain our cable services.  We rely on market research, customer demographics and local programming preferences to determine channel offerings in each of our markets.  We obtain basic and premium programming from a number of suppliers, usually pursuant to written contracts.  Our programming contracts generally continue for a fixed period of time, usually from three to ten years, and are subject to negotiated renewal.  Some programming suppliers offer financial incentives to support the launch of a channel and/or ongoing marketing support.  We also negotiate volume discount pricing structures.  Programming costs are usually payable each month based on calculations p
erformed by us and are generally subject to annual cost escalations and audits by the programmers.



Costs



Programming is usually made available to us for a license fee, which is generally paid based on the number of customers to whom we make such programming available.  Such license fees may include “volume” discounts available for higher numbers of customers, as well as discounts for channel placement or service penetration.  Some channels are available without cost to us for a limited period of time, after which we pay for the programming.  For home shopping channels, we receive a percentage of the revenue attributable to our customers’ purchases, as well as, in some instances, incentives for channel placement.



Our programming costs have increased in every year we have operated in excess of customary inflationary and cost-of-living type increases.  We expect them to continue to increase, and at a higher rate than in 2010, due to a variety of factors including amounts paid for retransmission consent, annual increases imposed by programmers and additional programming, including high-definition and OnDemand programming.  In particular, sports programming costs have increased significantly over the past several years.  In addition, contracts to purchase sports programming sometimes provide for optional additional programming to be available on a surcharge basis during the term of the contract.



Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime.  When a station opts for the retransmission-consent regime, we are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission.  Continuing demands by owners of broadcast stations for carriage of other services or cash payments to those broadcasters in exchange for retransmission consent will likely increase our programming costs or require us to cease carriage of popular programming, potentially leading to a loss of customers in affected markets.



Over the past several years, increases in our video service rates have not fully offset increasing programming costs, and with the impact of increasing competition and other marketplace factors, we do not expect them to do so in the foreseeable future.  In addition, our inability to fully pass these programming cost increases on to our video








customers has had and is expected in the future to have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.In order to mitigate reductions of our operating margins due to rapidly increasing programming costs, we continue to review our pricing and programming packaging strategies, and we plan to continue to migrate certain program services from our basic level of service to our digital tiers.  As we migrate our programming to our digital tier packages, certain programming that was previously available to all of our customers via an analog signal may only be part of an elective digital tier package offered to our customers for an additional fee.  As a result, we expect that the customer base upon which we pay programm
ing fees will proportionately decrease, and the overall expense for providing that service will also decrease.  However, reductions in the size of certain programming customer bases may result in the loss of specific volume discount benefits.



We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2011.  We will seek to renegotiate the terms of these agreements.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which may result in a loss of customers.



Franchises



As of December 31, 2010, our systems operated pursuant to a total of approximately 3,000 franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by local and state governmental authorities.  Such governmental authorities often must approve a transfer to another party.  Most franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material breach.  In addition, most franchises require us to pay the granting authority a franchise fee of up to 5.0% of revenues as defined in the various agreements, which is the maximum amount that may be charged under the applicable federal law.  We are entitled to and generally do pass this fee through to the customer.



Prior to the scheduled expiration of most franchises, we generally initiate renewal proceedings with the granting authorities.  This process usually takes three years but can take a longer period of time.  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), which is the primary federal statute regulating interstate communications, provides for an orderly franchise renewal process in which granting authorities may not unreasonably withhold renewals.  In connection with the franchise renewal process, many governmental authorities require the cable operator to make certain commitments, such as building out certain of the franchise areas, customer service requirements, and supporting and carrying public access channels.  Historically we have been able to renew our franc
hises without incurring significant costs, although any particular franchise may not be renewed on commercially favorable terms or otherwise.  Our failure to obtain renewals of our franchises, especially those in the major metropolitan areas where we have the most customers, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or our liquidity, including our ability to comply with our debt covenants.  See “— Regulation and Legislation — Video Services — Franchise Matters.”



Competition



We face competition for both residential and commercial customers in the areas of price, service offerings, and service reliability.  We compete with other providers of video, high-speed Internet access, telephone services, and other sources of home entertainment.  We operate in a very competitive business environment, which can adversely affect the results of our business and operations.  We cannot predict the impact on us of broadband services offered by our competitors.



In terms of competition for customers, we view ourselves as a member of the broadband communications industry, which encompasses multi-channel video for television and related broadband services, such as high-speed Internet, telephone, and other interactive video services.  In the broadband communications industry, our principal competitor for video services throughout our territory is direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) and our principal competitor for high-speed Internet services is DSL service provided by telephone companies.  Our principal competitors for telephone services are established telephone companies, other telephone service providers, and other carriers, including VoIP providers.  Based on telephone companies’ entry into video service and the upgrades of their networks, they 
have become significant competitors for both high-speed Internet and video customers.  At this time, we do not consider other cable operators to be significant competitors in our overall market, as overbuilds are infrequent and geographically spotty (although in any particular market, a cable operator overbuilder would likely be a significant competitor at the local level).








Our key competitors include:



DBS



Direct broadcast satellite is a significant competitor to cable systems.  The two largest DBS providers now serve more than 33 million subscribers nationwide.  DBS service allows the subscriber to receive video services directly via satellite using a dish antenna.





Telephone Companies and Utilities



Our telephone service competes directly with established telephone companies and other carriers, including Internet-based VoIP providers, for voice service customers.  Because we offer voice services, we are subject to considerable competition from telephone companies and other telecommunications providers, including wireless providers with an increasing number of consumers choosing wireless over wired telephone services.  The telecommunications and competitive voice services industry is highly competitive and includes competitors with greater financial and personnel resources, strong brand name recognition, and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Moreover, mergers, joint ventures and alliances among our competitors have resulted in providers capable of offering cable te
levision, Internet, and telephone services in direct competition with us.



Most telephone companies, which already have plant, an existing customer base, and other operational functions in place (such as billing and service personnel), offer DSL service.  DSL service allows Internet access to subscribers at data transmission speeds greater than those available over conventional telephone lines.  We believe DSL service is competitive with high-speed Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although typically at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  However, DSL providers may currently be in a better position to offer data services to businesses since their networks tend to be more complete in commercial areas.  We expect DSL to remain a significant competitor to our high-speed Internet services.  In addition, the conti
nuing deployment of fiber optics into telephone companies’ networks (primarily by Verizon Communications, Inc. (“Verizon”)) will enable them to provide even higher bandwidth Internet services.



Telephone companies, including AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”) and Verizon, offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  Upgraded portions of these networks carry two-way video, data services and provide digital voice services similar to ours.  In the case of Verizon, high-speed data services (fiber optic service (“FiOS”)) offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on internal estimates, we believe that AT&T and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately 24% to 29% and 3%, respectively, of our
 estimated homes passed as of December 31, 2010 and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the multiple dwelling unit (“MDU”) market.  Additional upgrades and product launches are expected in markets in which we operate.



In addition to telephone companies obtaining franchises or alternative authorizations in some areas, and seeking them in others, they have been successful through various means in reducing or streamlining the franchising requirements applicable to them.  They have had significant success at the federal and state level in securing FCC








rulings and numerous statewide franchise laws that facilitate telephone company entry into the video marketplace.  Because telephone companies have been successful in avoiding or reducing franchise and other regulatory requirements that remain applicable to cable operators like us, their competitive posture has often been enhanced.  The large scale entry of major telephone companies as direct competitors in the video marketplace has adversely affected the profitability and valuation of our cable systems.



Additionally, we are subject to limited competition from utilities that possess fiber optic transmission lines capable of transmitting signals with minimal signal distortion.  Certain utilities are also developing broadband over power line technology, which may allow the provision of Internet and other broadband services to homes and offices.



Broadcast Television



Cable television has long competed with broadcast television, which consists of television signals that the viewer is able to receive without charge using an “off-air” antenna.  The extent of such competition is dependent upon the quality and quantity of broadcast signals available through “off-air” reception, compared to the services provided by the local cable system.  Traditionally, cable television has provided higher picture quality and more channel offerings than broadcast television.  However, the recent licensing of digital spectrum by the FCC now provides traditional broadcasters with the ability to deliver high definition television pictures and multiple digital-quality program streams, as well as advanced digital services such as subscription video and data transmission.<
/font>



Traditional Overbuilds



Cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises historically granted by state and local authorities.  More than one cable system may legally be built in the same area.  It is possible that a franchising authority might grant a second franchise to another cable operator and that such franchise might contain terms and conditions more favorable than those afforded us.  Well-financed businesses from outside the cable industry, such as public utilities that already possess fiber optic and other transmission lines in the areas they serve, may over time become competitors.  There are a number of cities that have constructed their own cable systems, in a manner similar to city-provided utility services.  There also has been interest in traditional cable overbuilds by private companies
 not affiliated with established local exchange carriers.  Constructing a competing cable system is a capital intensive process which involves a high degree of risk.  We believe that in order to be successful, a competitor’s overbuild would need to be able to serve the homes and businesses in the overbuilt area with equal or better service quality, on a more cost-effective basis than we can.  Any such overbuild operation would require access to capital or access to facilities already in place that are capable of delivering cable television programming.



As of December 31, 2010, excluding telephone companies, we are aware of traditional overbuild situations impacting approximately 7% to 9% of our total homes passed and potential traditional overbuild situations in areas servicing approximately an additional 1% of our total homes passed.  Additional overbuild situations may occur.



Private Cable



Additional competition is posed by satellite master antenna television systems, or SMATV systems, serving MDUs, such as condominiums, apartment complexes, and private residential communities.  Private cable systems can offer improved reception of local television stations, and many of the same satellite-delivered program services that are offered by cable systems.  Although disadvantaged from a programming cost perspective, SMATV systems currently benefit from operating advantages not available to franchised cable systems, including fewer regulatory burdens and no requirement to service low density or economically depressed communities.  The FCC previously adopted regulations that favor SMATV and private cable operators serving MDU complexes, allowing them to continue to secure exclusive contracts with MDU
 owners.  This regulatory disparity provides a competitive advantage to certain of our current and potential competitors.



Other Competitors



Local wireless Internet services operate in some markets using available unlicensed radio spectrum.  Various wireless phone companies are now offering third and fourth generation (3G and 4G) wireless high-speed Internet services. In addition, a growing number of commercial areas, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi Internet service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi and WiMAX Internet access networks.  Operators are also marketing PC cards and “personal hotspots” offering wireless broadband access to their cellular networks.  These service options offer another alternative to cable-based Internet access.








Internet Delivered Video



High-speed Internet access facilitates the streaming of video into homes and businesses.  As the quality and availability of video streaming over the Internet improves, we expect video streaming to compete with the traditional delivery of video programming services over cable systems.  It is possible that programming suppliers will consider bypassing cable operators and market their services directly to the consumer through video streaming over the Internet.  If customers were to choose to receive video over the Internet rather than through our basic or digital video services, we could experience a reduction in our video revenues.



Regulation and Legislation



The following summary addresses the key regulatory and legislative developments affecting the cable industry and our three primary services for both residential and commercial customers: video service, high-speed Internet service, and telephone service.  Cable system operations are extensively regulated by the federal government (primarily the FCC), certain state governments, and many local governments.  A failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial penalties.  Our business can be dramatically impacted by changes to the existing regulatory framework, whether triggered by legislative, administrative, or judicial rulings.  Congress and the FCC have frequently revisited the subject of communications regulation often designed to increase competition to the cable industry,
 and they are likely to do so in the future.  We could be materially disadvantaged in the future if we are subject to new regulations that do not equally impact our key competitors.  We cannot provide assurance that the already extensive regulation of our business will not be expanded in the future.



VideoService



Cable Rate Regulation.The cable industry has operated under a federal rate regulation regime for more than a decade.  The regulations currently restrict the prices that cable systems charge for the minimum level of video programming service, referred to as “basic service,” and associated equipment.  All other cable offerings are now universally exempt from rate regulation.  Although basic service rate regulation operates pursuant to a federal formula, local governments, commonly referred to as local franchising authorities, are primarily responsible for administering this regulation.  The majority of our local franchising authorities have never been certified to regulate basic service cable rates (
and order rate reductions and refunds), but they generally retain the right to do so (subject to potential regulatory limitations under state franchising laws), except in those specific communities facing “effective competition,” as defined under federal law.  We have already secured FCC recognition of effective competition, and become rate deregulated, in many of our communities.



There have been frequent calls to impose expanded rate regulation on the cable industry.  Confronted with rapidly increasing cable programming costs, it is possible that Congress may adopt new constraints on the retail pricing or packaging of cable programming.  For example, there has been legislative and regulatory interest in requiring cable operators to offer historically combined programming services on an à la carte basis. Any such mandate could adversely affect our operations.



Federal rate regulations generally require cable operators to allow subscribers to purchase premium or pay-per-view services without the necessity of subscribing to any tier of service, other than the basic service tier.  The applicability of this rule in certain situations remains unclear, and adverse decisions by the FCC could affect our pricing and packaging of services.  As we attempt to respond to a changing marketplace with competitive pricing practices, such as targeted promotions and discounts, we may face Communications Act uniform pricing requirements that impede our ability to compete.



Must Carry/Retransmission Consent.There are two alternative legal methods for carriage of local broadcast television stations on cable systems.  Federal “must carry” regulations require cable systems to carry local broadcast television stations upon the request of the local broadcaster.  Alternatively, federal law includes “retransmission consent” regulations, by which popular commercial television stations can prohibit cable carriage unless the cable operator first negotiates for “retransmission consent,” which may be conditioned on significant payments or other concessions.  Broadcast stations must elect “must carry” or “retransmission consent” every three ye
ars, with the election date of October 1, 2008, for the current period of 2009 through 2011.  Either option has a potentially adverse effect on our business by utilizing bandwidth capacity.  In addition, popular stations invoking “retransmission consent” increasingly have been demanding cash compensation in their negotiations with cable operators.








In September 2007, the FCC adopted an order increasing the cable industry’s existing must-carry obligations by requiring most cable operators to offer “must carry” broadcast signals in both analog and digital format (dual carriage) for a three year period after the broadcast television industry completed its ongoing transition from an analog to digital format, which occurred on June 12, 2009.  The burden could increase further if cable systems were ever required to carry multiple program streams included within a single digital broadcast transmission (multicast carriage), which the recent FCC order did not mandate.  Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage obligations could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our
 ability to offer services that appeal to our customers and generate revenues.  We may need to take additional operational steps and/or make further operating and capital investments to ensure that customers, not otherwise equipped to receive digital programming, retain access to broadcast programming.



Access Channels.Local franchise agreements often require cable operators to set aside certain channels for public, educational, and governmental access programming.  Federal law also requires cable systems to designate a portion of their channel capacity for commercial leased access by unaffiliated third parties, who generally offer programming that our customers do not particularly desire.  The FCC adopted new rules in 2007 mandating a significant reduction in the rates that operators can charge commercial leased access users and imposing additional administrative requirements that would be burdensome on the cable industry.  The effect of the FCC’s new rules was stayed by a federal court, pending a cable industry
 appeal and a finding that the new rules did not comply with the requirements of the Office of Management and Budget.  Under federal statute, commercial leased access programmers are entitled to use up to 15% of a cable system’s capacity.  Increased activity in this area could further burden the channel capacity of our cable systems, and potentially limit the amount of services we are able to offer and may necessitate further investments to expand our network capacity.



Access to Programming.The Communications Act and the FCC’s “program access” rules generally prevent satellite cable programming vendors in which a cable operator has an attributable interest and satellite broadcast programming vendors from favoring cable operators over competing multichannel video distributors, such as DBS, and limit the ability of such vendors to offer exclusive programming arrangements to cable operators.  Given the heightened competition and media consolidation that we face, it is possible that we will find it increasingly difficult to gain access to popular programming at favorable terms.  Such difficulty could adversely impact our business.



Ownership Restrictions.Federal regulation of the communications field traditionally included a host of ownership restrictions, which limited the size of certain media entities and restricted their ability to enter into competing enterprises.  Through a series of legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions, most of these restrictions have been either eliminated or substantially relaxed.  Changes in this regulatory area could alter the business environment in which we operate.



Pole Attachments.

Notice of Proposed Rul
emaking



Cable Equipment.In 1996, Congress enacted a statute requiring the FCC to adopt regulations designed to assure the development of an independent retail market for “navigation devices,” such as cable set-top boxes.  As a result, the FCC required cable operators to make a separate offering of security modules (i.e., a “CableCARD”) that can be used with retail navigation devices, and to use these separate security modules even in their own set-top boxes deployed after July 1, 2007.  This requirement, known as the “integration ban,” has increased the cost of set-top boxes  The FCC has, however, recently granted waivers that allow 
cable operators to use low-cost, one-way set-top boxes (without recording capability) that do not include CableCARDs.  The FCC’s National Broadband Plan acknowledges that the








existing CableCARD rules have not resulted in a competitive retail market for navigation devices.  In response to this finding, the FCC commenced a proceeding in April 2010 to adopt standards for a successor technology to CableCARD that would involve the development of smart video devices that are compatible with any multichannel video programming distributorservice in the United States.  In October 2010, the FCC adopted new interim CableCARD rules applicable until a successor solution emerges.  The new rules require cable operators to allow customers to self-install CableCARDs.  They also require cable operators to provide and advertise a reasonable discount if subscribers use their own equipment, rather than using the o
perator-provided equipment otherwise included in a bundled package.  The FCC’s actions in this area could impose additional costs on us and affect our ability to innovate.



MDUs / Inside Wiring.  The FCC has adopted a series of regulations designed to spur competition to established cable operators in MDU complexes.  These regulations allow our competitors to access certain existing cable wiring inside MDUs.  The FCC also adopted regulations limiting the ability of established cable operators, like us, to enter into exclusive service contracts for MDU complexes.  Significantly, it has not yet imposed a similar restriction on private cable operators and SMATV systems serving MDU properties.  In their current form, the FCC’s regulations in this area favor our competitors.



PrivacyRegulation.  The Communications Act limits our ability to collect and disclose subscribers’ personally identifiable information for our video, telephone, and high-speed Internet services, as well as provides requirements to safeguard such information.  We are subject to additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations that impose additional subscriber and employee privacy restrictions.  Further, the FCC, FTC, and many states regulate and restrict the marketing practices of cable operators, including telemarketing and online marketing efforts. Various federal agencies, including the FTC, are now considering new restrictions affecting t
he use of personal and profiling data for online advertising.



Other FCC Regulatory Matters.FCC regulations cover a variety of additional areas, including, among other things: (1) equal employment opportunity obligations; (2) customer service standards; (3) technical service standards; (4) mandatory blackouts of certain network, syndicated and sports programming; (5) restrictions on political advertising; (6) restrictions on advertising in children's programming; (7) restrictions on origination cablecasting; (8) restrictions on carriage of lottery programming; (9) sponsorship identification obligations; (10) closed captioning of video programming; (11) licensing of systems and facilities; (12) maintenance of public files; and (13) emergency alert systems.  Each of these regulations restricts our busin
ess practices to varying degrees.



It is possible that Congress or the FCC will expand or modify its regulation of cable systems in the future, and we cannot predict at this time how that might impact our business.



Copyright.Cable systems are subject to a federal copyright compulsory license covering carriage of television and radio broadcast signals.  The possible modification or elimination of this compulsory copyright license is the subject of continuing legislative and administrative review and could adversely affect our ability to obtain desired broadcast programming.  The Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 revised cable’s existing compulsory copyright license to remove certain uncertainties regarding the license’s operation, including the royalty calculation for broadcast signals that are offered to only some portions of a cable system and the treatment of new digital broadcast signals.  The 
new legislation requires cable systems to pay an additional royalty fee for each digital multicast of a retransmitted distant broadcast signal and provides copyright owners with a new right to audit our semi-annual royalty filings.



Copyright clearances for non-broadcast programming services are arranged through private negotiations.  Cable operators also must obtain music rights for locally originated programming and advertising from the major music performing rights organizations.  These licensing fees have been the source of litigation in the past, and we cannot predict with certainty whether license fee disputes may arise in the future.



Franchise Matters.Cable systems generally are operated pursuant to nonexclusive franchises granted by a municipality or other state or local government entity in order to utilize and cross public rights-of-way.  Although some state franchising laws grant indefinite franchises, cable franchises generally are granted for fixed terms and in many cases include monetary penalties for noncompliance and may be terminable if the franchisee fails to comply with material provisions.  The specific terms and conditions of cable franchises vary significantly between jurisdictions.  Each franchise generally contains provisions governing cable operations, franchise fees, system construction, maintenance, technical performance, custome
r service standards, and changes in the ownership of the franchisee.  A number of states subject cable systems to the jurisdiction of centralized state government agencies, such as public utility commissions.  Although local franchising authorities have considerable discretion in establishing franchise terms, certain federal protections benefit cable operators.  For example, federal law caps local








franchise fees and includes renewal procedures designed to protect incumbent franchisees from arbitrary denials of renewal.  Even if a franchise is renewed, however, the local franchising authority may seek to impose new and more onerous requirements as a condition of renewal.  Similarly, if a local franchising authority's consent is required for the purchase or sale of a cable system, the local franchising authority may attempt to impose more burdensome requirements as a condition for providing its consent.



The traditional cable franchising regime is currently undergoing significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  In a series of recent rulemakings, the FCC adopted new rules that streamlined entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduced certain franchising burdens for these new entrants.  The FCC adopted more modest relief for existing cable operators.



At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted franchising laws.  Again, these laws were principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing cable operators.  In many instances, these franchising regimes do not apply to established cable operators until the existing franchise expires or a competitor directly enters the franchise territory.  In a number of instances, however, incumbent cable operators have the ability to immediately “opt into” the new franchising regime, which can provide significant regulatory relief.  The exact nature of these state franchising laws, and their varying application to new and existing video providers, will impact our franchis
ing obligations and our competitive position.



Internet Service



Over the past several years, proposals have been advanced at the FCC and Congress to adopt “net neutrality” rules that would require cable operators offering Internet service to provide non-discriminatory access to their networks and could interfere with the ability of cable operators to manage their networks.



As the Internet has matured, it has become the subject of increasing regulatory interest.  Congress and federal regulators have adopted a wide range of measures directly or potentially affecting Internet use, including, for example, consumer privacy, copyright protections (which afford copyright owners certain rights against us that could adversely affect our relationship with a customer accused of violating copyright laws), defamation liability, taxation, obscenity, and unsolicited commercial e-mail.  Content owners may also seek additional enforcement mechanisms for Internet service providers to address the issue of peer-to-peer copyright infringement through private contractual negotiations and other means.  Additionally, the FCC and Congress are considering subjecting high-speed Internet access service
s to the Universal Service funding requirements.  These funding requirements could impose significant new costs on our high-speed Internet service.  State and local governmental organizations








have also adopted Internet-related regulations.  These various governmental jurisdictions are also considering additional regulations in these and other areas, such as pricing, service and product quality, and intellectual property ownership.  The adoption of new Internet regulations or the adaptation of existing laws to the Internet could adversely affect our business.



Telephone Service





Employees



As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 16,600 full-time equivalent employees.  At December 31, 2010, approximately 67 of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements.  We have never experienced a work stoppage.



