Item 1.Business.



Introduction



We are among the largest providers of cable services in the United States, offering a variety of entertainment, information and communications solutions to residential and commercial customers.  Our infrastructure consists of a hybrid of fiber and coaxial cable plant with approximately12.8 millionestimated passings, with98%at 550 megahertz (“MHz”) or greater,99%of plant miles two-way active and 99% of plant all-digital. A national Internet Protocol (“IP”) infrastructure interconnects Charter Communications, Inc. (“Charter”) markets. See “Item 1. Business — Products and Services” for further description of these terms and services, including "customers."



As ofDecember 31, 2015, we served approximately6.7 millionresidential and small and medium business customers.  We sell our video, Internet and voice services primarily on a subscription basis, often in a bundle of two or more services, providing savings and convenience to our customers. Bundled services are available to approximately98%of our passings, and approximately61%of our customers subscribe to a bundle of services.



We served approximately4.3 millionresidential video customers as ofDecember 31, 2015. We completed our all-digital rollout in 2014 and substantially all of our markets now offer over 200 HD channels and faster Internet speeds.  We have launched the Charter Spectrum® brand in our all-digital markets.  Digital video enables our customers to access advanced video services such as high definition ("HD") television, video on demand programming, an interactive program guide and digital video recorder (“DVR”) service.



We also served approximately5.2 millionresidential Internet customers as ofDecember 31, 2015. Our Internet service is available in a variety of download speeds of up to 100 megabits per second (“Mbps”), and up to 120 Mbps in certain markets, and upload speeds of up to 5 Mbps.  Approximately 88% of our Internet customers have at least 60 Mbps download speed.



We provided voice service to approximately2.6 millionresidential customers as ofDecember 31, 2015. Our voice services typically include unlimited local and long distance calling to the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, plus other features, including voicemail, call waiting and caller ID.



Through Spectrum Business®, we provide scalable, tailored broadband communications solutions to business and carrier organizations, such as video entertainment services, Internet access, business telephone services, data networking and fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings.  As ofDecember 31, 2015, we served approximately671,000small and medium business primary service units ("PSUs") and30,000enterprise PSUs.  Our advertising sales division, Spectrum Reach®, provides local, regional and national businesses with the opportunity to advertise in individual markets on cable television networks.



For the year endedDecember 31, 2015, we generated approximately$9.8 billionin revenue, of which approximately83%was generated from our residential video, Internet and voice services. We also generated revenue from providing video, Internet, voice and fiber connectivity services to commercial businesses and from the sale of advertising.  Sales from residential Internet and triple play customers (customers receiving all three service offerings, video, Internet and voice) and from commercial services have contributed to the majority of our recent revenue growth.



We have a history of net losses.  Our net losses are principally attributable to insufficient revenue to cover the combination of operating expenses, interest expenses that we incur on our debt, depreciation expenses resulting from the capital investments we have made, and continue to make, in our cable properties, amortization expenses related to our customer relationship intangibles and non-cash taxes resulting from increases in our deferred tax liabilities.



Our principal executive offices are located at 400 Atlantic Street, Stamford, Connecticut 06901.  Our telephone number is (203) 905-7801, and we have a website accessible at www.charter.com.  Our annual reports, quarterly reports and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments thereto, are available on our website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed.  The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this annual report.



TWC Transaction



On May 23, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Mergers (the “Merger Agreement”) with Time Warner Cable Inc. ("TWC"), CCH I, LLC (“New Charter”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Charter; Nina Corporation I, Inc., Nina Company II, LLC,












Bright House Transaction



On March 31, 2015, we entered into a definitive Contribution Agreement (the “Contribution Agreement”), which was amended on May 23, 2015 in connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement, with Advance/Newhouse Partnership (“A/N”), A/NPC Holdings LLC, New Charter and Charter Communications Holdings, LLC (“Charter Holdings”), our wholly owned subsidiary, pursuant to which Charter would become the owner of the membership interests in Bright House Networks, LLC (“Bright House”) and any other assets (other than certain excluded assets and liabilities and non-operating cash) primarily related to Bright House (the “Bright House Transaction”). At closing, Charter Holdings will pay to A/N approximately $2 billion in cash and issue to A/N convertible preferred units of Charter Holdings with a face amount of $2.5 billion which will pay a 6% coupon, and approximately 34.3 million common units of Charter Holdings that are exchangeable into New Charter common stock on a one-for-one basis with a value of approximately $6 billion.



Liberty Transaction and Debt Financing for the TWC Transaction and Bright House Transaction



Assuming that all TWC stockholders (excluding the Liberty Parties) elect the $100 per share cash option, the cash portion of the consideration for the TWC Transaction is expected to be approximately $28 billion and the cash portion of the Bright House Transaction is approximately $2 billion. In connection with the TWC Transaction, Charter and Liberty Broadband entered into an investment agreement, pursuant to which Liberty Broadband agreed to invest $4.3 billion in New Charter at the closing of the TWC Transaction to partially finance the cash portion of the TWC Transaction consideration. In connection with the Bright House Transaction, Liberty Broadband agreed to purchase at the closing of the Bright House Transaction $700 million of New Charter Class A common stock (or, if the TWC Transaction is not consummated prior to the completion of the Bright House Transaction, Charter Class A common stock).



Charter expects to finance the remaining cash portion of the purchase price of the TWC Transaction and Bright House Transaction with additional indebtedness and cash on the companies’ balance sheets.  In 2015, we issued $15.5 billion CCO Safari II, LLC ("CCO Safari II") senior secured notes, $3.8 billion CCO Safari III, LLC ("CCO Safari III") senior secured bank loans and $2.5 billion CCOH Safari, LLC ("CCOH Safari") senior unsecured notes.  Charter has remaining commitments of approximately $2.7 billion from banks to provide incremental senior secured term loan facilities and senior unsecured notes, as well as an incremental $1.7 billion revolving facility. In addition, the bank commitments provide for a $4.3 billion bridge facility if all TWC stockholders (other than the Liberty Parties) elect the $115 per share cash option, in the event Charter is unable to issue senior unsecured notes in advance of the closing of the TWC Transaction.



Regulatory Approval Process



We have made all of the necessary filings of applications for the TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction.  The Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) comment cycle closed mid-November, and we are working closely with the FCC and the Department of Justice to make sure they have all the information they need to evaluate the merits of the transactions.  The FCC’s informal 180-day clock for approval will run to March 25, 2016 although the FCC could stop and restart the clock later if they determined to do so.  We have received approval or authorization from all necessary state authorities except California, Hawaii and New Jersey, with California currently having a schedule indicating an order being issued in June 2016.  We have filed a motion in California seeking to expedite the timing of the California proceeding although we cannot predict the outcome of our efforts to seek an earlier decision.  We have obtained approvals exceeding the threshold closing condition for franchise authorities approving










the transactions.  We have raised or received commitments for all of the acquisition financing, and we will be operationally ready to close upon obtaining regulatory approvals. We expect the closing to occur in the second quarter of 2016 subject to regulatory approval and other closing conditions.



Transaction-Related Commitments



In connection with the regulatory approval process before the FCC, Charter has made commitments regarding the following items:



•Investments within four years of closing the TWC Transaction and Bright House Transaction

◦Invest at least $2.5 billion in the build-out of networks into commercial areas

◦Build one million line extensions to homes in the franchise areas of New Charter

◦Deploy over 300,000 out-of-home WiFi access points

•Internet and interconnection

◦Comply with the open Internet rules that prohibit blocking, throttling, and paid prioritization for three years from the closing of the TWC Transaction and Bright House Transaction without regard to the outcome of ongoing litigation regarding FCC’s open Internet rules

◦Maintain a settlement-free interconnection policy until December 31, 2018

◦Refrain from instituting usage-based pricing for Internet service for three years from the closing of the TWC Transaction and Bright House Transaction

◦Offer 30 Mbps high-speed Internet service to households with children in notional free and reduced school lunch programs and to seniors 65 years of age and older who are on social security supplemental income

•Product and operations

◦Transition TWC’s and Bright House’s networks to all-digital within 30 months of closing and enable at least 60 Mbps download speeds for New Charter’s Internet service and improve the video product by adding HD and on-demand options

◦Consistent packaging and pricing strategy to be transitioned to Charter’s current model within 12 months of closing for TWC and Bright House markets that are already all-digital at closing; same offering for all other areas once those systems have been converted to all-digital

◦Continue to insource call center and field technician jobs, including returning TWC call center jobs to the U.S.





In connection with New York’s approval of the TWC Transaction, Charter has also agreed to certain commitments to New York including commitments regarding low-income broadband offerings as referenced above, maintaining existing TWC low price service offerings for new customers for a period of two years after closing and for existing customers for a period of three years, building our networks to serve 145,000 currently unserved or underserved households or businesses in New Charter’s New York footprint, enhancing broadband speeds, maintaining certain New York customer facing jobs and investing in and enhancing










customer service.  As certain of our applications for approval remain pending, Charter may enter into additional commitments in connection with the TWC Transaction and the Bright House Transaction.



Comcast Transactions



On April 25, 2014, we entered into a binding definitive agreement (the “Comcast Transactions Agreement”) with Comcast Corporation (“Comcast”), which contemplated the following transactions: (1) an asset purchase, (2) an asset exchange and (3) a contribution and spin-off transaction (collectively, the “Comcast Transactions”).  Pursuant to the terms of the Comcast Transactions Agreement, Comcast had the right to terminate the Comcast Transactions Agreement upon termination of the merger agreement among Comcast, TWC and Tango Acquisition Sub, Inc. (the “Comcast Merger Agreement”).  On April 24, 2015, Comcast and TWC terminated the Comcast Merger Agreement, and Comcast delivered a notice of termination of the Comcast Transactions Agreement to Charter (the “Termination Notice”).  As a result of the termination, proceeds from the issuance of $3.5 billion aggregate principal amount of CCOH Safari notes and $3.5 billion aggregate principal amount of CCO Safari, LLC ("CCO Safari") Term G Loans ("Term G Loans"), which were held in escrow and intended to fund the closing of the Comcast Transactions, were utilized to settle the related debt obligation in April 2015.












Corporate Entity Structure



The chart below sets forth our entity structure and that of our direct and indirect subsidiaries.  This chart does not include all of our affiliates and subsidiaries and, in some cases, we have combined separate entities for presentation purposes.  The equity ownership percentages shown below are approximations.  Indebtedness amounts shown below are principal amounts as ofDecember 31, 2015.  See Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in “Item 8. Financial Statements  and Supplementary Data," which also includes the accreted values of the indebtedness described below.





Charter Communications, Inc.Charter owns 100% of Charter Holdco.  Charter Holdco, through its subsidiaries, owns cable systems.  As sole manager under applicable operating agreements, Charter controls the affairs of Charter Holdco and its limited liability company subsidiaries.  In addition, Charter provides management services to Charter Holdco and its subsidiaries under a management services agreement.



Intermediate Holding Companies.As indicated in the organizational chart above, our intermediate holding companies indirectly own the subsidiaries that own or operate all of our cable systems.  Five of these subsidiaries including, CCOH Safari, CCO Safari II, CCO Safari III, CCO Holdings, LLC (“CCO Holdings”) and Charter Communications Operating, LLC (“Charter Operating”) had debt obligations as ofDecember 31, 2015.  For a description of the debt issued by these issuers please see “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Description of Our Outstanding Debt.”












Products and Services



Through our hybrid fiber and coaxial cable network, we offer our customers traditional cable video services, as well as advanced video services (such as video on demand, HD television, and DVR service), Internet services and voice services.  Our voice services are primarily provided using voice over Internet protocol (“VoIP”) technology, to transmit digital voice signals over our systems.  Our video, Internet, and voice services are offered to residential and commercial customers on a subscription basis, with prices and related charges based on the types of service selected, whether the services are sold as a “bundle” or on an individual basis, and the equipment necessary to receive the services.



The following table summarizes our customer statistics for video, Internet and voice as ofDecember 31, 2015and2014(in thousands, except per customer data and footnotes).



Approximate as ofDecember 31,2015 (a)2014 (a)Customer Relationships (b)Residential (c)6,2845,990Small and Medium Business (e)390332Total Customer Relationships6,6746,322Residential PSUs (c)Video4,3224,324Internet5,2274,785Voice2,5982,43912,14711,548Monthly Residential Revenue per Residential Customer (d)$111.19$108.67Small and Medium Business PSUsVideo (e)10895Internet345290Voice218177671562Monthly Small and Medium Business Revenue per Customer (f)$0.17$0.18Enterprise PSUs (g)3025



(a)We calculate the aging of customer accounts based on the monthly billing cycle for each account.  On that basis, as ofDecember 31, 2015and2014, customers include approximately38,100and35,100customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 60 days, approximately1,700and1,500customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 90 days, and approximately900and900customers, respectively, whose accounts were over 120 days.



(b)Customer relationships include the number of customers that receive one or more levels of service, encompassing video, Internet and voice services, without regard to which service(s) such customers receive.  Total customer relationships excludes enterprise customer relationships.



(c)Charter revised its methodology for counting customers who reside in residential multiple dwelling units (“MDUs”) that are billed under bulk contracts.  Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, we count and report customers based on the number of billed units within each bulk MDU, similar to recent reporting changes at our peers and reflecting the completion of all-digital which requires a direct billing relationship for all units which receive a set-top box.  Previously, our methodology for reporting residential customers generally excluded units under bulk arrangements, unless those units had a direct billing relationship.  Prior year information has been revised to reflect our revised methodology.












(d)Monthly residential revenue per residential customer is calculated as total residential video, Internet and voice quarterly revenue divided by three divided by average residential customer relationships during the respective quarter.



(e)Charter revised its methodology for counting small and medium business video customers.  Beginning in the fourth quarter of  2015, small and medium business customers are counted based on the number of customer locations.  Previously, we had counted and reported video customers on an equivalent bulk unit (“EBU”) basis.  EBUs were calculated by dividing the bulk price charged to accounts in an area by the published rate charged to non-bulk residential customers in that market for the comparable tier of service.  Prior year information has been revised to reflect our revised methodology.



(f)Monthly small and medium business revenue per customer is calculated as total small and medium business quarterly revenue divided by three divided by average small and medium business customer relationships during the respective quarter.



(g)Enterprise PSUs represents the aggregate number of Charter's fiber service offerings counting each separate service offering at each customer location as an individual PSU.



Video Services



In2015, residential video services represented approximately47%of our total revenues.  Our video service offerings include the following:



•Video.Substantially all of our video customers receive a package of basic programming which generally consists of local broadcast television, local community programming, including governmental and public access, and limited satellite-delivered or non-broadcast channels, such as weather, shopping and religious programming along with a digital set-top box that provides an interactive electronic programming guide with parental controls, access to pay-per-view channels, including video on demand (available nearly everywhere), digital quality music channels and the option to also receive a cable card.  Customers have the option to purchase additional tiers of services including premium channels which provide original programming, commercial-free movies, sports, and other special event entertainment programming.



•Video On Demand, Subscription On Demand and Pay-Per-View.In most areas, we offer video on demand service which allows customers to select from 10,000 or more titles at any time.  Video on demand includes standard definition, HD and three dimensional (“3D”) content.  Video on demand programming options may be accessed for free if the content is associated with the customer’s linear subscription, or for a fee on a transactional basis.  Video on demand services may also be offered on a subscription basis included in a digital tier premium channel subscription or for a monthly fee.  Pay-per-view channels allow customers to pay on a per-event basis to view a single showing of a recently released movie, a one-time special sporting event, music concert, or similar event on a commercial-free basis.



•High Definition Television.HD television offers our digital customers nearly all video programming at a higher resolution to improve picture and audio quality versus standard basic or digital video images.  Our all-digital transmission of channels allows us to offer more than 200 HD channels in substantially all of our markets.  We are also rolling out HD auto-tune in our markets which is a feature that ensures HD set-tops tune to the HD version of a channel even when the standard definition version is selected.



•Digital Video Recorder.DVR service enables customers to digitally record programming and to pause and rewind live programming.    Charter customers may lease multiple DVR set-top boxes to maximize recording capacity on multiple televisions in the home.  Most of our customers also have the ability to program their DVR's remotely via the Spectrum TV App or on our website.



•Spectrum TV App on Mobile Devices.The Spectrum TV App enables Charter video customers to search and discover content on a variety of customer owned devices, including the iPhone®, iPad®, and iPod Touch®, as well as the most popular Android™based tablets.  The Spectrum TV App allows customers to watch over 150 channels of cable TV and use the device as a remote to control their digital set-top box while in their home. It also allows customers the ability to browse Charter's program guide, search for programming, and schedule DVR recordings from inside and outside the home.  Charter's online offerings include many of our largest and most popular networks.  Customer's now have the ability to view OnDemand programming within the Spectrum TV App and can download programming directly to their device to view anytime, anywhere, even without an Internet connection.  We also currently offer content already available online through Charter.net, and via programmer authenticated applications and websites such as HBO Go®and WatchESPN®.












•Spectrum TV App on Immobile Devices.Charter launched the Spectrum TV App on Roku devices in 2015.  This application enables all Charter video customers with a Roku device to watch live linear programming via the Spectrum TV App.



•Spectrum Guide®.In certain markets, we have launched Spectrum Guide®, a network or “cloud” based user interface with a similar look and feel of the Spectrum TV App.  Spectrum Guide®is designed to enable our customers to enjoy a common user interface with a state-of-the-art video experience on all of our existing and future set-top boxes.  Spectrum Guide®was initially introduced in 2014 and we plan to continue to deploy and enhance this technology in 2016.



Internet Services



In2015, residential Internet services represented approximately31%of our total revenues.  Approximately96%of our estimated passings have available DOCSIS 3.0 wideband technology, allowing us to offer our residential customers multiple tiers of Internet services with download speeds of up to 100 Mbps, and up to 120 Mbps in certain markets.  Since going all-digital, our base Internet download speed offering is 60 Mbps, and 100 Mbps in certain markets.  Our Internet portal, Charter.net, provides multiple e-mail addresses.  Finally, Charter Security Suite is included with our Internet services and, upon installation by customers, provides protection from computer viruses and spyware and parental control features.



Accelerated growth in the number of IP devices and bandwidth used in homes has created a need for faster speeds and greater reliability.  Charter is focused on providing services to fill those needs.  Charter offers an in-home WiFi product permitting customers to lease a high performing wireless router to maximize their wireless Internet experience.  In 2015, in anticipation of new geographies and offered commitments in the TWC Transaction and Bright House Transaction, Charter launched an out-of-home WiFi service (“Spectrum WiFi”) in four market areas permitting Internet customers to access the Internet at designated "hot spots" within a particular market.  This service is available at no charge to our Internet customers.



Voice Services



In2015, residential voice services represented approximately6%of our total revenues.  We provide voice communications services using VoIP technology to transmit digital voice signals over our network.  Our voice services include unlimited local and long distance calling to the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, voicemail, call waiting, caller ID, call forwarding and other features and offers international calling either by the minute or through packages of minutes per month.  For Charter voice and video customers, caller ID on TV is also available in most areas.



Commercial Services



In2015, commercial services represented approximately12%of our total revenues.  Commercial services offered through Spectrum Business, include scalable broadband communications solutions for businesses and carrier organizations of all sizes such as Internet access, data networking, fiber connectivity to cellular towers and office buildings, video entertainment services and business telephone services.



•Small and Medium Business.Charter offers basic coax service primarily to small (1 - 19 employees) and medium (20 - 199 employees) businesses similar to our residential offerings.  Spectrum Business includes a full range of video programming tiers and music services and coax Internet speeds of up to 100 Mbps downstream, 200 Mbps in certain markets, and up to 7 Mbps upstream in its DOCSIS 3.0 markets.  Spectrum Business also includes a set of business cloud services including web hosting, e-mail and security, and multi-line telephone services with more than 30 business features including web-based service management.



•Enterprise Solutions.Charter offers fiber or complex services to medium and large (200+ employees) businesses including fiber Internet with symmetrical speeds of up to 10 Gbps and voice trunking services such as Primary Rate Interface (“PRI”) and Session Initiation Protocol (“SIP”) Trunks which provide higher-capacity voice services.   Charter also offers Metro Ethernet service that connects two or more locations for commercial customers with geographically dispersed locations with services up to 10 Gbps.  Metro Ethernet service can also extend the reach of the customer's local area network (“LAN”) within and between metropolitan areas.  In addition to the above, Charter offers large businesses with multiple sites more specialized solutions such as custom fiber networks and Metro and long haul Ethernet.  Charter also offers high-capacity last-mile data connectivity services to wireless and wireline carriers, Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”) and other competitive carriers on a wholesale basis.












Advertising Services



In2015, sales of advertising represented approximately3%of our total revenues.  Our advertising sales division, Spectrum Reach®, provides local, regional and national business with the opportunity to advertise in individual markets on cable television networks. We receive revenues from the sale of local advertising on digital advertising networks and satellite-delivered networks such as MTV®, CNN®and ESPN®.  In any particular market, we generally insert local advertising on over 50 channels.  In most cases, the available advertising time is sold by our sales force, however in some markets, we enter into representation agreements with contiguous cable system operators under which another operator in the area will sell advertising on our behalf for a percentage of the revenue.  In some markets, we sell advertising on behalf of other operators.



Charter has deployed Enhanced TV Binary Interchange Format (“EBIF”) technology to set-top boxes in most service areas within the Charter footprint.  EBIF is a technology foundation that will allow Charter to deliver enhanced and interactive television applications for advertising.  From time to time, certain of our vendors, including programmers and equipment vendors, have purchased advertising from us.



Pricing of Our Products and Services



Our revenues are derived principally from the monthly fees customers pay for the services we provide.  We typically charge a one-time installation fee which is sometimes waived or discounted during certain promotional periods.  The prices we charge for our products and services vary based on the level of service the customer chooses and in some cases the geographic market.  In accordance with FCC rules, the prices we charge for video cable-related equipment, such as set-top boxes and remote control devices, and for installation services, are based on actual costs plus a permitted rate of return in regulated markets.



Charter's pricing and packaging approach emphasizes the triple play products of video, Internet and voice services and combines our most popular and competitive services in core packages at what we believe is a fair price.  We believe our approach offers:



•simplicity for both our customers in understanding our offers, and our employees in service delivery;

•the ability to package more services at the time of sale and include more product in each service, thus increasing revenue per customer;

•a higher quality product offering through more HD channels, improved pricing for HD and HD/DVR equipment and faster Internet speeds;

•lower expected churn as a result of higher customer satisfaction; and

•gradual price increases at the end of promotional periods.



Our Network Technologyand Customer Premise Equipment



Our network includes three components: the national backbone, regional/metro networks and the “last-mile” network.  Both our national backbone and regional/metro network components utilize or plan to utilize a redundant Internet Protocol (“IP”) ring/mesh architecture.  The national backbone provides connectivity from the regional demarcation points to nationally centralized content, connectivity and services.  The regional/metro network components provide connectivity between the regional demarcation points and headends within a specific geographic area and enable the delivery of content and services between these network components.



Our last-mile network utilizes a hybrid fiber coaxial cable (“HFC”) architecture, which combines the use of fiber optic cable with coaxial cable.  In most systems, we deliver our signals via fiber optic cable from the headend to a group of nodes, and use coaxial cable to deliver the signal from individual nodes to the homes served by that node. For our fiber Internet, Ethernet, carrier wholesale, SIP and PRI commercial customers, fiber optic cable is extended from the individual nodes all the way to the customer's site.  Our design standard is six strands of fiber to each node, with two strands activated and four strands reserved for spares and future services.  This design standard allows these strands to be utilized for additional residential traffic capacity, and enterprise customer needs as they arise.  We believe that this hybrid network design provides high capacity and signal quality.  The design also provides two-way signal capabilities for the support of interactive services.



HFC architecture benefits include:



•bandwidth capacity to enable traditional and two-way video and broadband services;

•dedicated bandwidth for two-way services; and

•signal quality and high service reliability.












Approximately98%of our estimated passings are served by systems that have bandwidth of 550 megahertz or greater and99%are two-way activated as ofDecember 31, 2015.  This bandwidth capacity enables us to offer digital television, Internet services, voice services and other advanced video services.



In 2014, we completed our transition from analog to digital transmission of the channels we distribute which allows us to recapture bandwidth.  The all-digital platform enables us to offer a larger selection of HD channels, faster Internet speeds and better picture quality while providing greater plant security and lower transaction costs.



For set-top boxes, we are implementing a video conditional access strategy utilizing our downloadable security on a set-top box specified by us which can be manufactured by many different manufacturers.   As we roll out downloadable security, we will utilize the Worldbox, and are introducing Spectrum Guide®in parallel to virtually all box types.  Worldbox, by utilizing downloadable security along with the introduction of Spectrum Guide®, has reduced our incremental set-top box costs and allows for a consistent service for all of our customers and on all of their televisions with a service that is rich in HD, has modern search and discovery features and is capable of improved implementation of future enhancements.



Management, Customer Care and Marketing



Our operations are centralized with our corporate office responsible for coordinating and overseeing operations including establishing company-wide strategies, policies and procedures.  Sales and marketing, network operations, field operations, customer care, engineering, advertising sales, human resources, legal, government relations, information technology and finance are all directed at the corporate level.  Regional and local field operations are responsible for servicing customers and maintenance and construction of outside plant.



Charter continues to focus on improving the customer experience through enhanced product offerings, reliability of services, and quality of customer care.  We have in-house domestic call centers that handle over 85% of our calls.  The centers are managed centrally to ensure a consistent and satisfying customer experience.  We also provide customers with the opportunity to interact with us through a variety of forums in addition to traditional telephonic communications, including on-line and chat.   We utilize our web portals to enable customers to order and upgrade services, manage their accounts, and leverage tools for self-care. Our services include a new and improved Internet portal, Charter.net, making it easier for customers to manage their account, seek self-help and watch TV online.



Our marketing strategy emphasizes our bundled services through targeted direct response marketing programs to existing and potential customers and increases awareness and value of the Charter brand.  In 2014, Charter rolled out Charter Spectrum®, our new, national brand platform.  Charter Spectrum®represents our combined video, Internet and voice offering for residential customers.  This new brand reflects our comprehensive approach to industry-leading products, driven by speed, performance and innovation.  Our marketing organization creates and executes marketing programs intended to increase customers, retain existing customers and cross-sell additional products to current customers.  We monitor the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, customer perception, competition, pricing, and service preferences, among other factors, to increase our responsiveness to our customers.  Our marketing organization also manages and directs several sales channels including direct sales, on-line, outbound telemarketing and Charter stores.



Programming



General



We believe that offering a wide variety of programming influences a customer’s decision to subscribe to and retain our cable video services.  We rely on our experience in programming cable systems, which includes market research, customer demographics and local programming preferences to determine channel offerings in each of our markets.  We obtain basic and premium programming from a number of suppliers, usually pursuant to written contracts.  Our programming contracts generally continue for a fixed period of time, usually from three to eight years, and are subject to negotiated renewal.  Some programming suppliers offer financial incentives to support the launch of a channel and/or ongoing marketing support.  We also negotiate volume discount pricing structures.  We have more recently negotiated for additional content rights allowing us to provide programming on-line to our authenticated customers.



Costs



Programming is usually made available to us for a license fee, which is generally paid based on the number of customers to whom we make such programming available.  Programming costs are usually payable each month based on calculations performed by us and are generally subject to annual cost escalations and may be subject to audits by the programmers.  Programming license










fees may include “volume” discounts available for higher numbers of customers, as well as discounts for channel placement or service penetration.  Some channels are available without cost to us for a limited period of time, after which we pay for the programming.  For home shopping channels, we receive a percentage of the revenue attributable to our customers’ purchases, as well as, in some instances, incentives for channel placement. We also offer pay per view channels of movies and events that are subject to revenue split with the content provider.





Federal law allows commercial television broadcast stations to make an election between “must-carry” rights and an alternative “retransmission-consent” regime.  When a station opts for the retransmission-consent regime, we are not allowed to carry the station’s signal without the station’s permission.  Continuing demands by owners of broadcast stations for cash payments at substantial increases over amounts paid in prior years in exchange for retransmission consent will increase our programming costs or require us to cease carriage of popular programming, potentially leading to a loss of customers in affected markets.



Over the past several years, increases in our video service rates have not fully offset increasing programming costs, and with the impact of increasing competition and other marketplace factors, we do not expect them to do so in the foreseeable future.  Although we pass along a portion of amounts paid for retransmission consent to the majority of our customers, our inability to fully pass programming cost increases on to our video customers has had, and is expected in the future to have, an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating margins associated with the video product.In order to mitigate reductions of our operating margins due to rapidly increasing programming costs, we continue to review our pricing and programming packaging strategies, and we plan to continue to migrate certain program services from our more highly penetrated levels of service to our less highly penetrated tiers as contracts permit, remove underperforming services and limit the launch of non-essential, new networks.



We have programming contracts that have expired and others that will expire at or before the end of 2016.  We will seek to renegotiate the terms of these agreements.  There can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed on favorable or comparable terms.  To the extent that we are unable to reach agreement with certain programmers on terms that we believe are reasonable, we have been, and may in the future be, forced to remove such programming channels from our line-up, which may result in a loss of customers.



Franchises



As ofDecember 31, 2015, our systems operated pursuant to a total of approximately 3,300 franchises, permits, and similar authorizations issued by local and state governmental authorities.  Such governmental authorities often must approve a transfer to another party.  Most franchises are subject to termination proceedings in the event of a material breach.  In addition, most franchises require us to pay the granting authority up to 5.0% of revenues as defined in the various agreements, which is the maximum amount that may be charged under the applicable federal law.  We are entitled to and generally do pass this fee through to the customer.



Prior to the scheduled expiration of most franchises, we generally initiate renewal proceedings with the granting authorities.  This process usually takes three years but can take a longer period of time.  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”), which is the primary federal statute regulating interstate communications, provides for an orderly franchise renewal process in which granting authorities may not unreasonably withhold renewals.  In connection with the franchise renewal process, many governmental authorities require the cable operator to make certain commitments, such as building out certain of the franchise areas, customer service requirements, and supporting and carrying public access channels.  Historically, we have been able to renew our franchises without incurring significant costs, although any particular franchise may not be renewed on commercially favorable terms or otherwise.  If we fail to obtain renewals of franchises representing a significant number of our customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or our liquidity,










including our ability to comply with our debt covenants.  See “— Regulation and Legislation — Video Services — Franchise Matters.”



Markets



We operate in geographically diverse areas which are organized in regional clusters.   These markets are managed centrally on a consolidated level.  Our eleven markets and the customer relationships within each market as ofDecember 31, 2015are as follows (in thousands):



MarketsTotal Customer RelationshipsCalifornia705Carolinas/Virginia1,010Central States696Michigan696Minnesota/Nebraska375Mountain States409New England384Northwest583Tennessee/Louisiana956Texas228Wisconsin632



Competition



We face competition for both residential and commercial customers in the areas of price, service offerings, and service reliability.  In our residential business, we compete with other providers of video, high-speed Internet access, voice services, and other sources of home entertainment.  In our commercial business, we compete with other providers of video, high-speed Internet access and related value-added services, fiber solutions, business telephony, and Ethernet services.  We operate in a competitive business environment, which can adversely affect the results of our business and operations.  We cannot predict the impact on us of broadband services offered by our competitors.



In terms of competition for customers, we view ourselves as a member of the broadband communications industry, which encompasses multi-channel video for television and related broadband services, such as high-speed Internet, voice, and other interactive video services.  In the broadband communications industry, our principal competitors for video services are direct broadcast satellite (“DBS”) and telephone companies that offer video services.  Our principal competitors for high-speed Internet services are the broadband services provided by telephone companies, including both traditional DSL, fiber-to-the-node, and fiber-to-the-home offerings, as well as wireless data providers.  Our principal competitors for voice services are established telephone companies, other telephone service providers, and other carriers, including VoIP providers.  At this time, we do not consider other traditional cable operators to be significant competitors in our overall market, as overbuilds are infrequent and geographically spotty (although in any particular market, a cable operator overbuilder would likely be a significant competitor at the local level).  We could, however, face additional competition from other cable operators if they began distributing video over the Internet to customers residing outside their current territories.



Our key competitors include:



DBS



Direct broadcast satellite is a significant competitor to cable systems.  The two largest DBS providers now serve more than 33 million subscribers nationwide.  DBS service allows the subscriber to receive video services directly via satellite using a dish antenna.



Video compression technology and high powered satellites allow DBS providers to offer more than 315 digital channels.  In 2015, major DBS competitors were especially competitive with promotional pricing for more basic services.  While we continue to believe that the initial investment by a DBS customer exceeds that of a cable customer, the initial equipment cost for DBS has










decreased substantially, as the DBS providers have aggressively marketed offers to new customers of incentives for discounted or free equipment, installation, and multiple units.  DBS providers are able to offer service nationwide and are able to establish a national image and branding with standardized offerings, which together with their ability to avoid franchise fees of up to 5% of revenues and property tax, leads to greater efficiencies and lower costs in the lower tiers of service.  We believe that cable-delivered video on demand and subscription video on demand services, which include HD programming, are superior to DBS service, because cable headends can provide communication to deliver many titles which customers can access and control independently, whereas DBS technology can only make available a much smaller number of titles with DVR-like customer control.  DBS providers have also made attempts at deployment of Internet access services via satellite, but those services have been technically constrained and of limited appeal.



Telephone Companies and Utilities



Incumbent telephone companies, including AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”) and Verizon Communications, Inc. (“Verizon”), offer video and other services in competition with us, and we expect they will increasingly do so in the future.  These companies are able to offer and provide two-way video, data and digital voice services that are similar to ours in various portions of their networks.  In the case of Verizon, its high-speed data services (fiber optic service (“FiOS”)) offer speeds as high as or higher than ours.  In addition, these companies continue to offer their traditional telephone services, as well as service bundles that include wireless voice services provided by affiliated companies.  Based on internal estimates, we believe that AT&T (excluding DirecTV) and Verizon are offering video services in areas serving approximately

35%

and

4%

, respectively, of our estimated residential passings and we have experienced customer losses in these areas.  AT&T and Verizon have also launched campaigns to capture more of the MDU market. When AT&T or Verizon have introduced or expanded their offering of video products in our market areas, we have seen a decrease in our video revenue as AT&T and Verizon typically roll out aggressive marketing and discounting campaigns to launch their products.  Moreover, in July 2015, AT&T completed its acquisition of DirecTV, the nation’s largest DBS provider.  This transaction created an even larger competitor for Charter’s video services that has the ability to expand its video service offerings to include bundled wireless offerings.



In addition to incumbent telephone companies obtaining video franchises or alternative video authorizations, they have been successful through various means in reducing or streamlining the video franchising requirements applicable to them.  They have had success at the federal and state level in securing FCC rulings and statewide video franchise laws that facilitate telephone company entry into the video marketplace.  Because telephone companies have been successful in avoiding or reducing franchise and other regulatory requirements that remain applicable to cable operators like us, their competitive posture has been enhanced in some areas.  The large scale entry of incumbent telephone companies as direct competitors in the video marketplace has adversely affected the profitability and valuation of our cable systems.



Most telephone companies, including AT&T and Verizon, which already have plant, an existing customer base, and other operational functions in place (such as billing and service personnel), offer Internet access via traditional DSL service.  DSL service allows Internet access to subscribers at data transmission speeds greater than those formerly available over conventional telephone lines.  We believe DSL service is an alternative to our high-speed Internet service and is often offered at prices lower than our Internet services, although typically at speeds lower than the speeds we offer.  DSL providers may currently be in a better position to offer voice and data services to businesses since their networks tend to be more extensive in commercial areas.  We expect DSL to remain a significant competitor to our high-speed Internet services.



Many large incumbent telephone companies also provide fiber-to-the-node or fiber-to-the-home services in select areas of their footprints.  Fiber-to-the-node networks can provide faster Internet speeds than conventional DSL, but still cannot typically match our Internet speeds.  Our primary fiber-to-the-node competitor is AT&T's U-verse.  The competition from AT&T U-verse is expected to intensify over time as AT&T completed an expansion in 2014 based on plans announced in late 2012 and entered into additional expansion commitments in connection with its acquisition of DirecTV.  Fiber-to-the-home networks, however, can provide Internet speeds equal to or greater than Charter's current Internet speeds.  Verizon's FiOS is the primary fiber-to-the-home competitor, although AT&T has also begun fiber-to-the home builds as well.



Our voice service competes directly with the voice services of incumbent telephone companies and other carriers, including Internet-based VoIP providers, for both residential and commercial voice service customers.  Because we offer voice services, we are subject to considerable competition from such companies and other telecommunications providers, including wireless providers, with an increasing number of consumers choosing wireless over wired telephone services.  The telecommunications and voice services industry is highly competitive and includes competitors with greater financial and personnel resources, strong brand name recognition, and long-standing relationships with regulatory authorities and customers.  Moreover, mergers, joint ventures and alliances among our competitors have resulted in providers capable of offering video, Internet, and voice services in direct competition with us.












Additionally, we are subject to limited competition from utilities and/or municipal utilities that possess fiber optic transmission lines capable of transmitting signals with minimal signal distortion.



Traditional Overbuilds



Cable systems are operated under non-exclusive franchises historically granted by state and local authorities.  More than one cable system may legally be built in the same area.  Franchising authorities may grant a second franchise to another cable operator that may contain terms and conditions more favorable than those afforded us.  Well-financed businesses from outside the cable industry, such as public utilities that already possess fiber optic and other transmission lines in the areas they serve, have in some cases become competitors.  There are a number of cities that have constructed their own cable systems, in a manner similar to city-provided utility services.  There also has been interest in traditional cable overbuilds by private companies not affiliated with established local exchange carriers, including Google Fiber.  Constructing a competing cable system is a capital intensive process which involves a high degree of risk.  We believe that in order to be successful, a competitor’s overbuild would need to be able to serve the homes and businesses in the overbuilt area with equal or better service quality, on a more cost-effective basis than we can.  Any such overbuild operation would require access to capital or access to facilities already in place that are capable of delivering cable television programming. We cannot predict the extent to which additional overbuild situations may occur.



Broadcast Television



Cable television has long competed with broadcast television, which consists of television signals that the viewer is able to receive without charge using an “off-air” antenna.  The extent of such competition is dependent upon the quality and quantity of broadcast signals available through “off-air” reception, compared to the services provided by the local cable system.  Traditionally, cable television has provided higher picture quality and more channel offerings than broadcast television.  However, the recent licensing of digital spectrum by the FCC now provides traditional broadcasters with the ability to deliver HD television pictures and multiple digital-quality program streams, as well as advanced digital services such as subscription video and data transmission.



Internet Delivered Video



Internet access facilitates the streaming of video, including movies and television shows, into homes and businesses.  Online video services include those offered by Hulu, Netflix, Amazon and Apple.  Increasingly, content owners are using Internet-based delivery of content directly to consumers, some without charging a fee to access the content.  Further, due to consumer electronic innovations, consumers are able to watch such Internet-delivered content on televisions, personal computers, tablets, gaming boxes connected to televisions and mobile devices.  In 2015, HBO, Showtime and CBS began selling their programming direct to consumers over the Internet.  DISH Network launched Sling TV which includes ESPN among other programming, and Sony launched Playstation Vue which includes 85+ TV channels.  Charter views online video distributors as complementary and has developed a cloud-based guide that can incorporate video from on-line video services.  We believe some customers have chosen or will choose to receive video over the Internet rather than through our video on demand and subscription video services, thereby reducing our video revenues which may be offset by increases in our Internet revenues.  We cannot predict the impact that Internet delivered video will have on our revenues and adjusted EBITDA as technologies continue to evolve.



Private Cable



Additional competition is posed by satellite master antenna television systems, or SMATV systems, serving MDUs, such as condominiums, apartment complexes, and private residential communities.  Private cable systems can offer improved reception of local television stations, and many of the same satellite-delivered program services that are offered by cable systems.  Although disadvantaged from a programming cost perspective, SMATV systems currently benefit from operating advantages not available to franchised cable systems, including fewer regulatory burdens and no requirement to service low density or economically depressed communities.  The FCC previously adopted regulations that favor SMATV and private cable operators serving MDU complexes, allowing them to continue to secure exclusive contracts with MDU owners.  This regulatory disparity provides a competitive advantage to certain of our current and potential competitors.



Other Competitors



Local wireless Internet services operate in some markets using available unlicensed radio spectrum.  Various wireless phone companies are now offering third and fourth generation (3G and 4G) wireless high-speed Internet services with fifth generation (5G) and faster services on the horizon. In addition, a growing number of commercial areas, such as retail malls, restaurants and airports, offer Wi-Fi Internet service. Numerous local governments are also considering or actively pursuing publicly subsidized Wi-Fi Internet access networks.  Operators are also marketing PC cards and “personal hotspots” offering wireless broadband access to their cellular networks.  These service options offer another alternative to cable-based Internet access.  In addition, certain










wireless carriers, including T-Mobile and Verizon, are exempting certain video traffic from data charges thus encouraging video over the Internet.



Seasonality and Cyclicality



Our business is subject to seasonal and cyclical variations. Our results are impacted by the seasonal nature of customers receiving our cable services in college and vacation markets. Our revenue is subject to cyclical advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Our U.S. advertising revenue is generally higher in the second and fourth calendar quarters of each year, due in part to increases in consumer advertising in the spring and in the period leading up to and including the holiday season. U.S. advertising revenue is also cyclical, benefiting in even-numbered years from advertising related to candidates running for political office and issue-oriented advertising.



Regulation and Legislation



The following summary addresses the key regulatory and legislative developments affecting the cable industry and our three primary services for both residential and commercial customers: video service, Internet service, and voice service.  Cable system operations are extensively regulated by the federal government (primarily the FCC), certain state governments, and many local governments.  A failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to substantial penalties.  Our business can be dramatically impacted by changes to the existing regulatory framework, whether triggered by legislative, administrative, or judicial rulings.  Congress and the FCC have frequently revisited the subject of communications regulation and they are likely to do so again in the future.  We could be materially disadvantaged in the future if we are subject to new regulations or regulatory actions that do not equally impact our key competitors.  We cannot provide assurance that the already extensive regulation of our business will not be expanded in the future.



VideoService



Must Carry/Retransmission Consent.There are two alternative legal methods for carriage of local broadcast television stations on cable systems.  Federal “must carry” regulations require cable systems to carry local broadcast television stations upon the request of the local broadcaster.  Alternatively, federal law includes “retransmission consent” regulations, by which popular commercial television stations can prohibit cable carriage unless the cable operator first negotiates for “retransmission consent,” which may be conditioned on significant payments or other concessions.  Congress passed legislation in 2014 imposing certain restrictions on broadcasters’ exercise of retransmission consent authority and directing the FCC to review aspects of its existing retransmission consent rules.  That FCC review is on-going.  Popular stations invoking “retransmission consent” have been demanding substantial compensation increases in their recent negotiations with cable operators, thereby significantly increasing our operating costs.



Additional government-mandated broadcast carriage obligations could disrupt existing programming commitments, interfere with our preferred use of limited channel capacity, and limit our ability to offer services that appeal to our customers and generate revenues.



Cable Equipment.

In 1996, Congress enacted a statute requiring the FCC to adopt regulations designed to assure the development of an independent retail market for “navigation devices,” such as cable set-top boxes. As a result, the FCC required cable operators to make a separate offering of security modules (

i.e












Privacyand Information Security Regulation.  The Communications Act limits our ability to collect and disclose subscribers’ personally identifiable information for our video, voice, and Internet services, as well as provides requirements to safeguard such information.  We are subject to additional federal, state, and local laws and regulations that impose additional restrictions on the collection, use and disclosure of consumer, subscriber and employee information.  Further, the FCC, FTC, and many states regulate and restrict the marketing practices of cable operators, including telemarketing and online marketing efforts. Various federal agencies, including the FTC, are now considering new restrictions affecting the use of personal and profiling data for online advertising.



Our operations are also subject to federal and state laws governing information security.  In the event of an information security breach, such rules may require consumer and government agency notification and may result in regulatory enforcement actions with the potential of monetary forfeitures.  The FCC has recently used the existing authority under its privacy and security requirements for telecommunications services to bring enforcement actions against several companies companies (including one cable operator) for failing to protect customer data from unauthorized access by and disclosure to third parties, with resulting settlements ranging from $595,000 to $25 million.  Similarly, the FTC and state attorneys general regularly bring enforcement actions against companies related to information security breaches and privacy violations.  Congress and several state legislatures are considering the adoption of new data security and cybersecurity legislation that could result in additional network and information security requirements for our business.



On February 12, 2014, the National Institute for Standards and Technologies (“NIST”), in cooperation with other federal agencies and owners and operators of U.S. critical infrastructure, released a voluntary framework that provides a prioritized and flexible model for organizations to identify and manage cyber risks inherent to their business.  The NIST cybersecurity framework was directed by an Executive Order and a Presidential Policy Directive issued in 2013, and it is designed to supplement, not supersede, existing cybersecurity regulations and requirements.  Several government agencies have encouraged compliance with the NIST cybersecurity framework, including the FCC, which is also considering expansion of its cybersecurity guidelines or the adoption of cybersecurity requirements.  We cannot predict what proposals may be adopted or how new legislation and regulations, if any, would affect our business.



MDUs / Inside Wiring.  The FCC has adopted a series of regulations designed to spur competition to established cable operators in MDU complexes.  These regulations allow our competitors to access certain existing cable wiring inside MDUs.  The FCC also adopted regulations limiting the ability of established cable operators, like us, to enter into exclusive service contracts for MDU complexes.  In their current form, the FCC’s regulations in this area favor our competitors.



Pole Attachments.The Communications Act requires most utilities owning utility poles to provide cable systems with access to poles and conduits and simultaneously subjects the rates charged for this access to either federal or state regulation.  In 2011 and again in 2015, the FCC amended its existing pole attachment rules to promote broadband deployment.  The 2011 order allows for new penalties in certain cases involving unauthorized attachments, but generally strengthens the cable industry's ability to access investor-owned utility poles on reasonable rates, terms, and conditions.  Additionally, the 2011 order reduces the federal rate formula previously applicable to “telecommunications” attachments to closely approximate the rate formula applicable to “cable” attachments.  The 2015 order (which may still be appealed by utility pole owners) continues the reconciliation of rates, effectively closing the remaining “loophole” that potentially allowed for significantly higher rates for telecommunications than for "cable" attachments in certain scenarios.  Neither the 2011 order nor the 2015 order directly affect the rate in states that self-regulate (rather than allow the FCC to regulate pole rates), but many of those states have substantially the same rate for cable and telecommunications attachments.



Although the 2011 and 2015 orders do not impact the status quo treatment of cable-provided VoIP service as an unclassified service eligible for the favorable cable rate, the issue has not been fully resolved by the FCC, and a potential change in classification in a pending proceeding could adversely impact our pole attachment rates in states or for periods of time in which the cable rate is or was lower than the telecommunications rate.  Additionally,  although the FCC’s 2015 reclassification of broadband Internet access as a telecommunications service also set forth the FCC’s intention that pole rates not increase as result, that reclassification ruling could adversely impact our pole attachment rates in states or for periods of time in which the cable rate is or was lower than the telecommunications rate.



Cable Rate Regulation.Federal law strictly limits the potential scope of cable rate regulation.  Pursuant to federal law, all video offerings are universally exempt from rate regulation, except for a cable system’s  minimum level of video programming service, referred to as “basic service,” and associated equipment.  Rate regulation of basic service and associated equipment operates pursuant to a federal formula, with local governments, commonly referred to as local franchising authorities, primarily responsible for administering this regulation.  The majority of our local franchising authorities have never certified to regulate basic service cable rates.  In 2015, the FCC adopted an order (which is now under appeal) reversing its historic approach to rate regulation










certifications and requiring a local franchise authority interested in regulating cable rates to first make an affirmative showing that there is no “effective competition” (as defined under federal law)  in the community.  Very few local franchise authorities have filed the necessary rate regulation certification, and the FCC’s 2015 order should make it more difficult for such entities to assert rate regulation in the future.



There have been calls to impose expanded rate regulation on the cable industry.  Confronted with rapidly increasing cable programming costs, it is possible that Congress may adopt new constraints on the retail pricing or packaging of cable programming.  Any such constraints could adversely affect our operations.



Ownership Restrictions.Federal regulation of the communications field traditionally included a host of ownership restrictions, which limited the size of certain media entities and restricted their ability to enter into competing enterprises.  Through a series of legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions, most of these restrictions have been either eliminated or substantially relaxed.  Changes in this regulatory area could alter the business environment in which we operate.



Access Channels.Local franchise agreements often require cable operators to set aside certain channels for public, educational, and governmental access programming.  Federal law also requires cable systems to designate up to 15% of their channel capacity for commercial leased access by unaffiliated third parties, who may offer programming that our customers do not particularly desire.  The FCC adopted revised rules in 2007 mandating a significant reduction in the rates that operators can charge commercial leased access users and imposing additional administrative requirements that would be burdensome on the cable industry.  The effect of the FCC's revised rules was stayed by a federal court, pending a cable industry appeal and an adverse finding by the Office of Management and Budget.  Although commercial leased access activity historically has been relatively limited, increased activity in this area could further burden the channel capacity of our cable systems.



Other FCC Regulatory Matters.FCC regulations cover a variety of additional areas, including, among other things: (1) equal employment opportunity obligations; (2) customer service standards; (3) technical service standards; (4) mandatory blackouts of certain network and syndicated programming; (5) restrictions on political advertising; (6) restrictions on advertising in children's programming; (7) licensing of systems and facilities; (8) maintenance of public files; (9) emergency alert systems; and (10) disability access, including new requirements governing video-description and closed-captioning.  Each of these regulations restricts our business practices to varying degrees and may impose additional costs on our operations.



It is possible that Congress or the FCC will expand or modify its regulation of cable systems in the future, and we cannot predict at this time how that might impact our business.



Copyright.Cable systems are subject to a federal copyright compulsory license covering carriage of television and radio broadcast signals.  The possible modification or elimination of this compulsory copyright license is the subject of continuing legislative proposals and administrative review and could adversely affect our ability to obtain desired broadcast programming.



Copyright clearances for non-broadcast programming services are arranged through private negotiations.  Cable operators also must obtain music rights for locally originated programming and advertising from the major music performing rights organizations.  These licensing fees have been the source of litigation in the past, and we cannot predict with certainty whether license fee disputes may arise in the future.



Franchise Matters.



The traditional cable franchising regime has undergone significant change as a result of various federal and state actions.  The FCC has adopted rules that streamline entry for new competitors (particularly those affiliated with telephone companies) and reduce certain franchising burdens for these new entrants.  The FCC adopted more modest relief for existing cable operators.












At the same time, a substantial number of states have adopted new franchising laws.  Again, these laws were principally designed to streamline entry for new competitors, and they often provide advantages for these new entrants that are not immediately available to existing cable operators.  In many instances, these franchising regimes do not apply to established cable operators until the existing franchise expires or a competitor directly enters the franchise territory.  The exact nature of these state franchising laws, and their varying application to new and existing video providers, will impact our franchising obligations and our competitive position.



Internet Service







The FCC is considering whether online video distributors (“OVDs”) that offer programming to customers with a broadband Internet connection should be classified as multichannel video programming distributors (“MVPDs”), and thereby subject to the program access protections available to MVPDs, as well as some of the regulatory requirements applicable to MVPDs.  The outcome of this proceeding, which could impact how OVDs compete in the future with traditional cable service, cannot be determined at the current time.



On January 29, 2015, the FCC, in a nation-wide proceeding evaluating whether “advanced broadband” is being deployed in a reasonable and timely fashion, increased the minimum connection speeds required to qualify as advanced broadband service to 25 Mbps for downloads and 3 Mbps for uploads.  As a result, the FCC concluded that advanced broadband was not being sufficiently deployed and initiated a new inquiry into what steps it might take to encourage broadband deployment.  This action may lead the FCC to adopt additional measures affecting our broadband business.  At the same time, the FCC has ongoing proceedings to allocate additional spectrum for advanced wireless service, which could provide additional wireless competition to our broadband business.



The FCC recently granted petitions from municipalities in North Carolina and Tennessee seeking the preemption of state laws that restrict the ability of municipalities to construct and deploy broadband systems in competition with private offerings. Municipalities in other states may seek similar relief as there are approximately 20 such state laws now in effect.  FCC preemption










is predicated on the belief that such state laws are impeding the nation-wide deployment of broadband service. The FCC rulings have been appealed and are pending in the 6th Circuit. If the FCC orders are upheld, it could lead to increased competition from municipal-provided broadband.



Voice Service





The FCC has collected extensive data from providers of point to point transport (“special access”) services, such as Charter, and the FCC will use that data to evaluate whether the market for such services is competitive, or whether the market should be subject to further regulation, which may increase our costs or constrain our ability to compete in this market.  The FCC also recently selected a new national local number portability administrator, and the change to that new administrator may adversely impact our ability to manage number porting and related tasks.





Employees



As ofDecember 31, 2015, we had approximately 23,800 full-time equivalent employees.  AtDecember 31, 2015, approximately 60 of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements.  We have never experienced a work stoppage.














