10-K


v58077e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

þ

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR SECTION 15(d)
    OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended
    January 2, 2011

OR

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF

THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from

to

Commission file

number: 1-15295

Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)

Delaware

25-1843385

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer

Identification Number)

1049 Camino Dos Rios

Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362

(Address of principal executive
    offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:

(805) 373-4545

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01 per share

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

None

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant was
    required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
    such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of

Regulation S-T

during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of

Regulation S-K

is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this

Form 10-K

or any amendment to this

Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
    “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated
    filer” and “smaller reporting company” in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer

þ

Accelerated
    filer

o

Non-accelerated
    filer

o

Smaller
    reporting
    company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in

Rule 12b-2

of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s Common Stock
    held by non-affiliates was $1,319.0 million, based on the
    closing price of a share of Common Stock on July 2, 2010
    ($37.49), which is the last business day of the
    registrant’s most recently completed fiscal second quarter.
    Shares of Common Stock known by the registrant to be
    beneficially owned as of February 25, 2011, by the
    registrant’s directors and the registrant’s executive
    officers subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 are not included in the computation. The registrant,
    however, has made no determination that such persons are
    “affiliates” within the meaning of

Rule 12b-2

under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

At February 25, 2011, there were 36,640,514 shares of
    the registrant’s Common Stock issued and outstanding.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Selected portions of the registrant’s proxy statement for
    its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the “2011 Proxy
    Statement”) are incorporated by reference in Part III
    of this Report. Information required by paragraphs (d)(1)-(3)
    and (e)(5) of Item 407 of

Regulation S-K

shall not be deemed “soliciting material” or to be
    filed with the Commission as permitted by Item 407 of

Regulation S-K.

INDEX

Explanatory
    Notes

In this Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is sometimes referred to as
    the “Company” or “Teledyne”.

For a discussion of risk factors and uncertainties associated
    with Teledyne and any forward looking statements made by us, see
    the discussion beginning at page 18 of this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K.

i


PART I

Item 1.

Business.

Who We
    Are

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, digital imaging products and software, monitoring
    and control instrumentation for marine, environmental and
    industrial applications, harsh environment interconnect
    products, data acquisition and communications equipment for air
    transport and business aircraft, and components and subsystems
    for wireless and satellite communications. We also provide
    engineered systems and information technology services for
    defense, space, environmental and nuclear applications, and
    supply energy generation, energy storage and small propulsion
    products.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies and airlines.

Total sales from continuing operations in 2010 were
    $1,644.2 million, compared with $1,652.1 million in
    2009 and $1,722.0 million in 2008. Our aggregate segment
    operating profit and other segment income were
    $207.3 million in 2010, $198.7 million in 2009 and
    $228.2 million in 2008. This information reflects the
    classification of our former Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment as a discontinued operation given the previously
    announced and pending sale of our piston engines businesses, as
    further described below.

Approximately 56% of our total sales from continuing operations
    in 2010 were to commercial customers and the balance was to the
    U.S. Government, as a prime contractor or subcontractor.
    Approximately 44% of these U.S. Government sales were
    attributable to fixed-price type contracts and the balance to
    cost plus fee-type contracts. Sales to international customers
    accounted for approximately 29% of total sales from continuing
    operations in 2010.

Our businesses are divided into four business segments; namely,
    Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics and Engineered Systems. For 2010, we realigned and
    changed our reporting structure of some of our reportable
    business units. Our former Electronics and Communications
    segment is now reported as three separate segments,
    Instrumentation, Digital Imaging and Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics. The businesses that had comprised the Energy and
    Power Systems segment are now reported as part of the Aerospace
    and Defense Electronics and the Engineered Systems segments. Our
    battery products business, with revenues of $15.5 million in
    2010, is now part of the Aerospace and Defense Electronics
    segment and the

on-site

gas
    and power generation systems and the turbine engines businesses,
    with combined revenues of $53.9 million in 2010, are now
    part of the Engineered Systems segment. Our previously reported
    segment data have been restated to reflect this revised
    reporting structure and the classification of our piston engines
    businesses as a discontinued operation.

Our four business segments and their respective contributions to
    our total sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008 are summarized in the
    following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Instrumentation


%


%


%

Digital Imaging


%


%


%

Aerospace and Defence Electronics


%


%


%

Engineered Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%

We are a Delaware corporation that was spun off as an
    independent company from Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated (now
    known as Allegheny Technologies Incorporated) (“ATI”)
    on November 29, 1999. Our



principal executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios,
    Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362.

Our telephone number is

(805) 373-4545.

Strategy

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, digital imaging, aerospace and defense
    electronics and government engineered systems. Our core markets
    are characterized by high barriers to entry and include
    specialized products and services not likely to be commoditized.
    We intend to strengthen and expand our core businesses with
    targeted acquisitions. We aggressively pursue operational
    excellence to continually improve our margins and earnings. At
    Teledyne, operational excellence includes the rapid integration
    of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our goal is to create a
    set of businesses that are truly superior in their niches. We
    continue to evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are
    aligned with our strategy.

With the recently completed acquisition of DALSA Corporation and
    subject to the divestiture of our general aviation piston
    engines businesses, as described below, we will be transformed
    into an electronics, instrumentation, digital imaging and
    engineering focused company.

Our
    Recent Acquisitions

During fiscal 2010, we acquired:

•

Optimum Optical Systems, Inc., a designer and manufacturer of
    custom-optics, optomechanical assemblies and electro-optics for
    use in the ultraviolet, visible and infrared spectrum. This
    acquisition expands Teledyne’s capabilities and product
    offerings in tactical infrared imaging systems.

•

Intelek plc, a designer and manufacturer of electronic systems
    for satellite and microwave communication and a manufacturer of
    aerostructures and advanced composites. This acquisition
    principally expands Teledyne’s capabilities in microwave
    systems.

•

Hafmynd ehf, a designer and manufacturer of the
    Gavia

tm

autonomous underwater vehicle. This acquisition expands
    Teledyne’s underwater surveying capabilities.

On February l2, 2011, we completed Teledyne’s largest
    acquisition to date to broaden our digital imaging capabilities,
    markets and customers with:

•

DALSA Corporation (“DALSA”), a designer and
    manufacturer of digital imaging products as well as
    semiconductor wafers and components. Among other things, our
    combined digital imaging technologies should allow us to develop
    new infrared and visible light products for our respective
    markets and customers.

Teledyne spent $60.0 million on the above-listed 2010
    acquisitions and approximately CAD $337 million for its
    recent 2011 acquisition of DALSA.

Our
    Pending Divestiture

In accordance with our strategy to evaluate and divest non-core
    businesses, in December 2010, we entered into an agreement to
    sell our general aviation piston engines businesses, including
    Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc. and Teledyne Mattituck
    Services, Inc., to Technify Motor (USA) Ltd., a subsidiary of
    China-based AVIC International Holding Corporation for
    $186.0 million in cash. These piston engines businesses
    formerly constituted Teledyne’s Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment and are now classified as discontinued
    operations. While the sale is subject to closing conditions, we
    expect it to close during the 1st quarter of 2011.

Available
    Information

Our Annual Report on

Form 10-K,

our Quarterly Reports on

Form 10-Q,

any Current Reports on

Form 8-K,

and any amendments to these reports, are available on our
    website as soon as reasonably



practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or
    furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
    “SEC”). The SEC also maintains a website that contains
    these reports at www.sec.gov. In addition, our Corporate
    Governance Guidelines, our Corporate Objectives and Guidelines
    for Employee Conduct, our code of ethics for financial
    executives, directors and service providers and the charters of
    the standing committees of our Board of Directors are available
    on our website. Our website address is

www.teledyne.com.

You will be responsible for any costs normally associated with
    electronic access, such as usage and telephone charges.
    Alternatively, if you would like a paper copy of any such SEC
    report (without exhibits) or document, please write to John T.
    Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary,
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios,
    Thousand Oaks, California

91360-2362,

and a copy of such requested document will be provided to you,

free-of-charge.

Our
    Business Segments

Our businesses are divided into four segments: Instrumentation;
    Digital Imaging; Aerospace and Defense Electronics; and
    Engineered Systems. Financial information about our business
    segments can be found in Note 13 to our consolidated
    financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report
    on

Form 10-K.

Instrumentation

Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control
    instruments for marine, environmental, scientific, industrial
    and defense applications and harsh environment interconnect
    products.

Marine
    Instrumentation

Historically, through Teledyne Geophysical Instruments, we have
    manufactured geophysical streamer cables, hydrophones and
    specialty products used in offshore hydrocarbon exploration to
    locate oil and gas reserves beneath the ocean floor. We continue
    to adapt this technology for the military market, where these
    products can be used to detect submarines, surface ships and
    torpedoes.

Through various acquisitions over the last several years, we
    have greatly expanded our underwater acoustic and marine
    instrumentation capabilities.

•

Teledyne RD Instruments, Inc.’s acoustic Doppler current
    profilers perform precise measurement of currents at varying
    depths in oceans and rivers, and its Doppler Velocity Logs are
    used for navigation by civilian and military surface ships,
    unmanned underwater vehicles and U.S. Navy divers. We also
    manufacture conductivity, temperature and depth (CTD) sensors.

•

Teledyne Benthos, Inc. manufactures oceanographic products used
    by the U.S. Navy and in energy exploration, oceanographic
    research and port and harbor security services. Products include
    acoustic modems for networked underwater communication, sidescan
    and

sub-bottom

profiling sonar systems, underwater acoustic releases and
    remotely operated underwater vehicles.

•

Teledyne TSS Limited designs and manufactures inertial sensing,
    gyrocompass navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection
    systems for offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine
    markets. Teledyne TSS’ inertial sensing and navigation
    systems, which contain mechanical gyros and solid state sensors,
    provide detailed positioning parameters for marine applications.
    Teledyne TSS’ electromagnetic detection systems are fitted
    to remotely operated vehicles and used for detection and
    maintenance of subsea telecommunications cables, power cables
    and offshore pipelines.

•

Teledyne Webb Research manufactures autonomous underwater
    gliding vehicles and profiling floats. Our gliders use a silent
    buoyancy engine for propulsion that takes advantage of changes
    in buoyancy in conjunction with wings and tail steering to
    convert vertical motion to horizontal displacement, thereby
    propelling the system on a programmed route with very low power
    consumption. Glider applications range from oceanographic
    research to military persistent surveillance systems and mobile
    nodes for subsea communication networks. To expand our
    underwater surveying capabilities, in 2010, we



purchased an Icelandic company that manufactures the
    battery-powered
    Gavia

tm

autonomous underwater vehicle. The
    Gavia

tm

vehicle’s modular design allows for rapid sensor
    reconfiguration and battery replacement.

•

Teledyne Odom Hydrographic, Inc. designs and manufactures
    hydrographic survey instrumentation used in port surveys,
    dredging, pre-installation of offshore energy infrastructure and
    other applications. Teledyne Odom’s single and multibeam
    echo sounders, coupled with Teledyne RD Instruments’
    Doppler Velocity Logs, Teledyne Benthos’ side scan sonar
    systems and Teledyne TSS’ inertial sensing systems, provide
    an extensive line of precision products for marine navigation,
    detection, sonar imaging and bathymetric survey.

•

U.K.-based Teledyne Cormon manufactures subsea and surface
    pipeline corrosion and erosion monitoring, as well as flow
    integrity monitoring solutions for the oil and gas industry.
    These flow assurance sensors and equipment rely on wet-mateable
    interconnect systems from Teledyne ODI and feed-through systems
    from Teledyne D.G. O’Brien.

We also provide a broader range of

end-to-end

undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas,
    defense, oceanographic and telecom markets.

•

Teledyne ODI, Inc. manufactures subsea, wet-mateable electrical
    and fiber-optic interconnect systems used in offshore oil and
    gas production, oceanographic research and military applications.

•

Teledyne D.G. O’Brien manufactures

glass-to-metal

sealed subsea cable, pressure vessel penetrator and connector
    systems, primarily for subsea military and subsea oil and gas
    production.

•

Teledyne Impulse manufactures water-proof and splash-proof
    neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable
    assemblies that complement Teledyne D.G. O’Brien’s and
    Teledyne ODI’s interconnect systems typically used in
    underwater equipment and submerged monitoring systems.

•

Our Teledyne Oil & Gas group is working with Teledyne
    Scientific Company in an effort to improve the reliability of
    materials exposed to harsh deep sea conditions.

Environmental
    Instrumentation

We offer a wide range of products for environmental monitoring.

•

Teledyne Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. manufactures a
    broad line of instrumentation for monitoring trace levels of
    gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide,
    nitrogen oxide, methane and ozone in order to measure the
    quality of the air we breathe.

•

Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc. supplies environmental monitoring
    systems for the detection, measurement and reporting of air
    pollutants from industrial stack emissions.

•

Teledyne Isco, Inc. produces water quality and quantity
    monitoring products such as wastewater samplers and open channel
    flow meters. A variety of measurement technologies is offered to
    address challenging flow measurement applications in pump
    stations, flumes, weirs, industrial and municipal sewer systems
    and storm drains.

We provide laboratory instrumentation that complements our
    environmental monitoring businesses.

•

Teledyne Tekmar Company manufactures laboratory instrumentation
    that automates the preparation and concentration of organic
    samples for the analysis of trace levels of volatile organic
    compounds by a gas chromatograph and mass spectrometry. The
    company also provides laboratory instrumentation for the
    detection of total organic carbon and total nitrogen in water
    and wastewater samples.

•

Through Teledyne Leeman Labs, we provide inductively coupled
    plasma laboratory spectrometers, atomic absorption
    spectrometers, mercury analyzers and calibration standards. The
    advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental
    and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of
    inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other
    environmental and geological samples.



•

Teledyne Isco, Inc. manufactures liquid chromatography
    instruments and accessories for purification of organic
    compounds. Its liquid chromatography customers include
    pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and
    development. It also manufactures high precision, high pressure
    syringe pumps to measure process extraction rates of fluids
    ranging from liquefied gases to viscous tars with flow rates
    spanning

sub-micro

liter to 400 ml per minute with applied pressures up to 20,000
    psi.

A group of Teledyne businesses serve the process control and
    monitoring needs of industrial plants with instruments that
    include gas analyzers, vacuum and flow measurement devices,
    package integrity inspection systems and torque measurement
    sensors.

•

Teledyne Analytical Instruments was a pioneer in the development
    of precision oxygen analyzers. We now manufacture a wide range
    of process gas and liquid analysis products for measurement of
    oxygen, combustibles,

oil-in-water,

moisture, sulfides, pH and many other parameters. We also
    manufacture custom analyzer systems that provide turn-key
    solutions to complex process monitoring

and/or

control applications found in petrochemical and refinery
    facilities.

•

Teledyne Hastings Instruments manufactures a broad line of
    instruments for precise measurement and control of vacuum and
    gas flows. Our instruments are used in varied applications such
    as semiconductor manufacturing, refrigeration, metallurgy and
    food processing.

•

Under the
    Taptone

®

brand, Teledyne Benthos, Inc. provides quality control and
    package integrity systems to the food and beverage, personal
    care and pharmaceutical industries that inspect plastic, glass
    and metal containers, labeling and content for various types of
    defects and non-conformities.

•

Through Teledyne Test Services, we manufacture torque sensors
    and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to
    instrument critical control valves subject to regulatory
    oversight, such as the requirement to test periodically the
    torque, thrust and force of motor-operated valves used in
    nuclear power plants.

Digital
    Imaging

Our Digital Imaging segment includes our sponsored and
    centralized research laboratories for a range of new
    technologies benefiting government programs and our businesses
    as well as major development efforts for innovative digital
    imaging products for government and space applications. It also
    includes infrared detectors, cameras and optomechanical
    assemblies.

We design and produce advanced focal plane arrays, sensors, and
    subsystems covering a broad spectrum of light from below 0.3
    micron ultra-violet to 18 micron long-wave infrared.

•

Through Teledyne Imaging Sensors, we provide large format focal
    plane array sensors for both military and space science markets.
    We have been developing manufacturing processes to support
    production of third generation dual band infrared imagers
    designed to allow members of the armed forces to identify
    threats on the battlefield before the enemy can detect their
    presence. We have developed substrate-removed Mercury Cadmium
    Telluride focal plane arrays that can detect about 80% of the
    incident light in visible and infrared bands. These substrate
    removed sensors are being used on the Moon Mineralogy Mapper as
    well as the James Webb Space Telescope and are expected to be
    used in future NASA missions. We also design and manufacture
    advanced military laser protection eyewear.

•

Through Teledyne Judson Technologies, we provide a wider range
    of visible and infrared detectors, focal plane arrays and
    cameras. We have developed low noise Indium Gallium Arsenide
    focal plane arrays for short wavelength infrared night vision
    applications and integrated detector dewar cooler assemblies for
    tactical and space applications.

•

Through Teledyne Optimum Optical Systems, Inc., we design and
    manufacture custom optics, optomechnical assemblies and
    electro-optics for use in the ultraviolet, visible and infrared
    spectrum. We also design optical assemblies for simulators,
    including software and servo development.



Through Teledyne Scientific Company, we provide research and
    engineering services primarily in the areas of electronics,
    materials, optics, and information sciences. Our scientific team
    delivers research and development services and specialty
    products to military, aerospace and industrial customers. We
    also license various technologies to third parties. The
    electronics business has developed high speed electronics, MEMS
    (micro electro mechanical systems) sensors and actuators, as
    well as compound semiconductors. The materials, optics and
    information sciences businesses have been involved with ceramic
    composites for next-generation rocket nozzles, energy harvesting
    technologies, electronic device packaging, biomaterials and
    liquid crystal-based optical devices, as well as imaging and
    sensor processing. We strive to maintain close relationships and
    collaborations with the Defense Advanced Research Products
    Agency, commonly called DARPA, and researchers at universities
    and national laboratories to stay at the forefront of
    cutting-edge technologies. Teledyne Scientific Company strives
    to provide value to various businesses throughout Teledyne via
    niche product development, critical problem resolution and joint
    program capture.

With the February 12, 2011 acquisition of DALSA, we have
    expanded our imaging products and solutions capabilities and
    customer base. Through Teledyne DALSA, Inc., we now design,
    develop and manufacture image capture products, primarily
    consisting of high performance digital cameras for use in
    industrial, scientific, medical and professional applications.
    We also now design, develop and manufacture imaging processing
    products, primarily consisting of hardware and software for
    imaging processing in industrial and medical applications. Our
    high performance image sensors utilize both CCD (charge coupled
    device) and CMOS (complementary metal-oxide semiconductor)
    technology. Our imaging process software allows OEMs or systems
    integrators to develop vision applications using our frame
    grabber or vision processor hardware. Our smart camera products
    are user-friendly, cost-effective vision appliances for
    task-specific factory floor applications such as gauging,
    high-precision alignment, inspection, assembly verification and
    machine guidance. Unlike OEM products, this category of cameras
    is designed to be quickly employed by technicians on the factory
    floor.

Additionally, with the DALSA acquisition, we manufacture
    semiconductor wafers and components for the electronics
    industry. We provide processing services for MEMS, high voltage
    and CMOS wafers and complete integrated circuit
    (IC) component products. Our semiconductor products and
    services support our digital imaging business.

Aerospace
    and Defense Electronics

Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems and
    communications products, including defense electronics, data
    acquisition and communications equipment for air transport and
    business aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless
    and satellite communications, as well as general aviation
    batteries.

Historically, through Teledyne MEC, we have designed and
    manufactured helix traveling wave tubes, commonly called TWTs,
    which are used to provide broadband power amplification of
    microwave signals. Military applications include radar,
    electronic warfare and satellite communication. We also make
    TWTs for commercial applications such as electromagnetic
    compatibility test equipment and satellite communication
    terminals. More recently, we have designed and delivered high
    power solid state TWT replacement amplifiers and complete
    amplifiers that incorporate a TWT and a power supply.

Through Teledyne Microwave, we design, develop and manufacture
    RF and microwave components and subassemblies used in aerospace
    and defense applications, including electronic warfare and radar
    and networked communications.

Over the last several years, we have expanded our microwave
    components and subsystems businesses with the goal of providing
    more highly integrated microwave subsystems to our defense
    customers.

•

Teledyne Cougar, Inc. produces cascadable amplifiers,
    voltage-controlled oscillators and microwave mixers, as well as
    performance Instantaneous Frequency Measurement (IFM)-based
    systems and subsystems, including integrated frequency locked
    sources and set-on receiver jammers used for the U.S. Navy
    and Air Force training.



•

Teledyne KW Microwave adds RF filters, multiplexers and
    diplexers to our product mix.

•

U.K.-based Teledyne Defence Limited provides customized
    microwave subassemblies and integrated subsystems, including
    complex microwave receiver front-end subsystems, to the global
    defense industry.

In July 2010, we acquired Intelek plc, including its Paradise
    Datacom division and Labtech division, to further expand
    Teledyne’s capabilities in microwave systems.

•

Teledyne Paradise Datacom, LLC manufactures solid state power
    amplifiers, RF converters, low noise amplifiers (LNAs) and
    modems used in systems that provide communications links between
    ground stations and orbiting satellites. Such products are also
    used in mobile telephone, TV broadcast and commercial data
    communications networks.

•

U.K.-based Teledyne Labtech Limited manufactures microwave
    circuits and components primarily for the defense electronics,
    global telecommunications, space and satellite communications
    markets.

We have also expanded our connectors and cable assemblies
    businesses.

•

Through Teledyne Reynolds, Inc., we supply specialized high
    voltage connectors and subassemblies for defense, aerospace and
    industrial applications.

•

Through Teledyne Storm Products — Microwave, we
    provide coax microwave cable and interconnects primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.

•

Through Teledyne Storm Products — Cable Solutions, we
    provide custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies
    to a number of marine, environmental and industrial markets.

•

We also produce pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems for the Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System
    (“JHMCS”) used in the F-15, F-16 and F-18 aircrafts.
    The JHMCS system is a multi-role system designed to enhance
    pilot situational awareness and provides visual control of
    aircraft targeting systems and sensors. Teledyne Reynolds, Inc.
    is using an optical

angle-of-arrival

sensor invented at Teledyne Scientific Company in a
    “U-Track” pilot helmet tracker joint development
    effort.

We manufacture a wide array of other sophisticated electronic
    components and products and provide electronic manufacturing
    services as follows:

•

Through Teledyne Microelectronics Technologies, we develop and
    manufacture custom microelectronic modules that provide both
    high reliability and extremely dense packaging for military
    applications. We also develop custom tamper-resistant
    microcircuits designed to provide enhanced security in military
    communication. In addition, we develop and manufacture custom
    microelectronic modules that provide both high reliability and
    extremely dense packaging for implantable medical devices, such
    as pacemakers and defibrillators, and commercial communication
    products.

•

Through Teledyne Electronic Manufacturing Services, we serve the
    market for high-mix, low-volume manufacturing of sophisticated
    military electronics equipment.

•

Through Teledyne Printed Circuits Technology, we manufacture
    advanced packaging solutions for military and commercial
    aircraft using rigid and rigid-flex printed circuit boards.

•

Teledyne Electronic Safety Products continues to provide
    microprocessor-controlled aircraft ejection seat sequencers and
    related support elements to military aircraft programs,
    including the

F/A-18E/F,

F-15-SG/K and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. While we completed a
    five-year contract in 2010 to produce the Digital Recovery
    Sequencer to support the F-15, F-16, F-22,

A-10,

B-1
    and B-2 aircrafts, we have subsequently been awarded contracts
    to continue production for the next two years.

•

Teledyne Electronic Safety Products has been awarded several
    development contracts to furnish electronic safe and arm devices
    (ESAD) that will be used in several applications such as
    personnel protection, tactical and space launch systems, for
    active armor, rocket motor ignition/warhead fuze



detonation and stage separation. We expect these new products to
    enter the production phase in the next two years.

•

Through Teledyne Relays, we supply electromechanical relays,
    solid-state power relays and coaxial switching devices to
    military and aerospace markets. We also supply electromechanical
    relays, solid-state power relays and coaxial switching devices
    to industrial, medical and commercial aviation markets.
    Applications include microwave and wireless communication
    infrastructure, RF and general broadband test equipment, test
    equipment used in semiconductor manufacturing, and industrial
    and commercial machinery and control equipment. On commercial
    aircraft, our solid state and electromechanical relays are used
    in a range of applications from jet engine fuel control to
    managing control surfaces to on board applications.

•

Through Teledyne Controls, we provide aircraft information
    management solutions that are designed to increase the
    reliability, safety and efficiency of airline transportation. We
    are a leading supplier of digital flight data acquisition and
    analysis systems to the civil aviation market. These systems
    acquire data for use by the aircraft’s flight data recorder
    as well as record additional data for the airline’s
    operation, such as aircraft and engine condition monitoring. We
    provide the means to transfer this data, using Teledyne’s
    patented wireless technology, from the aircraft to the airline
    operation center. We also design and manufacture aerospace
    Electronic Flight Bag equipment and networking products,
    including airborne servers, as well aircraft data loading
    equipment, flight line maintenance terminals and data
    distribution software used by commercial airlines, the
    U.S. military and aircraft manufacturers.

•

Our
    Gill

®

line of lead acid batteries is widely recognized as the premier
    power source for general aviation. We have developed premium
    Valve Regulated Lead Tin (LT 7000 Series) aviation batteries for
    business and light jet applications. Our LT7000 Series battery
    is now certified as Original Equipment on the Embraer Phenom 100
    Jet, the Embraer Phenom 300 Jet, the Gulfstream G250 and the
    Bell 429 Helicopter. Teledyne Battery Products continues to
    explore military battery opportunities.

Engineered
    Systems

Our Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., applies the skills of its extensive
    staff of engineers and scientists to provide innovative systems
    engineering and integration, advanced technology application,
    software development, and manufacturing solutions to space,
    military, environmental, energy, chemical, biological and
    nuclear systems and missile defense requirements. This segment
    also designs and manufactures hydrogen gas generators,
    thermoelectric and fuel-cell based power sources and small
    turbine engines.

Engineered
    Products and Services

Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. is a well-recognized
    full-service missile defense contractor with more than
    50 years of experience in air and missile defense and
    related systems integration. Our diverse customer base in this
    field includes the U.S. Army Aviation and Missile Command
    (“AMCOM”), the U.S. Army’s Space and Missile
    Defense Command (“SMDC”), the Missile Defense Agency
    (“MDA”) and Defense Department major prime contractors.

•

We play significant roles in diverse missile defense areas,
    which include analyses of alternatives, site operations and
    deployment, systems engineering, modeling and simulation, test
    and evaluation, and complex real time

hardware-in-the-loop

integration with an evolution to Service Oriented Architecture
    (“SOA”) solutions. Our engineering and technological
    capabilities include requirements definition, systems design,
    development, integration and testing, with specialization in SOA
    and real-time distributed systems.

•

During 2010, we continued our long-standing support of several
    air and missile defense programs, including the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense (“GMD”), Missile Defense Systems
    Exerciser, the Extended Air Defense Simulation
    (“EADSIM”) and Single Stimulation Framework programs.
    The associated support tasks involve analysis, test and
    evaluation of ballistic missile defense system performance on a
    large number of major programs, including the Ground-based
    Midcourse Defense,



Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense, the Patriot Advanced Capability
    3, and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense
    (“THAAD”) systems.

•

Through Teledyne Solutions, Inc., we are a primary Ballistic
    Missile Defense (“BMD”) systems engineering contractor
    for the Missile Defense Agency and the U.S. Army. Teledyne
    Solutions is a prime contractor for the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance Bridge Contract in support of the Missile
    Defense Agency. We also provide engineering and services support
    to other major Department of Defense customers including the
    U.S. Army Space and Missile Defense Command, the Program
    Executive Office for Missiles and Space, the Joint
    Interoperability Test Command, the U.S. Army Aviation and
    Missile Command, and Redstone Arsenal Garrison.

In addition to our missile defense activities, we support many
    other programs of the U.S. Department of Defense.

•

We support the Navy’s Tactical Medical Logistics program,
    the Mission Package Development Lab for the Littoral Combat
    Ship, deployment of Littoral Battlespace Sensing Gliders and
    Patriot Missile software validation and verification for the
    Lower Tier Project Office. Tasking spans complex hardware
    integration and software development and testing, from design
    through systems fielding and operation.

•

Through Teledyne CollaborX, Inc., we provide full system
    acquisition lifecycle support from concept development to
    sustainment. Teledyne CollaborX provides engineering services to
    the U.S. Air Force, the Office of the Secretary of Defense,
    the Missile Defense Agency, the Defense Advanced Research
    Projects Agency and Service Laboratories, and select military
    combatant commands such as the U.S. Joint Forces Command,
    U.S. Strategic Command, and U.S. Northern Command.
    CollaborX provides the Air Force with operational and systems
    expertise in the development, test, integration, and fielding of
    new Command and Control and Intelligence, Surveillance and
    Reconnaissance capabilities for major Air Force weapons systems.

We are active in U.S. space programs and continue to be a
    significant contributor to NASA programs.

•

We have held various roles in the Space Shuttle program and
    continue to play a vital role in the science operations area of
    the International Space Station (“ISS”) program. Our
    cadre provides

24-hour-per-day

payload operations in the ISS Payload Operations and Integration
    Center located at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center. TBE
    has supported well over 86,000 hours of science operations
    for NASA and its customers, and is skilled at fabricating
    space-qualified hardware and designing and integrating
    experiment payloads. We also work on the ISS Cargo Mission
    Contract at the Johnson Space Center as a subcontractor to
    Lockheed Martin. Since January 2004, we have provided services
    related to the planning, preparation and execution of cargo
    missions to the ISS.

•

We are the prime contractor on the Marshall Space Flight Center
    Systems Development and Operations Support Contract, which
    provides engineering services and hardware development support
    for a variety of space activities. We also have a prime Blanket
    Purchase Agreement with the Marshall Space Flight Center for
    specialized engineering and program support. We perform
    engineering and software services under this contract for NASA
    space launch vehicles.

We support the U.S. Government’s efforts to clean up
    dangerous materials and waste.

•

Since 1996, we have supported the U.S. Army’s
    Non-Stockpile Chemical Materiel Program.

•

We also have begun to apply sophisticated computer aided
    engineering, design, modeling and manufacturing skills to
    support the U.S. Army’s Edgewood Chemical and
    Biological Center.

•

We also support the U.S. Government in the development of
    Engineered Systems (design, build, test and install), including
    the Whole System Live Agent Test (WSLAT) Chamber. The test
    chamber will be used at the Baker Lab in Dugway, Utah to
    exercise biological warfare agent detectors.

•

We operate a U.S. Department of Energy-certified
    radiological analysis services laboratory in Knoxville,
    Tennessee. This laboratory has received certification from the
    National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program in three
    states, including Utah where the largest commercial radiological
    waste



disposal site resides. With its Nuclear Utilities Procurement
    Issues Committee certification, the laboratory also serves
    approximately 46% of the nuclear power plants in United States.

We manufacture products that are primarily highly engineered and
    high quality machined and metal fabricated components and
    assemblies for external customers across the spectrum of our
    core business base, including for NASA, U.S. Department of
    Defense branches and the U.S. Department of Energy
    programs, as well as commercial customers.

•

Expanding on our core nuclear quality-related manufacturing, in
    February 2008, Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as an agent for
    USEC, awarded us a contract to manufacture and deliver an
    initial complement of gas centrifuge service modules to support
    fuel production for commercial nuclear power plants. In 2009,
    this contract was suspended due to the U.S. Department of
    Energy’s delayed decision regarding USEC’s application
    for a loan guarantee to complete construction of the American
    Centrifuge Project. We currently anticipate increased sales of
    gas centrifuge service modules in 2011 because USEC began
    remobilization of work under this contract in September 2010.
    USEC resubmitted a loan guarantee application to complete
    construction of the American Centrifuge Project in July 2010 and
    is awaiting a conditional approval. We expect USEC will receive
    feedback on this application in the first quarter of 2011.
    Continuation of this project beyond mid-year 2011 may
    depend on USEC receiving a favorable ruling regarding its loan
    guarantee application. Failure to secure such guarantees would
    seriously jeopardize USEC’s ability to finance, and
    therefore complete, the project.

•

We also expanded our production of nuclear quality hardware
    through the delivery of additional commercial nuclear hardware
    in 2010, including emergency diesel generator support equipment.

•

In 2010, we expanded our manufactured products capabilities with
    the addition of UK- based CML Group Limited (CML), part of the
    acquisition of Intelek plc. Through one of two manufacturing
    facilities we primarily manufacture precision machined large
    components for the commercial aviation industry. Through the
    other facility, we manufacture advanced composites. Teledyne CML
    Group Limited also participates in the Joint Strike Fighter
    program.

Energy
    Systems

Through Teledyne Energy Systems, Inc., a majority-owned
    subsidiary of Teledyne, we manufacture hydrogen/oxygen gas
    generators that utilize the principle of electrolysis to convert
    water into high purity hydrogen gas at useable pressures. This
    business also provides energy technology solutions for use in
    U.S. Government programs.

•

Our Teledyne
    Titan

tm

gas generators are used worldwide in electrical power generation
    plants, semiconductor manufacturing, optical fiber production,
    chemical processing, specialty metals, float glass and other
    industrial processes. Our sales of hydrogen generators have been
    primarily in developing countries and domestic applications
    where delivered merchant gas is not practical.

•

For over 50 years, we have supplied high reliability direct
    energy conversion devices based on thermoelectric technology. We
    provided the thermoelectric power systems for the Pioneer 10 and
    11 deep-space missions to Jupiter and Saturn and for the Viking
    1 and Viking 2 Mars Landers. In 2006, in partnership with
    Pratt Whitney/Rocketdyne and under a ten-year $57 million
    contract signed in 2003 with the U.S. Department of Energy,
    we completed all of the testing of the Multi-Mission
    Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (MMRTG), which will
    provide long-term power for the outer planetary explorations of
    the future. The first mission to use this system will be the
    Mars Science Laboratory currently scheduled to launch in the
    fall of 2011.

•

Another important space power activity is work performed with
    NASA on PEM fuel cell stacks and systems being developed to
    support both manned and unmanned robotic missions in space.
    Compared to conventional space power technology, PEM fuel cells
    enable more efficient use of resources and can be integrated
    into regenerative aerospace energy platforms.



Turbine
    Engines

Teledyne Turbine Engines designs, develops and manufactures
    small turbine engines primarily used in tactical missiles for
    military markets.

•

Our J402 engine powers the Boeing Harpoon missile system.
    Derivatives of this engine power the Standoff Land Attack
    Missile and the Standoff Land Attack Missile-Expanded Response.
    A derivative of the J402 engine powers the Lockheed Martin Joint

Air-to-Surface

Standoff Missile (“JASSM”). We are the sole source
    provider of engines for the baseline JASSM system. Production
    funding on the JASSM is forecasted to improve in 2011, resulting
    in higher sales for 2011.

•

Our J700 engine provides the turbine power for the Improved
    Tactical Air Launched Decoy (“ITALD”) built for the
    U.S. Navy. The ITALD system enhances combat aircraft
    survivability by both serving as a decoy and identifying enemy
    radar sources. Several international customers of the baseline
    TALD (unpowered) are considering an upgrade to the ITALD
    (powered) variant.

•

In 2010, we continued to work on advanced technology for small
    turbine engines and components under contract to the
    U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory sponsored Versatile
    Advanced Affordable Turbine Engine (VAATE) program. Advanced
    technology engine and component demonstrators sponsored under
    VAATE II will continue to be developed for the next generation
    cruise missile and UAVs.

Discontinued
    Operations

On December 11, 2010, we entered into an agreement to sell
    our piston engines businesses, which businesses are summarized
    below, to Technify Motor (USA) Ltd, a subsidiary of China-based
    AVIC International Holding Corporation. We have classified our
    piston engines operations as a discontinued operation. Such
    divestiture is, however, subject to closing conditions.

Principally through Teledyne Continental Motors, Inc., we
    design, develop and manufacture piston engines, ignition
    systems, and aftermarket engines and spare parts for general
    aviation airframe manufacturers and the aftermarket. We are one
    of two primary worldwide original equipment producers of piston
    aircraft engines for the general aviation marketplace.

•

We offer a complete line of piston engines that power some of
    the most advanced and successful piston engine powered aircraft
    in the world. Our current certified OEM products  include
    engines for the Cirrus SR-20 and SR-22, the Diamond DA20, Cessna
    350 Corvalis and 400 Corvalis series (formerly built by Columbia
    Aircraft Company), the Liberty XL2, the Beechcraft Bonanza and
    Baron aircraft, Mooney Ovation and Acclaim lines, and the Piper
    Seneca V twin-engine aircraft. Our O-200 Light Weight air-cooled
    engine powers Cessna Aircraft Company’s Light Sport
    Aircraft known as the SkyCatcher, which entered production and
    had its first customer delivery in 2009.

•

In late 2009, Teledyne Continental Motors took the first steps
    to continue its technological leadership with the introduction
    of its TD300 Turbo Diesel engine for piston powered aircraft.
    Although readily available in the United States, aviation
    gasoline is not easily obtainable in many parts of the world.
    The introduction of a line of heavy fuel based engines will
    potentially improve the international desire for and
    competitiveness of American produced aircraft. In addition, the
    use of heavy fuels improves the fuel economy and potentially the
    emission characteristics of piston engines when compared to
    current gasoline fueled engine technology.

•

In addition to the sales of OEM engines, we actively support the
    maintenance and replacement aircraft engine market. Our
    aftermarket support includes building and rebuilding of complete
    engines, as well as providing a full complement of spare parts
    such as cylinders, crankcases, fuel systems, crankshafts,
    camshafts and ignition products. Through our dedicated Factory
    Services Group, including Teledyne Mattituck Services, Inc.,
    with locations in Mattituck, New York and Fairhope, Alabama, we
    provide repairs and overhauls of piston engines and engine
    installations to the general aviation marketplace for both
    Teledyne Continental Motors and Textron Lycoming aircraft
    engines.



Customers

We have hundreds of customers in the electronics,
    instrumentation, digital imaging, communications and aerospace
    and defense electronics industries. No commercial customer
    accounted for more than 10% of our total sales during 2010, 2009
    or 2008.

Approximately 44%, 47%, and 44% of our total sales for 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, were derived from contracts with
    agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government.
    Our principal U.S. Government customer is the
    U.S. Department of Defense. These sales represented 34%,
    36% and 32% of our total sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, our largest program with
    the U.S. Government was the Systems Engineering and
    Technical Assistance contract with the Space and Missile Defense
    Command, and it represented 3.4%, 4.1% and 3.8% of total sales,
    respectively. Information on the Company’s sales to the
    U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
    contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, are as follows
    (in millions):




Instrumentation

$

35.6

$

36.4

$

24.5

Digital Imaging

93.3

96.6

90.0

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

302.4

287.0

271.5

Engineered Systems

296.1

357.8

368.5

Total U.S. Government sales

$

727.4

$

777.8

$

754.5

As described on pages 20 through 23, there are risks associated
    with doing business with the U.S. Government. In 2010,
    approximately 54% of our U.S. Government prime contracts
    and subcontracts were fixed-price type contracts, compared to
    50% in 2009 and 48% in 2008. Under these types of contracts, we
    bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed
    the fixed contract price. Such contracts are typically not
    subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to anticipate
    technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs
    during performance. Additionally, U.S. Government contracts
    are subject to termination by the U.S. Government at its
    convenience, without identification of any default. When
    contracts are terminated for convenience, we typically recover
    costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on
    work completed prior to termination. We had two
    U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience in
    2010, compared to seven in 2009 and five in 2008.

Our total backlog of confirmed orders was approximately
    $863.8 million at January 2, 2011, $812.5 million
    at January 3, 2010 and $822.5 million at
    December 28, 2008. We expect to fulfill 98% of such backlog
    of confirmed orders during 2011.

Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 29%
    of total sales in 2010, compared with 26% in 2009 and 24% in
    2008. In 2009, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign
    countries. Approximately 90 percent of our sales to foreign
    customers were made to customers in 28 foreign countries. The
    2010 top five countries for international sales, which included
    the United Kingdom, Norway, Germany, China and Canada,
    constituted approximately 15.9% of our total sales.

Raw
    Materials and Suppliers

Generally, our businesses have experienced minimal fluctuations
    in the supply of raw materials, but not without some price
    volatility. While some of our businesses provide services, for
    those businesses that sell hardware and product, a portion of
    the value that we provide is labor oriented, such as design,
    engineering, assembly and test activities. In manufacturing our
    products, we use our own production capabilities and also third
    party suppliers and subcontractors, including international
    sources. Some of the items we purchase for the manufacture of
    our products, including certain gyro components for some marine
    navigation applications, certain magnets and helix wire for our
    traveling wave tubes and certain infrared detectors substrates
    are purchased from limited or single sources, including
    international sources, due to technical capability, price and
    other factors. While over the years we have not experienced much
    difficulty in procuring raw materials, components,
    sub-assemblies and other supplies required in our manufacturing
    processes, continuing disruption



in the global economy and financial markets could trigger
    increased pricing and otherwise affect our suppliers as well as
    our ability to procure some supplies.

Sales and
    Marketing

Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by
    products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the
    commitment to work closely with our customers to understand
    their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and
    longer-term relationships.

Our segments use a combination of internal sales forces,
    distributors and commissioned sales representatives to market
    and sell our products and services. As part of on-going
    acquisition integration efforts, some of our Teledyne
    Instruments companies and other businesses have been working to
    consolidate or share internal sales and servicing efforts.
    Several Teledyne businesses have begun marketing and selling
    products collaboratively to similar customers to promote
    “one-stop” shopping under singular “brand”
    names, including Teledyne Oil & Gas, Teledyne Marine,
    Teledyne Nuclear and Teledyne Water Quality.

Products are also advertised in appropriate trade journals and
    by means of various websites. To promote our products and other
    capabilities, our personnel regularly participate in relevant
    trade shows and professional associations.

Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive
    bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to
    provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to
    competitive pricing.

Through Teledyne Technologies International Corp. and other
    subsidiaries, the Company has established offices in foreign
    countries to facilitate international sales for various
    businesses.

Competition

We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and
    the ability to invest in the development of new and enhanced
    products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in
    our markets and the industries in which we compete. Although we
    have certain advantages that we believe help us compete
    effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Our businesses vigorously compete on the basis of
    quality, product performance and reliability, technical
    expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and
    potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a
    larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do.

Research
    and Development

Our research and development efforts primarily involve
    engineering and design related to improving products and
    developing new products and technologies in the same or similar
    fields. We spent a total of $319.9 million in 2010,
    $374.8 million in 2009 and $391.7 million in 2008 on
    research and development and bid and proposal costs.
    Customer-funded research and development, most of which was
    attributable to work under contracts with the
    U.S. Government, represented approximately 81% of total
    research and development costs for 2010, compared with 84% and
    84% in 2009 and 2008, respectively.

In 2010, we incurred $61.3 million in Company-funded
    research and development and bid and proposal costs. We expect
    the level of Company-funded research and development and bid and
    proposal costs to be approximately $99.9 million in 2011.

Intellectual
    Property

While we own and control various intellectual property rights,
    including patents, trade secrets, confidential information,
    trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, which, in the
    aggregate, are of material importance to our business, we
    believe that our business as a whole is not materially dependent
    upon any one intellectual property or related group of such
    properties. We own several hundred active patents and are
    licensed to use certain patents, technology and other
    intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others.
    Similarly,



other companies are licensed to use certain patents, technology
    and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by
    us.

Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire
    or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with
    their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or
    termination of these patents, patent applications and license
    agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations or financial condition.

Employees

Overall, we consider our relations with our employees to be
    good. Our total current workforce consists of approximately
    9,200 employees. This number includes approximately
    1,000 employees added in connection with our DALSA
    acquisition and approximately 400 employees who are part of
    our discontinued operations.

The International Union of United Automobile, Aerospace and
    Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents
    approximately 250 active employees at our Teledyne Continental
    Motors piston engines manufacturing facility in Mobile, Alabama,
    part of discontinued operations, under a collective bargaining
    agreement that expires by its terms on March 20, 2013. This
    union also represents approximately 10 active employees at the
    Teledyne Turbine Engines facility in Toledo, Ohio under a
    collective bargaining agreement that expires on November 8,
    2014. If the sale of our general aviation piston engines
    businesses occurs, the Mobile, Alabama collective bargaining
    agreement will be included with the sale.

Executive
    Management

Teledyne’s executive management includes:

Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Executive Officers:

Robert Mehrabian

*

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Director


Dr. Mehrabian has served as Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer of Teledyne for more than five years. He is a
    director of Teledyne, Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and
    PPG Industries, Inc. On February 8, 2011, Dr. Mehrabian
    notified The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation that he plans
    to retire as a director on April 12, 2011.

John T. Kuelbs

*

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Mr. Kuelbs has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Teledyne since September 1, 2005. Prior to
    that, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary of Teledyne.

Dale A. Schnittjer

*

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Mr. Schnittjer has been Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer of the Company since September 1, 2005. From
    January 27, 2004 to September 1, 2005, he was Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer of Teledyne.

Susan L. Main*

Vice President and Controller


Ms. Main has been Vice President and Controller of the Company
    since March 2004.

Segment Management:

Aldo Pichelli*

President and Chief Operating Officer, Instrumentation, Digital
    Imaging and Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segments


Mr. Pichelli has been President and Chief Operating Officer of
    each of Teledyne’s, Instrumentation, Digital Imaging and
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments since January 2,
    2011.  From September 1, 2007 to that date, he had been
    President and Chief Operating Officer of the Electronics and
    Communications segment.  From July 22, 2003 to that date, he was
    Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of that
    segment.



Name and Title

Age

Principal Occupations Last 5 Years

Rex D. Geveden*

President, Engineered Systems Segment


Mr. Geveden has been the President of Teledyne Brown
    Engineering, Inc. and the Engineered Systems segment since
    August 1, 2007.  From January 1, 2008 through January 2, 2011,
    he had also been the President of the Energy and Power Systems
    segment, which as of January 2, 2011, was combined with the
    Engineered Systems segment (exclusive of Teledyne Battery
    Products which is now part of the Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics segment). Prior to that, Mr. Geveden served as the
    Associate Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space
    Administration (NASA) where he functioned as the agency’s
    chief operating officer. Prior to that, he served as NASA’s
    Chief Engineer and Deputy Director of NASA’s Marshall Space
    Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama.

Other Officers:

Stephen F. Blackwood

Vice President and Treasurer


Mr. Blackwood has been Vice President and Treasurer of Teledyne
    since April 23, 2008. From March 2007 to April 2008, he was
    Treasurer and Senior Director of Investor Relations of MannKind
    Corporation, a biotechnology company.  From September 2005 until
    the sale of the company in December 2006, he was Vice President
    and Treasurer of Pacific Energy Partners, L.P., a MLP holding
    company. Prior to that, he was Director of Global Treasury at
    Amgen, Inc., a biotechnology company.

Ivars R. Blukis

Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer


Mr. Blukis has been the Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer
    since January 22, 2002 and is responsible for the internal audit
    function.

Melanie S. Cibik

Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary


Miss Cibik has been Vice President, Associate General Counsel
    and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than five years.

Robyn E. McGowan

Vice President, Administration, Human Resources and Assistant
    Secretary


Ms. McGowan has been Vice President -- Administration, Human
    Resources and Assistant Secretary of the Company for more than
    five years.

Patrick Neville

Vice President and Chief Information Officer


Mr. Neville has been Vice President and Chief Information
    Officer since October 4, 2010. From January 2010 to June 2010,
    he was Director of IT Global Operations at Iberdrola S.A. and
    from January 2003 to December 2009 he was Vice President of
    Information Technology at Energy East Corporation.

Robert L. Schaefer

Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, Vice
    President and General Counsel of Instrumentation, Digital
    Imaging and Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segments


Mr. Schaefer has been an Associate General Counsel and an
    Assistant Secretary of Teledyne for more than five years.  Since
    January 2, 2011, he has been the Vice President and General
    Counsel of each of the Instrumentation, the Digital Imaging and
    the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments, having been the
    General Counsel of the Electronics and Communications segment
    for more than five years prior to its recent division.

Robert W. Steenberge

Vice President and Chief Technology Officer


Mr. Steenberge became a Vice President of the Company on
    February 21, 2006, and has been Teledyne’s Chief Technology
    Officer for more than five years.

Jason VanWees

Vice President, Corporate Development and Investor Relations


Mr. VanWees has been Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations since February 21, 2006. Prior to that, he
    was Director of Corporate Development and Investor Relations of
    Teledyne for more than five years.



*

Such officers are subject to the reporting and other
    requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
    of 1934, as amended.

Dr. Mehrabian and Teledyne have entered into a Fourth
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement dated as of
    January 21, 2009. Under the agreement, we will employ
    Dr. Mehrabian as the Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer through at least December 31, 2012,
    because 12 months notice of nonrenewal had not been given
    prior to the expiration of the term ended December 31,
    2010. The agreement automatically renews for a successive one
    year unless either party gives the other written notice of its
    election not to renew at least 12 months before the
    expiration of the current term or any successive renewal terms.
    If notice is given, Dr. Mehrabian would then retire on
    December 31st of the year following the 12th month
    after receipt of the notice. Under the agreement,
    Dr. Mehrabian’s annual base salary is $861,000. The
    agreement provides that Dr. Mehrabian is entitled to
    participate in Teledyne’s annual incentive bonus plan
    (“AIP”) and other executive compensation and benefit
    programs. The agreement provides Dr. Mehrabian with a
    non-qualified pension arrangement, under which Teledyne will pay
    him annually starting six months following his retirement and
    for a period of 10 years, as payments supplemental to any
    accrued pension under our qualified pension plan, an amount
    equal to 50% of his base compensation as in effect at retirement.

Sixteen current members of management have entered into change
    of control severance agreements. The agreements have a
    three-year, automatically renewing term, except as noted below.
    The executive is entitled to severance benefits if
    (1) there is a change in control of the Company and
    (2) within three months before or 24 months after the
    change in control, either we terminate the executive’s
    employment for reasons other than cause or the executive
    terminates the employment for good reason. “Severance
    benefits” currently consist of:

•

A cash payment equal to three times (in the case of
    Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Kuelbs and Mr. Schnittjer) or
    two times (in the case of Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden
    and 11 other executives) the sum of (i) the
    executive’s highest annual base salary within the year
    preceding the change in control and (ii) the Annual
    Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in which the change in
    control occurs or the average actual bonus payout for the three
    years immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is
    higher (in the case of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli,
    Mr. Geveden and eight other executives) or the Annual
    Incentive Plan bonus target for the year in which the change in
    control occurs or the actual bonus payout for the year
    immediately preceding the change in control, whichever is higher
    (in the case of Mr. Kuelbs, Mr. Schnittjer and three
    other executives).

•

A cash payment for the current Annual Incentive Plan bonus cycle
    based on the fraction of the year worked times the Annual
    Incentive Plan target objectives at 100% (in the case of
    Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and nine
    other executives) or 120% (in the case of Mr. Kuelbs,
    Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives) (with payment of
    the prior year bonus if not yet paid).

•

Payment in cash for unpaid performance share program awards,
    assuming applicable goals are met at 120% of performance targets.

•

Continued equivalent health and welfare (e.g., medical, dental,
    vision, life insurance and disability) benefits at our expense
    for a period of up to 36 months (24 months in some
    agreements) after termination (with the executive bearing any
    portion of the cost the executive bore prior to the change in
    control); provided, however, such benefits would be discontinued
    to the extent the executive receives similar benefits from a
    subsequent employer.

•

Removal of restrictions on restricted stock issued under our
    restricted stock award programs.

•

Full vesting under the Company’s pension plans (within
    legal parameters) such that the executive shall be entitled to
    receive the full accrued benefit under all such plans in effect
    as of the date of the change in control, without any actuarial
    reduction for early payment.

•

Up to $25,000 ($15,000 in some agreements) reimbursement for
    actual professional outplacement services.



•

Immediate vesting of all stock options, with options being
    exercisable for the full remainder of the term (in the case of
    Mr. Kuelbs, Mr. Schnittjer and three other executives,
    this immediate vesting of options takes place upon a change of
    control.)

•

In the case of Mr. Kuelbs, Mr. Schnittjer and three
    other executives, a

“gross-up-payment”

to hold the executive harmless against the impact, if any, of
    federal excise taxes imposed on the executive as a result of the
    payments constituting an “excess parachute” as defined
    in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code. In the case
    of Dr. Mehrabian, Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and
    eight other executives, the executive will receive the better
    of, on an after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess
    parachute payment with no tax gross up payment, or (b) a
    parachute payment reduced to a level below which an excise tax
    is imposed.

The agreements were amended as of December 31, 2008 to
    defer certain payments for six months following a separation of
    service to assure compliance with Section 409A of the
    Internal Revenue Code.

On or before February 25, 2011, Dr. Mehrabian,
    Mr. Pichelli, Mr. Geveden and eight other executives
    voluntarily agreed to amend and restate their agreements to
    conform the agreements to prevailing best practices. As compared
    to the prior agreements, as reflected above, the amended and
    restated change in control severance agreements contain four key
    changes or reductions as follows:

•

Eliminate a “gross up payment” to hold the executive
    harmless against the impact, if any, of federal excise taxes
    imposed on executive as a result of “excess parachute”
    payments as defined in Section 280G of the Internal Revenue
    Code. Instead, the executive will receive the better of, on an
    after-tax basis, (a) the unreduced excess parachute payment
    with no tax gross up, or (b) a parachute payment reduced to
    a level below which an excise tax is imposed.

•

Change the “single trigger” vesting of stock options
    upon a change of control to a “double trigger”.

•

Change the formula for calculating the amount of severance:
    instead of the severance payment being a multiple of base salary
    plus bonus, with bonus being the higher of target or the most
    recent bonus payout, the severance payment will be a multiple of
    base salary plus bonus, with bonus being the higher of target or
    the prior three year average bonus.

•

Reduce the amount of short year bonus: instead of a short year
    bonus being calculated at maximum (i.e., two times target),
    short year bonus will be calculated at target.

On January 31, 2011, Teledyne also provided notice to
    Messrs. Kuelbs and Schnittjer and three other executives
    who did not agree to sign the amended and restated change in
    control agreement that it would not extend the term of their
    agreements, which action results in the termination of their
    existing change in control severance agreement three years from
    the date of such notice (January 31, 2014).

Effective April 22, 2009, the Company entered into
    individual Indemnification Agreements with directors and certain
    officers and executives of Teledyne, including those then
    members of Executive Management listed above. A total of
    25 persons have such agreements. Simply, the
    Indemnification Agreements provide the directors and executives
    who are parties to the agreements with a stand-alone contractual
    right to indemnification and expense advancement to the greatest
    extent allowable under Delaware law. Some further details
    include:

•

In a third-party proceeding, an indemnitee is entitled to
    indemnification if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a
    manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to
    the best interests of the Company and, if in a criminal action
    or proceeding, if the indemnitee had no reason to believe that
    his or her conduct was unlawful. In a third party proceeding,
    the indemnification obligation covers reasonable expenses,
    judgment fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and
    reasonably incurred by the indemnity.

•

In proceedings by or in the name of the Company (e.g.,
    derivative suits), an indemnitee is entitled to indemnification
    if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he or she
    reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best
    interests of the Company. In derivative suits, the
    indemnification



obligation covers reasonable expenses, but in proceedings where
    the Company is alleging harm caused by the indemnitee, the
    indemnitee would generally not be entitled to be indemnified for
    judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (otherwise the
    Company would effectively not recover any damages), unless
    perhaps a Delaware or other court determines otherwise despite
    the finding of liability.

•

An indemnitee is presumed to be entitled to indemnification,
    with the Company bearing the burden of proof to demonstrate
    otherwise.

•

The determination of an indemnitee’s entitlement to
    indemnification is to be made, at the Company’s expense, as
    follows:

•

By (i) a majority vote of disinterested directors (or a
    committee thereof); (ii) if no disinterested directors are
    available or if they so direct, by independent legal counsel
    selected by the Board; or (iii) by a stockholder
    vote; or

•

Following a change of control or if the indemnitee requests, by
    independent legal counsel selected by the indemnitee (or, if the
    indemnitee chooses, the independent legal counsel can be
    selected by the Board).

•

The Company has an obligation to advance, on an unsecured and
    interest free basis, reasonable expenses incurred by the
    indemnitee within 30 days of the indemnitee’s request.
    The indemnitee does not need to meet any standard of conduct to
    be entitled to advancement of expenses and there is no
    determination requirement to be made by the Board in connection
    with the advancements of expenses.

•

By signing the agreement, the indemnitee undertakes to repay any
    amounts advanced if it is ultimately determined that the
    indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification.

Our indemnification obligations do not cover the following
    situations:

•

Where the indemnification payments have been made under
    Director’s & Officer’s insurance or other
    indemnification provisions;

•

Where the claim is based on disgorgement of short-swing profits
    under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act;

•

Where the claim is based on reimbursement by the indemnitee to
    the Company of a bonus or other incentive-based or equity-base
    compensation if required under the Exchange Act (e.g., in
    connection with a restatement as a result of the company’s
    noncompliance with the financial reporting requirements required
    by Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act); or

•

Where the proceeding is initiated by the indemnitee (other than
    proceedings that are consented to by the Board or that the
    indemnitee initiates against the Company to enforce the
    Agreement).

Under the Indemnification Agreements, in the event of a change
    in control or we reduce or do not renew our
    Director’s & Officer’s insurance coverage,
    we are required to purchase (or cause the acquirer or successor
    to the Company to purchase or maintain) a six-year tail policy,
    subject to a 200% premium cap. The agreements continue until the
    later of (i) 10 years after the indemnitee ceases to
    serve as a director or officer, and (ii) one year following
    the final termination of any proceeding subject to the agreement.

Item 1

A.
    Risk Factors.

Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement as to Forward-Looking
    Statements

The following text highlights various risks and uncertainties
    associated with Teledyne. These factors could materially affect
    “forward-looking statements” (within the meaning of
    the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that
    we may from time to time make, including forward-looking
    statements contained in “Item 1. Business” and
    “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this

Form 10-K

and in Teledyne’s 2010 Annual Report to Stockholders. It is
    not possible for management to predict all such factors, and new
    factors may emerge. Additionally, management cannot assess



the impact of each such factor on Teledyne or the extent to
    which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual
    results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statements. While Teledyne has classified its
    general aviation piston engines businesses as “discontinued
    operations”, until such divestiture is completed, for the
    purposes of this section, Teledyne continues to identify the
    risk factors associated with such discontinued operations. As
    the divestiture is subject to closing conditions, there remains
    a risk that such disposition will not occur or will not occur on
    the terms previously agreed.

With the
    recently completed acquisition of DALSA Corporation and upon
    completion of the pending divestiture of Teledyne’s piston
    engines businesses, the risk profile of Teledyne will differ,
    and may differ materially from prior years, which could
    materially change Teledyne’s results of
    operations.

On February 12, 2011, Teledyne completed its largest
    acquisition to date when it acquired DALSA Corporation for
    approximately CAD $337 million, taking into account
    DALSA’s stock options and net cash as of December 31,
    2010. DALSA, headquartered in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, with
    key operations in Canada as well as the Netherlands and Japan,
    designs, develops, manufactures and markets digital imaging
    products and semiconductors. Teledyne funded the acquisition by
    borrowing under its bank credit facility and with cash on hand.
    DALSA’s revenues totaled CAD $212.3 million for 2010.
    As discussed on pages 24 to 27, while there are risks
    associated with acquisitions generally, including integration
    risks, there are additional risks associated with owning and
    operating businesses internationally, including those arising
    from U.S. and foreign policy changes and exchange rate
    fluctuations. In 2011, with this acquisition, a greater
    percentage of Teledyne’s revenues and expenses will arise
    from international sources. In addition, like other Teledyne
    businesses, continued innovation and research and development
    efforts will be required to maintain Teledyne DALSA’s
    leadership position in digital imaging products and
    semiconductor production. Teledyne DALSA’s business also
    may be more capital intensive than other Teledyne businesses,
    increasing Teledyne’s capital requirements. Further,
    Teledyne DALSA currently relies on a number of single-point of
    failure pieces of manufacturing equipment or processes within
    its semiconductor business. While it may monitor such equipment
    and processes, including where appropriate maintain redundant
    equipment, spare components or service agreements with equipment
    manufacturers, a catastrophic failure of such equipment or
    processes could have a material adverse impact on its business.

Additionally, Teledyne continues to work to close, in the first
    quarter of 2011, the previously announced divestiture of its
    general aviation piston engines businesses to Technify Motor
    (USA) Ltd., a subsidiary of China-based AVIC International
    Holding Corporation, for $186.0 million in cash. These
    piston engines businesses comprise Teledyne’s discontinued
    operations (formerly Teledyne’s Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment) and had $133.7 million in revenues in
    2010. As discussed on pages 27 to 29, there are risks
    particular to these businesses that have historically been
    greater than those faced by other Teledyne businesses, such as
    those associated with product liability claims, product recalls
    and insurance coverages. The general economic downturn and the
    lack of availability of credit have tended to adversely impact
    sales of general aviation aircraft more than sales in some other
    markets in which we participate. When Teledyne no longer owns
    these piston engines businesses, such risks should be reduced.

With the recently completed acquisition of DALSA and upon
    completion of the pending divestiture of Teledyne’s piston
    engines businesses, Teledyne will be transformed into an
    electronics, instrumentation, digital imaging and engineering
    focused company. Accordingly, the risk profile of Teledyne will
    change, and may differ materially, from prior years. Among other
    things, as highlighted above, Teledyne will face more
    international and business risks and it will no longer face the
    risks associated with being a manufacturer and seller of general
    aviation engines and related components. A larger percentage of
    Teledyne’s sales will be to commercial customers as opposed
    to the U.S. Government.

We sell
    products and services to customers in industries that are
    cyclical and sensitive to changes in general economic
    activity.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in the energy
    exploration and production markets, each of which has been
    cyclical and suffered from fluctuating market demands. Strong
    demand and increased prices for oil and natural gas historically
    has contributed to substantial revenue growth at Teledyne
    Geophysical Instruments, Teledyne ODI and our other marine
    businesses. A cyclical downturn in these markets



may materially affect future operating results, particularly
    given our broader range of marine instrumentation businesses
    acquired since 2003.

Domestic and international commercial aerospace markets are
    cyclical in nature. Historic demand for new commercial aircraft
    has been related to the stability and health of domestic and
    international economies. If economic conditions do not improve
    and the credit markets further tighten, it may continue to be
    difficult for the commercial airlines and aircraft leasing
    companies to obtain credit to buy new airplanes. Delays or
    changes in aircraft and component orders could impact the future
    demand for our Teledyne Controls and other products and have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.

Many of the OEM customers of our discontinued operations are
    privately-held and may not be well-capitalized. Over the last
    several years a few aircraft manufacturing customers of Teledyne
    Continental Motors have filed for bankruptcy protection. While
    Teledyne Continental Motors tries to monitor its customers’
    payment streams and financial wherewithal and avail itself of
    available pre-bankruptcy protections, among other things, such
    actions may only mitigate losses, not prevent them. Any future
    credit problems with our customers could result in write-offs or
    reimbursements of purported preferential payments, and could
    have a material adverse effect on the business, results of
    operations and financial condition of our discontinued
    operations.

Some of our businesses, including newly acquired Teledyne DALSA,
    are also suppliers to the semiconductor industry, which is
    highly cyclical by nature. The semiconductor industry has
    experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged, downturns. Any
    downturn in the semiconductor industry or any other industry
    that uses a significant number of semiconductor devices, such as
    consumer electronic products, telecommunication devices, or
    computing devices could have a material adverse effect on our
    business and operating results.

In addition, we sell products and services to customers in
    industries that are sensitive to the level of general economic
    activity and consumer spending habits and in more mature
    industries that are sensitive to capacity. Adverse economic
    conditions affecting these industries may reduce demand for our
    products and services, which may reduce our profits, or our
    production levels, or both. Some of our businesses serve
    industries such as power generation and petrochemical refining,
    which may be negatively impacted by reductions in global capital
    expenditures and manufacturing capacity.

Changes in demand in the industries in which we do business also
    can result in the inventory we carry becoming excess or
    obsolete. Further, Teledyne DALSA relies on a small number of
    customers in its semiconductor business. Given this lack of
    diversity, small fluctuations and inventory corrections at the
    end customer level could negatively impact this acquired
    company’s operating results, as well as that of the Digital
    Imaging segment.

Our
    dependence on revenue from government contracts subjects us to
    many risks:

Our
    revenue from government contracts depends on the continued
    availability of funding from the U.S. Government, and,
    accordingly, we have the risk that funding for our existing
    contracts may be canceled or diverted to other uses or
    delayed.

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including

sub-contracts

with government prime contractors. Sales under contracts with
    the U.S. Government as a whole, including sales under
    contracts with the Department of Defense, as prime contractor or
    subcontractor, represented approximately 44% of our total
    revenue in 2010, as compared with 47% in 2009 and 44% in 2008.
    Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
    risks that could have a material effect on our business, results
    of operations, and financial condition.

Government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing
    availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically
    appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis
    even though contract performance may take more than one year. As
    a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is
    typically only partially funded, and additional funding is
    normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only
    as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal
    years. The timing of program cycles can also affect our results
    of operations for a particular quarter or year. It is not
    uncommon for the Department



of Defense to delay the timing of awards for major programs for
    six to twelve months, or more, beyond the original projected
    timeframe.

The failure by Congress to approve budgets on a timely basis
    could delay procurement of our services and products and cause
    us to lose future revenues. In years when Congress is not able
    to complete its budget process before the end of the U.S.
    Government’s fiscal year on September 30, Congress
    typically funds government operations pursuant to a continuing
    resolution. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing
    resolution, it may delay funding we expect to receive from
    customers on work we are already performing and will likely
    result in new initiatives being delayed or in some cases
    cancelled. The U.S. Government’s failure to complete its
    budget process, or to fund government operations pursuant to a
    continuing resolution, may result in a U.S. Government shutdown
    which could result in a material loss of revenues for us.

U.S. defense spending is expected to continue to moderate
    and then decline in some areas over the next few years. An
    emphasis on Federal deficit and debt reduction could lead to a
    decrease in overall defense spending. The continued war on
    terrorism and the Iraq and Afghanistan wars also could result in
    a diversion of funds from programs in which Teledyne
    participates. In addition, continued defense spending does not
    necessarily correlate to continued business for us, because not
    all of the programs in which we participate or have current
    capabilities may be provided with continued funding.

Changes in policy and budget priorities by the President, his
    Administration and our Congress for various Defense and NASA
    programs could continue to impact our Engineered Systems and
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics segments. For example, changes
    in national space policy that affect NASA’s budget are
    likely. There have already been significant reductions in
    missile defense budgets and we anticipate continuing scrutiny of
    those budgets to impact our revenues. Our Engineered Systems
    segment may be further impacted by delays in production funding
    on the Joint Air to Surface Standoff Missile (“JASSM”)
    program. In addition, reductions and delays in research and
    development funding by the U.S. Government may continue to
    impact our revenues. As the Defense Advanced Research Projects
    Agency, referred to as DARPA, reviews its programs aimed to
    enhance technologically U.S. military capabilities and
    national security, changes to the DARPA research and technology
    development programs in which we participate could occur.
    Finally, various Department of Defense initiatives, such as the
    emphasis on in-sourcing positions to the Government and the
    planned closure of the Joint Forces Command could negatively
    impact our Engineered Systems segment.

Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides a variety
    of products for several military platforms, including the F-35
    Joint Strike Fighter. Teledyne CML Group Limited, part of our
    Engineered Systems segment, also provided products for this
    aircraft. Development and production of this aircraft is very
    expensive and there is no guarantee that the Department of
    Defense, as it balances budget priorities, will continue to
    provide funding to manufacture and support the F-35 aircraft or
    other platforms for which we provide products. In 2010, delays
    in the F-35 program were announced. In 2009, Congress had made
    the decision to curtail F-22A aircraft funding. Reallocation of
    funding priorities within the Department of Defense could also
    affect repair and spares sales for older military platforms,
    including, by way of example, sales of our traveling wave tubes
    for F-15, F-16, F-18, EA-6B, B-52, B-1, C-130 and U-2 aircraft.

Our
    participation in government programs may decrease or be subject
    to renegotiation as those programs evolve over time.

The relocation to Huntsville, Alabama of the Missile Defense
    Agency or MDA has resulted in the transfer to the MDA of certain
    missions and functions from the U.S. Army Space and Missile
    Defense Command or SMDC. New leadership at the MDA is conducting
    solicitations that could impact support by our Engineered
    Systems segment to the Agency. For example, all MDA government
    engineering support services work is now to be recompeted at the
    conclusion of each existing contract, and several major prime
    contracts under which we perform such services are nearing the
    end of their respective periods of performance.

The U.S. Government has also placed emphasis on
    Organizational Conflict of Interest or OCI. As a result,
    requests for proposals in the areas of engineering support,
    testing and operational analysis are restricting bidders from
    related development and integration work. This may require some
    businesses or subsidiaries of



Teledyne to abstain or withdraw from contract competition if
    other Teledyne businesses may be affected by an OCI. In
    particular, the MDA is reconsidering its policy on OCI. It is
    reviewing all OCI mitigation plans and may require more rigid
    mitigatory conditions going forward, potentially limiting our
    participation in certain major MDA programs, such as
    Ground-Based Midcourse Defense.

The U.S. Government has been placing emphasis on small
    business quotas and increasing small business contract set
    asides and minimum work percentages. In some cases, prime
    contractors are required to reduce large subcontractor
    participation in order to fill small business quotas and be
    responsive to proposals and bids. Additionally, the General
    Accounting Office or GAO has issued rulings which favor the
    interests of small businesses under multiple award Indefinite
    Delivery/Indefinite Quantity or IDIQ contracts. Several of the
    contracts under which we perform engineering support services
    for MDA are of this type and, as a result, our engineering
    services business could be significantly impacted.

Over time, and for a variety of reasons, programs can evolve and
    affect the extent of our participation. For example, Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc.’s Ground-based Midcourse Defense
    (“GMD”) program has been negatively impacted by both
    the nominal end date of development activity and the change in
    focus of the current Administration relative to missile defense.
    Teledyne Brown Engineering’s revenues for the GMD program
    declined from approximately $43 million in 2008 to
    $31 million in 2009 to $14 million in 2010. Although
    MDA plans to award a deployment and sustainment contract for
    GMD, we expect that Teledyne Brown Engineering’s revenues
    under this activity will continue to decline in 2011. This
    reduction is due to a number of factors including the completion
    of the current deployment cycle, the change in MDA focus toward
    a phased regional deployment defense architecture, continued
    Federal government personnel in-sourcing and increased small
    business participation requirements in Department of Defense
    contracts.

We have been a significant participant in NASA programs,
    primarily through our Engineered Systems segment and through
    Teledyne Scientific Company. Our current NASA activities focus
    on the James Webb Space Telescope, payload operation and
    integration on the International Space Station (ISS), and
    concept development, engineering services and integration for
    new NASA launch vehicles. During 2010, the President introduced
    significant changes to the National Space Policy. The President
    and Congress continue to discuss NASA’s future direction.
    Although the outcome of these discussions remains uncertain,
    current plans include the cancellation of NASA’s
    Constellation Program which includes Ares launch vehicles,
    utilization of commercial launch vehicles for crew and cargo ISS
    expeditions, and development of a NASA heavy lift launch vehicle
    for space exploration. As a result of these changes, we will
    attempt to transition our business to meet the needs of the new
    policy and programs. However, failure to transition our business
    successfully could result in reduced sales. In addition, delayed
    decisions and funding for NASA’s new space policy could
    negatively impact our business.

We may
    not be successful in bidding for future contracts, which would
    reduce our revenues or slow our growth.

We obtain many U.S. Government prime contracts and
    subcontracts through the process of competitive bidding. We may
    not be successful in having our bids awarded. In addition, we
    may spend substantial amounts of time, money and effort,
    including design, development and marketing activities, required
    to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be
    awarded to us. In 2010, we incurred $14.3 million on bid
    and proposals costs, compared with $13.7 million in 2009
    and $13.7 million in 2008.

Our
    contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to termination
    rights that could adversely affect us.

Most of our U.S. Government contracts are subject to
    termination by the U.S. Government either at its
    convenience or upon the default of the contractor. Even when not
    expressly included in a U.S. Government contract, courts
    have validated termination for convenience as a matter of public
    procurement policy. Termination for convenience provisions
    provide only for the recovery of costs incurred or committed,
    settlement expenses, and profit on work completed prior to
    termination. Termination for default clauses impose liability on
    the contractor for excess costs incurred by the
    U.S. Government in reprocuring undelivered items



from another source. During 2010, Teledyne had two
    U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience, one
    of which was in our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment
    and one of which was in our Engineered Systems segment. We did
    not have any of our U.S. Government contracts terminated
    for default during 2010.

We may
    lose money or generate less than expected profits on our
    fixed-price government contracts and we may lose money if we
    fail to meet certain pre-specified targets in government
    contracts.

There is no guarantee that U.S. Government contracts will
    be profitable. A number of our U.S. Government prime
    contracts and subcontracts are fixed-price type contracts (54%
    of our total U.S. Government contracts in 2010, 50% in 2009
    and 48% in 2008). Under these types of contracts, we bear the
    inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed
    contract price. This is particularly true when the contract is
    awarded and the price finalized in advance of final completion
    of design. Under such contracts, we must absorb cost overruns,
    notwithstanding the difficulty of estimating all of the costs we
    will incur in performing these contracts. Our failure to
    anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or
    control costs during performance of a fixed-price contract may
    reduce profitability or cause a loss. We have also experienced
    some volatility in the pricing of certain raw materials and
    components underlying our fixed-price contracts. Such contracts
    are typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail
    to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or
    control costs during performance. We cannot assure that our
    contract loss provisions in our financial statements will be
    adequate to cover all actual future losses. We may lose money on
    some contracts if we fail to meet these estimates.

Certain fees under some of our U.S. Government contracts
    are linked to meeting specified technical, cost

and/or

schedule targets, including development or testing deadlines.
    Fees may also be influenced or be dependent on the collective
    efforts and success of other defense contractors over which we
    had no or limited control.

Our
    business is subject to government contracting regulations and
    our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could harm
    our operating results and prospects.

We, like other government contractors, are subject to various
    audits, reviews and investigations (including private party
    “whistleblower” lawsuits) relating to our compliance
    with federal and state laws. Generally, claims arising out of
    these U.S. Government inquiries and voluntary disclosures
    can be resolved without resorting to litigation. However, should
    the business or division involved be charged with wrongdoing, or
    should the U.S. Government determine that the business or
    division is not a “presently responsible contractor,”
    that business or division, and conceivably our Company as a
    whole, could be temporarily suspended or, in the event of a
    conviction, could be debarred for up to three years from
    receiving new government contracts or government-approved
    subcontracts. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts
    defending against such charges and in damages, fines and
    penalties if such charges were proven or were to result in
    negotiated settlements.

United
    States and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq and
    Afghanistan wars, the mass protests and turmoil in Middle
    Eastern countries, Mexican border town violence, nuclear
    proliferation concerns and potential epidemics increase
    uncertainties with respect to many of our businesses and may
    adversely affect our business and results of
    operations.

United States’ and global responses to terrorism, the Iraq
    and Afghanistan wars, the mass protests and turmoil in Middle
    Eastern countries, Mexican border town violence and nuclear
    proliferation concerns increase uncertainties with respect to
    U.S. and other business and financial markets. Several
    factors associated, directly or indirectly, with terrorism, the
    Iraq, Afghanistan, Egypt and Middle East situations and
    perceived nuclear threats and responses may adversely affect us.
    The reaction to Iran’s continuing desire to explore nuclear
    capabilities could adversely affect oil prices and some of our
    businesses. The reaction to Egypt permitting Iran to sent
    warships through the Suez Canal could adversely affect some of
    our businesses.

While some of our businesses that provide products or services
    to the U.S. Government experienced greater demand as a
    result of increased U.S. Government defense spending,
    various responses could realign



government programs and affect the composition, funding or
    timing of our government programs. The President, his
    Administration and Congress could also further alter government
    programs. Government spending could shift to the Department of
    Defense or Homeland Security programs in which we may not
    participate or may not have current capabilities. These
    decisions could curtail less pressing non-defense programs in
    which we do participate, including Department of Energy or NASA
    programs. Government spending could also shift towards
    non-defense programs in which we do not currently participate.

Air travel declines have occurred after terrorist attacks and
    heightened security alerts, as well as after the H1N1 virus,
    SARS and bird flu scares. Additional declines in air travel
    resulting from such factors and other factors could adversely
    affect the financial condition of many of our commercial airline
    and aircraft manufacturer customers and, in turn, could
    adversely affect our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment.
    In addition, a prolonged virus epidemic or pandemic, or the
    threat thereof, could result in worker absences, lower
    productivity, voluntary closure of our offices and manufacturing
    facilities, disruptions in our supply chain, travel restrictions
    on our employees, and other disruptions to our businesses.
    Moreover, health epidemics may force local health and government
    authorities to mandate the temporary closure of our offices and
    manufacturing facilities, as was done with our Mexico operations
    in 2009.

Deterioration of financial performance of airlines could result
    in a reduction of discretionary spending for upgrades of
    avionics and in-flight communications equipment, which would
    adversely affect our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment.

The U.S. Government continues to evaluate potential
    security issues associated with general aviation. Increased
    government regulations, including but not limited to increased
    airspace regulations (including user fees), could lead to an
    overall decline in air travel and have an adverse affect on our
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment as well as our
    discontinued operations. As happened after the
    September 11th terrorist attacks, reinstatement of
    flight restrictions would negatively impact the market for
    general aviation aircraft piston engines and components of our
    discontinued operations and associated products of Teledyne
    Battery Products. Potential reductions in the need for general
    aviation aircraft maintenance as a result of declines in air
    travel could also adversely affect our discontinued operations.

Higher oil prices could adversely affect commercial
    airline-related customers of our Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics segment. Higher oil prices could also reduce general
    aviation air travel, negatively affecting our discontinued
    operations. Conversely, lower oil prices could decrease oil
    exploration and petrochemical refining activities and hinder our
    marine and other instrumentation businesses, including Teledyne
    Geophysical Instruments, Teledyne TSS Limited, Teledyne Benthos,
    Inc., Teledyne D.G. O’Brien and Teledyne ODI, Inc., as well
    as some of our other businesses such as Teledyne Storm Products,
    Inc. In addition, instability in the Middle East or other
    oil-producing regions could adversely affect expansion plans of
    the oil and gas industry customers of our instrumentation and
    cable solutions businesses.

Violence and crime in Mexico, particularly in border towns where
    we conduct some manufacturing activities, could adversely affect
    our relays and cable solutions businesses.

Acquisitions
    involve inherent risks that may adversely affect our operating
    results and financial condition.

Our growth strategy includes acquisitions. Acquisitions involve
    various inherent risks, such as:

•

our ability to assess accurately the value, strengths,
    weaknesses, internal controls, contingent and other liabilities
    and potential profitability of acquisition candidates;

•

the potential loss of key personnel of an acquired business;

•

our ability to integrate acquired businesses and to achieve
    identified financial, operating and other synergies anticipated
    to result from an acquisition;

•

our ability to assess, integrate and implement internal controls
    of acquired businesses in accordance with Section 404 of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;



•

the distraction of management resulting from the need to
    integrate acquired businesses;

•

increased competition for acquisition targets, which may
    increase acquisition costs; and

•

unanticipated changes in business and economic conditions
    affecting an acquired business.

While we conduct financial and other due diligence in connection
    with our acquisitions and generally seek some form of
    protection, including indemnification from a seller and
    sometimes an escrow of a portion of the purchase price to cover
    potential issues, such acquired companies may have weaknesses or
    liabilities that are not accurately assessed or brought to our
    attention at the time of the acquisition. Further, indemnities
    or escrows may not fully cover such matters, particularly
    matters identified after a closing.

We have also acquired several private companies, including the
    2010 acquisitions of Optimum Optical Systems, Inc. and Hafmynd
    ehf (now known as Teledyne Gavia ehf). Private companies
    generally do not have as formal or comprehensive internal
    controls and compliance systems in place as public companies.
    While we have required various sellers to take certain
    compliance actions prior to the closing of an acquisition,
    including making voluntary disclosures under various export
    control laws and regulations, and have sought protections in the
    purchase agreement for such matters, there is no assurance that
    we have identified all issues or will be fully protected from
    historic liabilities. After acquiring a company, notwithstanding
    pre-closing due diligence, we have discovered issues that
    required further action, including making voluntary disclosures
    under various defense and export control laws and regulations.

While the products and customer base of the companies we have
    acquired over the years are complementary to some of
    Teledyne’s existing businesses, there is no assurance that
    we will achieve all identified financial, operating and
    marketing synergies. We may also experience problems that arise
    in entering new markets through acquisitions in which we may
    have little or no experience.

In 2011, we expanded our international presence with the
    acquisition of DALSA, which has operations in Canada, the
    Netherlands, Japan, China and Germany, as well as the United
    States. Additionally, in 2010, we expanded our United Kingdom
    presence with the acquisition of Intelek plc. Our United Kingdom
    operations accounted for approximately 5% of total revenues in
    both 2010 and 2009 compared with 4% in 2008. There are
    additional risks associated with owning and operating businesses
    internationally, including those arising from U.S. and
    foreign government policy changes or actions and exchange rate
    fluctuations. Further, it has been postulated that the United
    Kingdom economy may be recovering more slowly from the 2008
    global economic crisis than the economies in the United States
    and mainland Europe.

In connection with acquisitions, we may consolidate one or more
    acquired facilities with other Teledyne facilities to obtain
    synergies and cost-savings. For example, in 2009, we
    consolidated the

2008-acquired

Moorpark, CA-based operations and assets of Demo Systems LLC,
    principally with Teledyne Controls, El Segundo, CA. We also
    combined and relocated, with minimal disruption, the operations
    of the

2008-acquired

Teledyne Impulse and long-time owned Teledyne Interconnect
    Devices to a new leased facility in San Diego, CA. In
    addition, in 2009, we relocated the principal operations of both

2008-acquired

Teledyne TSS Limited and Teledyne Cormon Limited to more modern
    and larger facilities close to their prior locations.
    Nonetheless, despite planning, relocation and consolidation of
    manufacturing operations has inherent risks, as it tends to
    involve, among other things, change of personnel, application of
    a new business system software and learning or adaptation of
    manufacturing processes and techniques. As a result, production
    delays at a new operating location may occur.

Under SEC rules, Teledyne must issue a report on
    management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal
    controls over financial reporting. The SEC permits a limited
    time-based exclusion for acquisitions to give a company an
    opportunity to evaluate more fully the internal controls of
    acquired companies and correct deficiencies and institute new or
    additional internal controls. Our 2010 management’s report
    specifically excludes from its scope and coverage our 2010
    acquisitions of Intelek plc, Optimum Optical Systems, Inc. and
    Hafmynd ehf, allowing us additional time to evaluate existing
    internal controls and implement additional controls as
    appropriate. With regard to future acquisitions, we can provide
    no assurance that we will be able to provide a report that
    contains no significant deficiencies or material weaknesses with
    respect to these acquired companies or other acquisitions.



In connection with our acquisitions, including ones which we do
    not complete, we may incur significant transaction costs. We are
    required to expense as incurred such transaction costs, which
    may have an adverse impact on our quarterly financial results.

We are
    subject to the risks associated with international sales, which
    could harm our business or results of operations.

During 2010, sales to international customers accounted for
    approximately 29% of our total revenues, as compared to 26% in
    2009 and 24% in 2008. We anticipate that future sales to
    international customers will continue to account for a
    significant and increasing percentage of our revenues,
    particularly since business and growth plans for many Teledyne
    businesses focus on sales outside of the United States,
    including to emerging markets such as China and Brazil. The
    DALSA acquisition will also contribute to greater international
    sales. Risks associated with these sales include:

•

political and economic instability;

•

international terrorism;

•

export controls, including U.S. export controls related to
    China and increased scrutiny of exports of marine instruments,
    digital imaging and other products;

•

changes in legal and regulatory requirements;

•

U.S. and foreign government policy changes affecting the
    markets for our products;

•

changes in tax laws and tariffs;

•

changes in

U.S.-China

relations;

•

transportation, including piracy in international
    waters; and

•

exchange rate fluctuations.

Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.
    Exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect the cost of our
    products to international customers and therefore reduce our
    competitive position. If the U.S. dollar strengthens
    against the British Pound Sterling or Euro, our European
    customers may no longer find our product prices more attractive
    than European competitors. With the acquisition of
    Canadian-based DALSA, increases in the value of the Canadian
    dollar relative to the U.S. dollar, or other foreign
    currencies, could adversely affect the business, operations and
    the financial condition of our Digital Imaging segment.

Sales of our products and services internationally are subject
    to U.S. and local government regulations and procurement
    policies and practices including regulations relating to
    import-export control. Violations of export control rules could
    result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or
    more businesses or the entire corporation. Depending on the
    scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on
    our ability to perform certain international contracts. Concerns
    over theft of technology for military uses, nuclear
    proliferation concerns, terrorism, diversion and other factors
    have resulted in increased export scrutiny of international
    sales, including some of our marine instruments, digital imaging
    and other products to international customers. There has also
    been increasing export oversight and regulation of sales to
    China. Travel restrictions to Middle Eastern, African and other
    countries may negatively affect continuing international sales
    or service revenues from such regions. There are also
    U.S. and international regulations relating to investments,
    exchange controls and repatriation of earnings, as well as
    varying currency, political and economic risks.

Among other things, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which generally prohibits
    U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing
    foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping
    business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. In
    particular, while we have procedures in place and conduct FCPA
    training, we may be held liable for actions taken by our
    strategic or local partners even though our partners are not
    subject to the FCPA. Further, the United Kingdom recently
    adopted, but delayed



implementation of, the U.K. Bribery Act, which raises the bar
    for anti-bribery law enforcement and compliance relative to the
    FCPA. Any determination that we had violated the FCPA, the U.K.
    Bribery Act, when implemented, or equivalent anti-bribery and
    corruption laws in countries in which we do business could
    result in sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our
    indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our
    business.

As of January 2, 2011, we had $250.0 million in total
    outstanding indebtedness which included $250.0 million in
    senior unsecured notes issued and sold in a private placement
    transaction in September 2010 and no amounts under our prior
    $590.0 million credit facility. On February 25, 2011,
    we refinanced our prior $590.0 million credit facility that
    was set to expire in July 2011 and had $273.0 million
    outstanding under our new $550.0 million credit facility,
    which does not terminate until February 25, 2016. Our
    indebtedness could harm our business by, among other things,
    reducing the funds available to make new strategic acquisitions.
    Our indebtedness could also have a material adverse effect on
    our business by increasing our vulnerability to general adverse
    economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business.
    General adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn
    in our business could result in our inability to repay this
    indebtedness in a timely manner. Also, borrowing rates are
    higher under our new $550.0 million credit facility due to
    changes in market conditions since our last credit facility was
    put in place in 2006. A 100 basis point increase in
    interest rates results in an annual interest expense of
    approximately $2.7 million, assuming the
    $273.0 million in floating rate debt were outstanding for
    the full year. We may also elect to raise other forms of debt
    capital, depending on financial, market and economic conditions.

Product
    liability claims, product recalls and field service actions
    could have a material adverse effect on our reputation,
    business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

As a manufacturer and distributor of a wide variety of products,
    including aircraft engines (which is part of our discontinued
    operations and subject to divestiture), monitoring instruments
    and medical devices, our results of operations are susceptible
    to adverse publicity regarding the quality or safety of our
    products. In part, product liability claims challenging the
    safety of our products may result in a decline in sales for a
    particular product, which could adversely affect our results of
    operations. This could be the case even if the claims themselves
    are proven untrue or settled for immaterial amounts.

While we have general liability and other insurance policies
    concerning product liabilities, we have self-insured retentions
    or deductibles under such policies with respect to a portion of
    these liabilities. For example, our current annual self-insured
    retention for general aviation aircraft liabilities incurred in
    connection with products manufactured by Teledyne Continental
    Motors, Inc. (now part of discontinued operations and subject to
    divestiture), is approximately $5.0 million, a decrease
    from $17.2 million for the prior annual period. Our
    existing aircraft product liability insurance policy expires on
    May 31, 2011. Additionally, based on facts and
    circumstances of claims, we have not always accrued amounts up
    to the applicable annual self-insured retentions. Awarded
    damages could be more than our accruals. We could incur losses
    above the aggregate annual policy limit as well.

Product recalls can be expensive and tarnish our reputation and
    have a material adverse effect on the sales of our products. In
    2009, our discontinued operations commenced two product recalls
    for which pre-tax charges aggregating $20.8 million had
    been recorded to cover estimated costs associated with the
    recall and replacement of the affected cylinders and lifters.

We have been joined, among a number of defendants (often over
    100), in lawsuits alleging injury or death as a result of
    exposure to asbestos. We have not incurred material liabilities
    in connection with these lawsuits. The filings typically do not
    identify any of our products as a source of asbestos exposure,
    and we have been dismissed from cases for lack of product
    identification, but only after some defense costs have been
    incurred. Also, because of the prominent “Teledyne”
    name, we may be mistakenly joined in lawsuits involving a
    company or business that was not assumed by us as part of our
    1999 spin-off. Our historic insurance coverage, including that
    of its predecessors, may not fully cover such claims and the
    defense of such matters. Coverage



typically depends on the year of purported exposure and other
    factors. Nonetheless, we intend to defend these claims
    vigorously. Congress from time to time has considered tort
    reform to deal with asbestos-related claims, but to date nothing
    has materialized.

Certain gas generators historically manufactured by Teledyne
    Energy Systems, Inc. contained a sealed, wetted asbestos
    component. While the company has transitioned to a replacement
    material, had placed warning labels on its products and took
    care in handling of this discontinued material by employees,
    there is no assurance that the Company will not face product
    liability or workers compensation claims involving this
    component.

Our Teledyne Brown Engineering’s laboratory in Knoxville,
    Tennessee performs radiological analyses. While the laboratory
    is certified by the Department of Energy and the Nuclear
    Procurement Issues Committee, also known as NUPIC, and has other
    nuclear-related certifications and internal quality controls in
    place, errors and omissions in analyses may occur. We currently
    have errors and omissions insurance coverage and nuclear
    liability insurance coverage that might apply depending on the
    circumstances. We also have sought indemnities from some of our
    customers. Our insurance coverage or indemnities, however, may
    not be adequate to cover potential problems associated with
    faulty radiological analyses.

Teledyne Brown Engineering, Inc. and other Teledyne companies
    manufacture components for customers in the nuclear power
    market, including utilities and certain governmental entities.
    The components include, for example, penetration assemblies,
    waste storage canisters, and process equipment. Certain
    liabilities associated with such products are covered by the
    Price Anderson Act and other statutory and common law defenses,
    and we have received indemnities from some of our customers.
    However, there is no assurance we will not face product
    liability claims related to such products.

We cannot assure that we will not have additional product
    liability claims or that we will not recall any additional
    products.

We may
    have difficulty obtaining product liability and other insurance
    coverages, or be subject to increased costs for such
    coverage.

As a manufacturer of a variety of products, including aircraft
    engines used in general aviation aircraft (now part of our
    discontinued operations and subject to divestiture), we have
    general liability and other insurance policies that provide
    coverage beyond self-insured retentions or deductibles. We
    cannot assure that, for 2011 and in future years, insurance
    carriers will be willing to renew coverage or provide new
    coverage for product liability, especially as it relates to
    general aviation. Over the last several years, the number of
    insurance companies providing general aviation product liability
    insurance coverage has decreased. Even if such insurance is
    available, we may be required to pay substantially higher prices
    for coverage

and/or

increase our levels of self-insured retentions or reserves. Our
    current aircraft product liability insurance policy expires on
    May 31, 2011, and has an annual self-insured retention of
    approximately $5.0 million.

To offset aircraft product liability insurance costs, we
    continue to work to reduce manufacturing and other costs and
    also to pass on such insurance costs through price increases on
    our aircraft engines and spare parts. We cannot provide
    assurances that further cost reduction efforts will prove
    successful or that customers will accept additional price
    increases. Aircraft engines and spare part cost increases,
    coupled with increased costs of insurance for general aviation
    aircraft owners, tend to result in decreasing aftermarket sales
    of our piston engines and component parts. This, in turn, leaves
    our discontinued operations more dependent on sales to OEMs,
    which is more dependent on general economic conditions.

For certain electronic components for medical applications that
    we manufacture, such as those that go into cardiac
    defibrillators, we have asked for indemnities from our customers

and/or

to be
    included under their insurance policies. We cannot, however,
    provide any assurance that such indemnities or insurance will
    offset potential liabilities that we may incur as a result of
    our manufacture of such components. Additionally, while we have
    been exiting the manufacture of some medical components, claims
    may still arise after such manufacturing ceases.



Aside from the uncertainties created by external events that can
    affect insurance coverages, such as the crash of Air France
    Flight 447 in the Atlantic Ocean in June 2009, the American
    International Group, Inc. 2008 failure and bailout, the
    devastating 2005 hurricane season or September 11th events, our
    ability to obtain product liability insurance and the cost for
    such insurance are affected by our historical claims experience.
    While we have taken steps to improve our claims management
    process over the last few years, we cannot assure that, for 2011
    and in future years, our ability to obtain insurance, or the
    cost for such insurance, or the amount of self-insured
    retentions, reserves or limits, will not be negatively impacted
    by our experience in prior years.

Our
    pension expenses and the value of our pension assets are
    affected by factors outside of our control, including the
    performance of plan assets, the stock market, interest rates and
    actuarial data.

We have a defined benefit qualified pension plan covering most
    of our U.S. employees hired prior to 2004. The value of the
    combined pension assets is currently less than our accumulated
    pension benefit obligation. Given our pension plan’s
    underfunded status, in 2004 we began making required cash
    contributions to our qualified pension plan. In 2010, we made
    pretax cash contributions to our U.S. defined benefit
    qualified pension plan totaling $37.0 million, all of which
    was beyond what was required under ERISA. For 2009 and 2008,
    pretax cash contributions totaled $117.0 million and
    $58.7 million, respectively. In 2011, we currently expect
    to make a pretax voluntary cash contribution of
    $37.0 million, plus an additional $32.0 million pretax
    voluntary cash contribution if the divestiture of our piston
    engines businesses is completed. The accounting rules applicable
    to our qualified pension plan require that amounts recognized in
    the financial statements be determined on an actuarial basis,
    rather than as contributions are made to the plan. Two
    significant elements in determining our pension income or
    pension expense are the expected return on plan assets and the
    discount rate used in projecting pension benefit obligations.
    Declines in the stock market and lower rates of return could
    increase required contributions to our qualified pension plan.
    Any decreases or increases in market interest rates will affect
    the discount rate assumption used in projecting pension benefit
    obligations. If, and to the extent, decreases are not offset by
    voluntary contributions or asset returns, our required cash
    contributions and pension expense could increase under the
    plans. For additional discussion of pension matters, see the
    discussion under “Item 7. Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition” and Notes 2 and 12 to Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. At the end of 2007, we changed some
    investment allocations to reduce exposure to deterioration in
    the subprime mortgage market. Throughout 2008 and until the
    latter part of 2009, given market disruptions and volatility, we
    maintained a greater amount in fixed income investments,
    including in U.S. Treasury notes, to achieve greater
    stability in our pension assets. During the second half of 2009,
    we began to change our investment strategy to more active
    management and increase our equity investments. Due to timing of
    investment allocation changes, we may not have benefited from
    some upswings in certain investments and in the future we may
    not benefit from any such upswings to the extent we change
    investment allocations to meet our current strategy.
    Additionally, our investment strategy may not be successful if
    the credit, financial or stock markets deteriorate.

Our
    future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset
    impairment charges.

Under current accounting guidance, we are required to test
    annually both acquired goodwill and other indefinite-lived
    intangible assets for impairment based upon a fair value
    approach, rather than amortizing them over time. We have chosen
    to perform our annual impairment reviews of goodwill and other
    indefinite-lived intangible assets during the fourth quarter of
    each fiscal year. We also are required to test goodwill for
    impairment between annual tests if events occur or circumstances
    change that would more likely than not reduce our enterprise
    fair value below its book value. These events or circumstances
    could include a significant change in the business climate,
    including a significant sustained decline in an entity’s
    market value, legal factors, operating performance indicators,
    competition, sale or disposition of a significant portion of the
    business, or other factors. If the fair market value is less
    than the carrying value, including goodwill, we could be
    required to record an impairment charge. The valuation of
    reporting units requires judgment in estimating future cash
    flows, discount rates and estimated product life cycles. In
    making these judgments, we evaluate the financial health of the
    business, including such factors as industry performance,
    changes in technology and operating cash flows. As we have grown
    through acquisitions, we have accumulated $546.3 million of



goodwill, and have $113.9 million of net acquired
    intangible assets, which includes $37.8 million of
    indefinite-lived intangible assets, out of total assets of
    $1,557.8 million at January 2, 2011. As a result, the
    amount of any annual or interim impairment could be significant
    and could have a material adverse effect on our reported
    financial results for the period in which the charge is taken.
    We also may be required to record an earnings charge or incur
    unanticipated expenses if, as a result of a change in strategy
    or other reason, we were to determine the value of other assets
    had been impaired.

Generally accepted accounting principles require that a
    long-lived asset to be disposed of be reported at the lower of
    its carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. An asset
    (other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets) is
    considered impaired when estimated future cash flows are less
    than the carrying amount of the asset. In the event the carrying
    amount of such asset is not deemed recoverable, the asset is
    adjusted to its estimated fair value. Fair value is generally
    determined based upon estimated discounted future cash flows.

We may
    not have sufficient resources to fund all future research and
    development and capital expenditures or possible
    acquisitions.

In order to remain competitive, we must make a substantial
    investment in research and development of new or enhanced
    products and continuously upgrade our process technology and
    manufacturing capabilities. In September 2006, we acquired
    Rockwell Scientific Company LLC, a provider of research and
    development services primarily in the areas of electronics,
    optics, information sciences and materials technologies. With
    Teledyne Scientific Company in our portfolio, we have been more
    actively promoting and funding joint research and development
    projects with other Teledyne businesses, including Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., Teledyne Reynolds, Inc. and our
    Teledyne Oil & Gas businesses. In 2010, we funded
    $47.0 million for research and development, compared to
    $45.1 million in 2009 and $47.8 million in 2008. Our
    capital expenditures totaled $31.0 million in 2010,
    $33.5 million in 2009 and $38.2 million in 2008.
    Although we believe that anticipated cash flows from operations
    and available borrowings under our new $550.0 million
    credit facility will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated
    working capital, research and development and capital investment
    needs, including increased capital spending required by Teledyne
    DALSA, we may be unable to fund all of these needs or possible
    acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital will
    depend on a variety of factors, some of which will not be within
    our control, including the existence of a public offering
    market, investor perceptions of us, our businesses and the
    industries in which we operate, and general economic conditions.
    Although we successfully issued and sold $250.0 million in
    senior unsecured notes in a private placement transaction in
    September 2010, we may be unable to successfully raise
    additional capital, if needed. Failure to successfully raise
    needed capital on a timely or cost-effective basis could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations
    and financial condition.

We may be
    unsuccessful in our efforts to increase our participation in
    certain new markets.

We intend to both adapt our existing technologies and develop
    new products to expand into new market segments. We have been
    developing new electronic products, including high-power solid
    state microwave devices and tactical military camera systems,
    which are intended to access markets in which Teledyne does not
    currently participate or has limited participation. We may be
    unsuccessful in accessing these and other new markets if our
    products do not meet our customers’ requirements, as a
    result of changes in either technology and industry standards or
    because of actions taken by our competitors.

Limitations in customer funding for applied research and
    development and technology insertion projects due to the present
    economic conditions and the significant expenditures in Iraq and
    Afghanistan, as well as ongoing turmoil in Middle Eastern
    countries, may reduce our ability to apply our ongoing
    investments in some market areas. For example, our Engineered
    Systems segment’s development of Service Oriented
    Architectures for U.S. Department of Defense applications
    relies heavily on funding from customers who are actively
    competing for resources with war driven recapitalization,
    resupply and modernization requirements.

Teledyne DALSA is reliant on the Next Generation of Job Fund
    which is a grant from a provincial government authority to
    support research and development expenditures. Teledyne DALSA is
    also reliant on



some government authorities for various tax incentives related
    to research and development, which drive and promote research
    and development spending. Changes in the Canadian and provincial
    governments’ policies could inhibit Teledyne DALSA’s
    ability to participate in new markets.

As discussed elsewhere herein, there has been a downturn in the
    general aviation market as a direct result of deteriorated
    economic and credit conditions in the United States and the
    world generally. In addition to our discontinued operations, as
    previously stated, this deterioration could further impact
    battery sales of our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment.
    While we will try to offset such impact with battery sales to
    the military and into other applications, we may not be able to
    offset any such impact. Advanced lithium ion aircraft battery
    technology could also adversely affect our lead batteries sales
    and our ability to enter into new OEM jet markets.

We may be
    unable to successfully introduce new and enhanced products in a
    timely and cost-effective manner, which could harm our growth
    and prospects.

Our operating results depend in part on our ability to introduce
    new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Successful product
    development and introduction depend on numerous factors,
    including our ability to anticipate customer and market
    requirements, changes in technology and industry standards, our
    ability to differentiate our offerings from offerings of our
    competitors, and market acceptance. We may not be able to
    develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner or to develop and introduce products that
    satisfy customer requirements. However, our involvement, through
    the 2011- acquisition of DALSA, in the microelectronic
    innovation center in Bromont, Quebec, Canada, will provide us
    with access to a well-equipped MEMS research and development
    center, which we believe may help to improve our technology
    development capability.

Our new products also may not achieve market acceptance or
    correctly address new industry standards and technological
    changes. As an example, we continue to work to develop high
    power solid state power amplifiers, which could replace our
    traveling wave tubes in some applications, and, in this field,
    there is a larger base of potential competitors than there is
    for tube amplifiers. As a result, it may be more difficult for
    our solid state power amplifier products to gain market
    acceptance. We may also lose any technological advantage to
    competitors if we fail to develop new products in a timely
    manner. For example, if we fail to timely develop a permanent
    reservoir monitoring system for deep water applications, our
    growth and prospects in the deep water arena could be hampered.

Additionally, new products may trigger increased warranty costs
    as such products are tested further by actual usage. Accelerated
    entry of new products to meet heightened market demand and
    competitive pressures may cause additional warranty costs as
    development and testing time periods might be accelerated or
    condensed.

Technological
    change and evolving industry and regulatory standards could
    cause certain of our products or services to become obsolete or
    non-competitive.

The markets for some of our products and services are
    characterized by rapid technological development, evolving
    industry standards, changes in customer requirements and new
    product introductions and enhancements. A faster than
    anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to
    our products or services, or in market demand for products or
    services based on a particular technology, could result in
    faster than anticipated obsolescence of certain of our products
    or services and could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition. For
    example, Teledyne Reynolds’ high voltage connector business
    could be negatively impacted by marketplace shifts to lower
    voltage requirements where the number of competitors is larger.
    Most lighting displays in legacy aircraft use illumination
    devices that require high voltage connectors. LED backlights,
    which are increasingly being used for aircraft lighting
    displays, have substantially lower voltage requirements.

Currently accepted industry and regulatory standards are also
    subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of
    our products or services. For example, effective July 1,
    2006, a European directive, referred to as RoHS or the
    Restriction on Hazardous Substances directive, provided that
    certain electronic



products must not contain impermissible levels of lead, mercury,
    cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls or
    polybrominated diphenyl ethers. As a result, we must make sure
    that certain of our electronic products sold into European
    member states comply with this directive. Although many of our
    products are exempt from the European directive, we continue to
    expect that, over time, component manufacturers may discontinue
    selling components that have the restricted substances. This
    will, in turn, require us to accommodate changes in parameters,
    such as the way parts are soldered, and may, in some cases,
    require redesign of certain products. This could lead to
    increased costs, which we may not be able to recover from our
    customers, delays in product shipments and loss of market share
    to competitors. The European Union’s

2007-adopted

Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of
    Chemical substance reform legislation, commonly referred to as
    REACH, which requires registration and selective evaluation of
    more than 30,000 chemical substances that are deemed of high
    risk to environment, health and safety, is also expected to
    have, over time, an impact on the electronics supply chain
    similar to the RoHS. Additionally, similar laws restricting
    hazardous substances have been promulgated in various
    non-European countries, including China and Korea, as well as in
    various U.S. states.

Revenues of our Teledyne Test Services business, which provides
    testing and certification for products used in nuclear power
    plants, could be negatively impacted in the event of any changes
    in certification standards by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.

Additionally, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
    continues to target general aviation fuel as a key contributor
    to lead in the atmosphere and could try to impose lead-free fuel
    regulations on general aviation. Such a change in the fuel
    standard could have an adverse impact on our discontinued
    operations, including increasing research and development costs.
    In part, we have been working to manufacture an engine that uses
    diesel fuel to address this risk.

We may
    not be able to reduce the costs of our products to satisfy
    customers’ cost reduction mandates, which could harm our
    sales or margins.

More and more customers continue to seek price reductions of our
    products. While we continually work to reduce our manufacturing
    and other costs of our products, without affecting product
    quality and reliability, there is no assurance that we will be
    able to do so and do so in a timely manner to satisfy the
    pricing pressures of our customers. Cost reductions of raw
    materials and other components used in our products may be
    beyond our control depending on market, credit and economic
    conditions. Customers may seek lower cost products from China
    and other developing countries where manufacturing costs are
    lower.

The
    airline industry is heavily regulated, and if we fail to comply
    with applicable requirements, our results of operations could
    suffer.

Governmental agencies throughout the world, including the
    U.S. Federal Aviation Administration, or the FAA, prescribe
    standards and qualification requirements for aircraft
    components, including virtually all commercial airline and
    general aviation products, as well as regulations regarding the
    repair and overhaul of aircraft engines. Specific regulations
    vary from country to country, although compliance with FAA
    requirements generally satisfies regulatory requirements in
    other countries. We include, with the products and replacement
    parts that we sell to our aircraft industry customers,
    documentation certifying that each part complies with applicable
    regulatory requirements and meets applicable standards of
    airworthiness established by the FAA or the equivalent
    regulatory agencies in other countries. In order to sell our
    products, we and the products we manufacture must also be
    certified by our individual original equipment manufacturer, or
    OEM, customers. If any material authorization or approval
    qualifying us to supply our products is revoked or suspended,
    then the sale of the product would be prohibited by law, which
    would have an adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.

From time to time, the FAA or equivalent regulatory agencies in
    other countries propose new regulations or changes to existing
    regulations, which are usually more stringent than existing
    regulations. If these proposed regulations are adopted and
    enacted, we may incur significant additional costs to achieve
    compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.



Increasing
    competition could reduce the demand for our products and
    services.

Although we believe that we have certain advantages that help us
    compete in our markets, each of our markets is highly
    competitive. Many of our competitors have, and potential
    competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger
    installed base of products, more extensive engineering,
    manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and
    greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we
    do. New or existing competitors may also develop new
    technologies that could adversely affect the demand for our
    products and services. Industry acquisition and consolidation
    trends, particularly among aerospace and defense contractors,
    have adversely impacted demand for our aerospace and defense
    related engineering services as large prime contractors
    in-source increased amounts of major acquisition programs and
    also require significant expansion in small business
    participation to meet Government contracting goals. Low-cost
    competition from China and other developing countries could also
    result in decreased demand for our products. Increasing
    competition could reduce the volume of our sales or the prices
    we may charge, which would negatively impact our revenues.

We sell
    products to customers in industries that may again undergo rapid
    and unpredictable changes, which could adversely affect our
    operations results or production levels.

We develop and manufacture products for customers in industries
    that have undergone rapid changes in the past. For example, we
    manufacture products and provide manufacturing services to
    companies that serve telecommunications markets. During 2001,
    many segments of the telecommunications market experienced a
    dramatic and rapid downturn that resulted in cancellations or
    deferrals of orders for our products and services. This market,
    or others that we serve, may exhibit rapid changes in the future
    and may adversely affect our operating results, or our
    production levels, or both. We also manufacture products using
    fuel cell technology, which is a market that is not
    well-established and subject to significant change and evolution.

Our Engineered Systems segment manufactures gas centrifuge
    service modules for Fluor Enterprises, Inc., acting as agent for
    USEC, Inc., used in the American Centrifuge Project. We
    anticipate increased sales of gas centrifuge service modules in
    2011 due to a likely return to full production for the American
    Centrifuge Project. In May 2010, USEC announced that Toshiba and
    Babcock and Wilcox signed definitive agreements to provide
    co-investments of $100 million each in the American
    Centrifuge Plant payable in three installments. In late July
    2010, USEC updated its application to the Department of Energy,
    which triggered the initial investment of $75.0 million
    from Toshiba and Babcock and Wilcox. In anticipation of a
    favorable adjudication of its loan application and in light of
    the investment from the new partners, USEC began remobilization
    of the project in early September 2010. However, USEC has not
    authorized a return to full production. Failure to secure the
    loan guarantees would seriously jeopardize USEC’s ability
    to finance, and therefore complete, the centrifuge project.
    Continuation of this project beyond mid-year 2011 may
    depend on USEC receiving a favorable ruling regarding its loan
    guarantee application. If USEC does not receive a favorable
    ruling, future funding on this program could be reduced or
    eliminated. In such an event, our Engineered Systems segment may
    experience reduced sales.

Our
    business and financial results could be adversely affected by
    conditions and other factors associated with our
    suppliers.

Some items we purchase for the manufacture of our products,
    including certain gyro components for some marine navigation
    applications, certain magnets and helix wire for our traveling
    wave tubes and certain infrared detectors substrates are
    purchased from limited or single sources of supply due to
    technical capability, price and other factors. We have also
    outsourced from time to time the manufacturing of certain parts,
    components, subsystems and even finished products to single or
    limited sources, including international sources. For example,
    Teledyne Relays outsources the manufacture of certain relays and
    relay components to Taiwan and India, as well as our own
    facility in Mexico. Teledyne Imaging Sensors outsources the
    manufacture of read-out integrated circuits for focal plane
    arrays to a Taiwanese foundry. Disruption of these sources could
    cause delays or reductions in shipments of our products or
    increases in our costs, which could have an adverse effect on
    our financial condition or operations. International sources
    possess additional risks, some of which are similar to those
    described above in regard to international sales. With any
    continuing



disruption in the global economy and financial markets, some of
    our suppliers may also continue to face issues gaining access to
    sufficient credit to maintain their businesses, which could
    reduce the availability of some components and, to the extent
    such suppliers are single source suppliers, could adversely
    affect our ability to continue to manufacture and sell our
    products. Continuing economic pressure on suppliers may also
    trigger increased pricing or workforce reductions or reduced
    workweeks possibly creating longer lead times to obtain needed
    components for our products.

Compliance
    with increasing environmental and climate change regulations, as
    well as the effects of potential environmental liabilities,
    could have a material adverse financial effect on us.

We, like other industry participants, are subject to various
    federal, state, local and international environmental laws and
    regulations. We may be subject to increasingly stringent
    environmental standards in the future, particularly as green
    house gas emissions and climate change regulations and
    initiatives increase. Future developments, administrative
    actions or liabilities relating to environmental and climate
    change matters could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations or financial condition.

While we have, as part of our overall risk management program,
    an environmental management and compliance program applicable to
    our operating facilities, including a “review and
    audit” program to monitor compliance where each facility is
    reviewed and audited by an internal environmental team every
    three years, such program does not eliminate potential
    environmental liabilities. In addition, while we conduct
    environmental-related due diligence in acquisitions and
    generally seek some form of protection, including
    indemnification from a seller, companies we acquire may have
    environmental liabilities that are not accurately assessed or
    brought to our attention at the time of the acquisition.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see the
    discussion under the caption “Other Matters —
    Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial
    Condition” and Note 15 to Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Increased environmental regulatory monitoring requirements of
    the air we breathe and the water we drink could have a favorable
    effect on the results of operations or financial condition of
    our instrumentation businesses, including the sulfur dioxide,
    carbon monoxide and ozone gas monitoring business of Teledyne
    Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc., the air quality
    monitoring business of Teledyne Monitor Labs, Inc., the water
    quality monitoring business of Teledyne Isco, Inc., and the
    mercury monitoring business of Teledyne Leeman Labs. In
    contrast, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s
    efforts to limit lead emissions from general aviation gasoline
    could adversely affect our discontinued operations.
    Consequently, in part, we have been working to manufacture an
    engine that uses unleaded diesel fuel to address this risk.
    Also, while our lead-acid battery manufacturing facility in
    Redlands, CA has scrubbers and other pollution control devices
    in place, additional lead-related air-emission limitations and
    other requirements could trigger additional expenditures and
    adversely affect the financial results of our Aerospace and
    Defense Electronics segment.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced that
    greenhouse gases (GHGs) threaten the public health and welfare
    of the American people. EPA also maintains that GHG emissions
    from on-road vehicles contribute to that threat. EPA’s
    endangerment finding covers emissions of six greenhouse
    gases — carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide,
    hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), perfluorocarbons (PFC) and sulfur
    hexafluoride (SF6). EPA’s efforts to limit GHG emissions
    could adversely affect our U.S. manufacturing operations.
    Restrictions on carbon dioxide emissions may impact energy, fuel
    and transportation prices. Restrictions on HFCs, PFs and SF6
    gases may impact the way these compounds are used and controlled
    at certain of our facilities. This may, in turn, require us to
    accommodate changes in parameters, such as the way parts are
    manufactured, and may, in some cases, require redesign of
    certain products. This could lead to increased costs, which we
    may not be able to recover from customers, delays in product
    shipments and loss of market share to competitors.



Our
    inability to attract and retain key personnel could have a
    material adverse effect on our future success.

Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the
    continued service of our executive officers and other key
    management and technical personnel and on our ability to
    continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We
    also have a maturing work force. While we have engaged in
    succession planning, the loss of the services of one or more of
    our key employees or our failure to attract, retain and motivate
    qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our Engineered Systems segment has been facing increasing
    competition for qualified engineering personnel as a result of
    the Department of Defense 2005 Base Realignment and Closure
    (also known as BRAC) decisions, particularly as positions
    continue to move to Huntsville, Alabama over the next several
    years. In addition, the U.S. Secretary of Defense announced
    in 2009 that the Department would decrease the use of
    contractors in support services and increase funding for civil
    service positions in those areas. As a result of this trend, our
    Engineered Systems segment lost personnel as their jobs were
    changed from contractor to Federal civil service positions. This
    trend may continue in 2011. The Engineered Systems segment is
    also losing personnel due to employees pursing vacancies that
    have been created in various industries as other employees
    accept employment with the U.S. government.

A labor
    strike or work stoppage could have a material adverse affect on
    our business.

While we believe our overall relations with our employees to be
    good, a labor strike or work stoppage at our union-represented
    or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on us.
    The International Union of United Automobile, Aerospace and
    Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents
    approximately 250 active employees at our Teledyne Continental
    Motors piston engine manufacturing facility in Mobile, Alabama
    under a collective bargaining agreement that expires by its
    terms on March 20, 2013. This union also represents
    approximately 10 active employees at the Teledyne Turbine
    Engines facility in Toledo, Ohio under a collective bargaining
    agreement that expires on November 8, 2014. Upon expiration
    of these agreements, there can be no assurance that a strike or
    work stoppage would not occur. As Teledyne Continental Motors,
    Inc. is part of discontinued operations and is subject to
    divestiture, the Mobile, Alabama collective bargaining agreement
    and the active employees represented thereby will be included
    with the sale.

We may
    not be able to sell, or exit on acceptable terms, businesses
    that we determine no longer meet with our growth
    strategy.

Consistent with our growth strategy to focus on markets to
    expand our profitable niche businesses, we continually evaluate
    our businesses to ensure that they are aligned with our
    strategy. Most recently, this review led to the decision to sell
    our general aviation piston engines businesses, which sale is
    expected to close in the 1st quarter of 2011. After the
    June 2004 acquisition of Isco, Inc., we determined that the
    on-line process control instrumentation business of its German
    subsidiary was not aligned with our strategy, and in March 2005,
    we sold this non-strategic business. In 2007, principally
    because of the decision of a customer to manufacture certain
    medical products at its facilities in India, we closed our
    contract manufacturing operations in El Rubi, Tijuana, Mexico
    and transferred the remaining operations to our La Mesa,
    Tijuana, Mexico and our Lewisburg, Tennessee facilities.

Our ability to dispose of or exit businesses that may no longer
    be aligned with our growth strategy will depend on many factors,
    including the terms and conditions of any asset purchase and
    sale agreement, as well as industry, business and economic
    conditions. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able
    to sell non-strategic businesses on terms that are acceptable to
    us, or at all. Also, if the sale of any non-strategic business
    cannot be consummated or is not practical, alternative courses
    of action, including closure, may not be available to us or may
    be more costly than anticipated.



Natural
    disasters, such as a serious earthquake or wildfire in
    California, a major hurricane in Alabama, Florida or Texas, or
    an ice storm in Canada, as well as man-made environmental
    disasters such as 2010 Gulf of Mexico Oil spill, could adversely
    affect our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.

Several of our facilities, as a result of their locations could
    be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquakes,
    hurricanes, tornados, floods, ice storms or other natural
    disasters. Many of our production facilities and our
    headquarters are located in California and thus are in areas
    with above average seismic activity and may also be at risk of
    damage in wildfires. Teledyne DALSA’s facility in Quebec
    has in the past been impacted by severe ice storms. In addition,
    we have manufacturing facilities in the Southeastern United
    States and Texas that have been threatened and struck by major
    hurricanes. Our facilities in Alabama, Florida, Nebraska and
    Tennessee have also been threatened by tornados. While Teledyne
    Continental Motors’ piston-engines manufacturing facility
    located in Mobile, Alabama (which is now part of our
    discontinued operations and subject to divestiture), Teledyne
    Geophysical Instruments’ facility in Houston, Texas,
    Teledyne ODI’s facility in Daytona Beach, Florida and
    Teledyne Odom’s facility in Baton Rouge, Louisiana were
    relatively fortunate with respect to the building damage and
    business interruption they suffered during the previous
    hurricane season, there can be no assurance that any one of them
    will be as fortunate in the future. If any of our California
    facilities, including our California headquarters, were to
    experience a catastrophic earthquake or wildfire loss or if any
    of our Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Nebraska, Tennessee or Texas
    facilities were to experience a catastrophic hurricane, storm,
    tornado or other natural disaster, such event could disrupt our
    operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result
    in large expenses to repair or replace the facility or
    facilities. While Teledyne has property insurance to partially
    reimburse it for losses caused by windstorm and earth movement,
    such insurance would not cover all possible losses. In addition,
    our existing disaster recovery and business continuity plans
    (including those relating to our information technology systems)
    may not be fully responsive to, or minimize losses associated
    with, catastrophic events.

The environmental disaster triggered by the Deepwater Horizon
    rig explosion and oil spill in 2010 resulted in a moratorium on
    offshore oil and gas production in the Gulf of Mexico that
    adversely affected the results of operations of some of our
    Teledyne Oil and Gas businesses, although such adverse impact
    was offset, in part, by the products we manufacture that
    supported well-capping and environmental

clean-up

efforts. Similar future man-made disasters that limit or cease
    offshore oil and gas production or further exploration in the
    regions in which we sell our products could have a material
    adverse affect on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.

We may
    not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property
    rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our
    business.

Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software
    licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to
    general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the
    enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various
    countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often
    subject to claims that the intellectual property right is
    invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the
    party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, as our
    Teledyne Controls business has experienced, our assertion of
    intellectual property rights often results in the other party
    seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its
    own or assert other claims against us. If we are not ultimately
    successful in defending ourselves against these claims in
    litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or
    family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay
    damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. Our
    inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under
    these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our
    business.

Our
    financial statements are based on estimates required by GAAP,
    and actual results may differ materially from those estimated
    under different assumptions or conditions.

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
    These principles require our management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
    liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
    reported amounts of



revenue and expenses during the reporting period. For example,
    estimates are used when accounting for items such as asset
    valuations, allowances for doubtful accounts, depreciation and
    amortization, impairment assessments, employee benefits, taxes,
    recall costs, aircraft product and general liability and
    contingencies. While we base our estimates on historical
    experience and on various assumptions that we believe to be
    reasonable under the circumstances at the time made, actual
    results may differ materially from those estimated.

While we
    believe our internal control systems are effective, there are
    inherent limitations in all control systems, and misstatements
    resulting from error or fraud may occur and may not be
    detected.

We continue to take action to assure compliance with the
    internal controls, disclosure controls and other requirements of
    the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our management, including our
    Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, cannot
    guarantee that our internal controls and disclosure controls
    will prevent all possible errors or all fraud. A control system,
    no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only
    reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the
    control system are met. In addition, the design of a control
    system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints
    and the benefit of controls must be relative to their costs.
    Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
    system of controls can provide absolute assurance that all
    control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the
    Company have been detected. These inherent limitations include
    the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty
    and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or
    mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual
    acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by
    management override of the controls. The design of any system of
    controls is also based, in part, upon certain assumptions about
    the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance
    that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under
    all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be
    inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of
    compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
    Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control
    system, misstatements resulting from error or fraud may occur
    and may not be detected.

Provisions
    of our governing documents, applicable law, and our Change in
    Control Severance Agreements could make an acquisition of
    Teledyne Technologies more difficult.

Our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, our Amended and
    Restated Bylaws and the General Corporation Law of the State of
    Delaware contain several provisions that could make the
    acquisition of control of Teledyne, in a transaction not
    approved by our board of directors, more difficult. We have also
    entered into Change in Control Severance Agreements with 16
    members of our management, which could have an anti-takeover
    effect. These provisions may prevent or discourage attempts to
    acquire our company.

The
    market price of our Common Stock has fluctuated significantly
    since our spin-off from ATI, and could continue to do
    so.

Since the spin-off from ATI on November 29, 1999, the
    market price of our Common Stock has ranged from a low of
    $7.6875 to a high of $66.21 per share. During 2010 alone, the
    market price of our Common Stock ranged from $35.34 to $45.25
    per share. At February 25, 2011, our closing stock price
    was $52.57. Fluctuations in our stock price could continue.
    Among the factors that could affect our stock price are:

•

quarterly variations in our operating results;

•

strategic actions by us or our competitors;

•

acquisitions;

•

divestitures;

•

adverse business developments;

•

war in the Middle East or elsewhere;

•

terrorist activities;



•

military or homeland defense activities;

•

changes to the U.S. Federal budget;

•

changes in the energy exploration or production, semiconductor,
    digital imaging, telecommunications, commercial and general
    aviation, and electronic manufacturing services markets

•

general market conditions;

•

changes in tax laws;

•

general economic factors unrelated to our performance; and

•

one or more of the other risk factors described in this report.

The stock markets in general, and the markets for high
    technology companies in particular, have experienced a high
    degree of volatility that is not necessarily related to the
    operating performance of these companies. We cannot provide
    assurances as to our stock price.

Item 1B.

Unresolved
    Staff Comments.

By letter dated February 28, 2011, the staff of the Division of
    Corporation Finance at the Securities and Exchange Commission
    has informed us that there remains an unresolved comment with
    respect to the staff’s review of our Annual Report on Form
    10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2010, filed on March
    2, 2010. The staff believes that each of our business units are
    operating segments and that any aggregation of operating
    segments into reportable segments should begin at the business
    unit level and that our fiscal 2010 Form 10-K disclosure should
    reflect this approach. We have determined that our reporting
    business units are aggregated into four reportable segments (not
    including discontinued operations) as set forth in this 2010
    Form 10-K. After an extensive and careful review, including
    consultation with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors
    and our external auditors, including their national office, we
    believe our determination of operating segments and reportable
    segments is consistent with applicable accounting literature,
    including Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards
    Codification ASC 280 — Segment Reporting. We have
    determined that there is no impairment of goodwill or other
    intangible assets if impairment testing is performed at the
    reporting business unit level. We will continue to work with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission to resolve this comment. If
    the SEC does not agree with us, we may amend and restate our
    2010 Form 10-K to reflect a different reporting segment
    structure.

Item 2.

Properties

Our principal facilities as of February 25, 2011, are
    listed below. Although the facilities vary in terms of age and
    condition, our management believes that these facilities have
    generally been well maintained and are adequate for current
    operations.

Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Instrumentation Segment

United States

City of Industry, California

Development and production of precision oxygen analyzers

Owned

Poway, California

Development and production of underwater acoustic instrumentation

Leased

San Diego, California

Development and production of environmental monitoring
    instrumentation

Leased

San Diego, California

Development and production of electrical interconnection systems

Leased

Englewood, Colorado

Development and production of environmental monitoring systems

Leased

Daytona Beach, Florida

Development of subsea, wet-mateable electrical fiber-optic
    interconnection systems

Leased

Baton Rouge, Louisiana

Development and production of hydrographic survey instrumentation

Leased



Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

East Falmouth, Massachusetts

Development and production of autonomous underwater gliding
    vehicles, profilers, drifters and floats

Leased

North Falmouth, Massachusetts

Development and production of underwater acoustic
    instrumentation and package inspection systems

Owned

Lincoln, Nebraska

Development and production of water quality monitoring products,
    chemical separation instruments and flash chromatography
    instruments and consumables

Owned

Hudson, New Hampshire

Development and production of elemental analysis instruments

Leased

Seabrook, New Hampshire

Development and production of electrical and fiber optic
    interconnect systems

Leased

Mason, Ohio

Development and production of chemical analysis instruments

Leased

Houston, Texas

Development and production of geophysical streamer cables and
    hydrophones for seismic monitoring

Owned and

Leased

Hampton, Virginia

Development and production of vacuum and flow measurement
    instruments

Owned

Iceland

Reykjavik

Development and production of autonomous underwater vehicles

Leased

United Kingdom

Mitcheldean, England

Repair of geophysical streamer cables

Leased

Watford, England

Development and production of inertial sensing and navigation
    systems

Leased

Worthing, England

Development and production of corrosion monitoring equipment

Leased

Digital Imaging Segment

United States

Camarillo, California

Production of focal plane arrays and imaging sensors and systems

Owned and

Leased

Thousand Oaks, California

Provision of research and development services

Owned

Sunnyvale, California

Development and production of digital imaging products

Leased

Billerica, Massachusetts

Development and production of digital imaging products

Leased

Durham, North Carolina

Provision of research and development services

Leased

Montgomeryville, Pennsylvania

Development and production of infrared devices and accessory
    products

Owned and

Leased

Canada

Waterloo, Ontario

Development and production of digital imaging products

Owned and

Leased

Bromont, Quebec

Semiconductor design and fabrication

Owned

The Netherlands

Eindhoven

Development and production of digital imaging products

Leased

Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segment

United States

Chatsworth, California

Development and production of electronic seat ejection sequencers

Leased

El Segundo, California

Development and production of digital data acquisition systems
    for monitoring commercial aircraft and engines

Leased

Hawthorne, California

Production of electromechanical relays

Owned

Los Angeles, California

Development and production of high voltage connectors and
    subassemblies and pilot helmet mounted display components and
    subsystems

Leased

Los Angeles, California

Manufacturing of custom microelectronic assemblies

Owned and Leased

Mountain View, California

Production of microwave integrated circuits and systems

Owned

Poway, California

Development and production of defense microwave components and
    subsystems

Leased

Rancho Cordova, California

Development and production of traveling wave tubes

Owned



Facility Location

Principal Use

Owned/Leased

Redlands, California

Manufacturing of batteries for the general aviation and business
    jet market

Owned

Santa Maria, California

Development and production of high voltage capacitor products

Leased

Sunnyvale, California

Development and production of RF and microwave amplifiers and
    components

Leased

Tracy, California

Development and production of precision secondary explosive
    components

Leased

Woodridge, Illinois

Development and production of microwave cable and interconnect
    products

Leased

Hudson, New Hampshire

Production of circuit boards

Owned

State College, Pennsylvania

Development and production of solid state power amplifiers and
    components

Leased

Lewisburg, Tennessee

Development and manufacturing of electronic components and
    subsystems

Owned

Dallas, Texas

Development and production of specialty wire and cable assemblies

Leased

Mexico

Tijuana, Mexico

Manufacturing of electromechanical and solid state relays

Leased

United Kingdom

Milton Keynes, England

Development and production of microwave components

Leased

Newbury, England

Development and production of high voltage connectors and cable
    products

Leased

Shipley, England

Development and production of electronic warfare equipment

Owned

Witham, England

Development and production of solid state amplifiers

Leased

West Drayton, England

Flight data monitoring services

Leased

Cumbernauld, Scotland

Production and repair of commercial avionic systems

Leased

Cwmbran, Wales

Development and production of high voltage connectors and cable
    products

Leased

Presteigne, Wales

Development and production of microwave components

Leased

Engineered Systems Segment

United States

Huntsville, Alabama

Provision of engineering services and products, including highly
    engineered manufactured products

Owned and

Leased

Huntsville, Alabama

Production of gas centrifuge modules

Leased

Colorado Springs, Colorado

Provision of engineering services

Leased

Hunt Valley, Maryland

Manufacturing, assembling and manufacture of hydrogen

Leased

generators, power generating systems and fuel cell test

stations

Toledo, Ohio

Design, development and production of small turbine engines for
    aerospace and military markets

Leased

Knoxville, Tennessee

Laboratories and offices in support of environmental services

Leased

Arlington, Virginia

Defense program offices supporting governmental customers

Leased

United Kingdom

Birkenhead, England

Aerostructures manufacturing

Owned and

Leased

Bromborough, England

Aerostructures composites

Leased

Discontinued Operations

Mobile, Alabama

Design, development and production of new and rebuilt piston
    engines, ignition systems and spare parts for the general
    aviation market

Leased

Mattituck, New York

Supply of aftermarket parts, services and engine overhauls

Leased

for the general aviation market

We also own or lease other facilities and offices elsewhere in
    the United States and outside the United States, including
    facilities and offices in Australia, Brazil, Canada, China,
    France, Germany, Japan,



Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom. Our corporate
    executive offices are located at 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand
    Oaks, California

91360-2362.

Item 3.

Legal
    Proceedings.

From time to time, we become involved in various lawsuits,
    claims and proceedings related to the conduct of our business,
    including those pertaining to product liability, patent
    infringement, commercial, employment and employee benefits.
    While we cannot predict the outcome of any lawsuit, claim or
    proceeding, our management does not believe that the disposition
    of any pending matters is likely to have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition or liquidity. The resolution
    in any reporting period of one or more of these matters,
    however, could have a material adverse effect on the results of
    operations for that period.

In March 2009, Cold Creek Enterprises, Inc. and Bob DiSilva
    commenced a lawsuit against DALSA Corporation and certain
    related entities in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice. The
    claims originate from the interest of Mr. DiSilva’s
    company in DALSA Digital Camera Inc., a joint venture entered
    into in November 2004 and now a discontinued business of DALSA.
    The lawsuit seeks various forms of relief, including damages in
    excess of CAD $20 million. The lawsuit is being vigorously
    defended, and a counterclaim has been filed against the
    plaintiff.



PART II

Item 5.

Market
    for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities.

Price
    Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy

Our Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and
    traded under the symbol “TDY.” The following table
    sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale
    prices for the Common Stock as reported by the New York Stock
    Exchange.

High

Low


1st Quarter

$

46.75

$

21.65

2nd Quarter

$

37.57

$

26.00

3rd Quarter

$

36.31

$

29.48

4th Quarter

$

39.80

$

32.95


1st Quarter

$

42.87

$

35.64

2nd Quarter

$

44.57

$

36.19

3rd Quarter

$

43.00

$

35.34

4th Quarter

$

45.25

$

38.83


1st Quarter (through February 25, 2011)

$

53.35

$

43.56

On February 25, 2011, the closing sale price of our Common
    Stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange was $52.57 per
    share. As of February 25, 2011, there were 5,152 holders of
    record of the Common Stock.

We currently intend to retain any future earnings to fund the
    development and growth of our businesses, including through
    acquisitions. Therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash
    dividends in the foreseeable future.

Issuer
    Purchases of Equity Securities

Our stock repurchase program expired on February 28, 2010.
    In 2009, we had repurchased 36,239 shares of Teledyne
    common stock for $0.8 million under this program. No shares
    were repurchased in 2010.



Item 6.

Selected
    Financial Data.

The following table presents our summary consolidated financial
    data. We derived the following historical selected financial
    data from our audited consolidated financial statements. Our
    fiscal year is determined based on a 52- or 53-week convention
    ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Fiscal year
    2010 contained 52 weeks and fiscal year 2009 contained
    53 weeks while fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 each
    contained 52 weeks. In December 2010, we entered into an
    agreement to sell our general aviation piston engine businesses,
    which comprised the former Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment. We have restated prior year financial data to classify
    this segment as a discontinued operation. The five-year summary
    of selected financial data should be read in conjunction with
    the discussion under “Item 7 —
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation.”

Five-Year
    Summary of Selected Financial Data






(In millions, except per-share amounts)

Sales

$

1,644.2

$

1,652.1

$

1,722.0

$

1,441.6

$

1,251.6

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

120.5

$

113.3

$

111.3

$

98.5

$

80.3

Working capital

$

306.8

$

242.6

$

274.8

$

198.3

$

203.7

Total assets

$

1,557.8

$

1,421.5

$

1,534.5

$

1,159.4

$

1,061.4

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, net of current
    portion

$

265.3

$

251.6

$

332.1

$

142.4

$

230.7

Total equity

$

787.0

$

667.4

$

506.9

$

506.9

$

408.3

Basic earnings per common share — continuing operations

$

3.31

$

3.22

$

3.29

$

2.45

$

2.06

Diluted earnings per common share — continuing
    operations

$

3.25

$

3.17

$

3.20

$

2.36

$

1.99

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.33

$

3.15

$

3.14

$

2.82

$

2.34

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.27

$

3.10

$

3.05

$

2.72

$

2.26



Item 7.

Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated is a leading provider of
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems,
    instrumentation and communications products, including defense
    electronics, digital imaging products and software, monitoring
    and control instrumentation for marine, environmental and
    industrial applications, harsh environment interconnect
    products, data acquisition and communications equipment for air
    transport and business aircraft, and components and subsystems
    for wireless and satellite communications. We also provide
    engineered systems and information technology services for
    defense, space, environmental and nuclear applications, and
    supply energy generation, energy storage and small propulsion
    products.

We serve niche market segments where performance, precision and
    reliability are critical. Our customers include government
    agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy exploration and
    production companies, major industrial companies and airlines.

Strategy/Overview

Our strategy continues to emphasize growth in our core markets
    of instrumentation, digital imaging, aerospace and defense
    electronics and government engineered systems. Our core markets
    are characterized by high barriers to entry and include
    specialized products and services not likely to be commoditized.
    We intend to strengthen and expand our core businesses with
    targeted acquisitions. We aggressively pursue operational
    excellence to continually improve our margins and earnings. At
    Teledyne, operational excellence includes the rapid integration
    of the businesses we acquire. Over time, our goal is to create a
    set of businesses that are truly superior in their niches. We
    continue to evaluate our businesses to ensure that they are
    aligned with our strategy.

Consistent with this strategy, we made three acquisitions in
    2010 and in December 2010 we entered into an agreement to sell
    our general aviation piston engines businesses, which comprised
    the former Aerospace Engines and Components segment.
    Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements have been
    restated to classify the Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment as a discontinued operation. We expect the sale to close
    in the first quarter of 2011, pending satisfaction of final
    closing conditions.

In addition, for 2010, we realigned and changed the reporting
    structure of some of our businesses. Our former Electronics and
    Communications segment is now reported as three separate
    segments, Instrumentation, Digital Imaging and Aerospace and
    Defense Electronics. The businesses that comprised the Energy
    and Power Systems segment are now reported as part of the
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics and the Engineered Systems
    segments. The battery products business, with revenues of
    $15.5 million in 2010, is now part of the Aerospace and
    Defense Electronics segment, and the

on-site

gas
    and power generation systems and the turbine engine businesses,
    with combined revenues of $53.9 million in 2010, are now
    part of the Engineered Systems segment. We have restated our
    previously reported segment data to reflect this revised segment
    reporting structure and the classification of the former
    Aerospace Engines and Components segment as a discontinued
    operation.

In 2010, sales totaled $1,644.2 million, compared with
    sales of $1,652.1 million for 2009. Our 2010 net
    income totaled $120.5 million or a record $3.27 per diluted
    share, compared to $113.3 million or $3.10 per diluted
    share in 2009. Net income for 2010 excluding our discontinued
    operations was $119.9 million or $3.25 per diluted share,
    compared with $115.9 million or $3.17 per diluted share for
    2009. In 2010, a greater proportion of sales and operating
    profit were derived from sales of marine and environmental
    instrumentation products of our Instrumentation segment and from
    sales of our microwave devices and interconnect products of our
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. Our 2010 record
    earnings per share was achieved despite lower sales of missile
    defense engineering services, NASA programs, gas centrifuge
    modules and turbine engines related to the Joint

Air-to-Surface

Standoff Missile (“JASSM”) program of our Engineered
    Systems segment. In 2011, we expect our business mix to evolve
    further, including as a result of our recent acquisitions. We do
    not expect our Engineered Systems segment to experience a
    contraction similar to 2010.

In early 2011, we completed the acquisition of DALSA Corporation
    (“DALSA”). DALSA, a Canadian company, is a designer
    and manufacturer of digital imaging products as well as
    semiconductor wafers and components. Among other things, our
    combined digital imaging technologies should allow us to develop
    new infrared and visible light products for our respective
    markets and customers. With the recently completed acquisition
    of DALSA and subject to the divestiture of our general aviation
    piston engines businesses, we will be transformed into an
    electronics, digital imaging, instrumentation and engineering
    focused company.



In addition to the above events, on February 25, 2011, we
    replaced our $590.0 million credit facility that was set to
    expire in July 2011, with a $550.0 million credit facility.
    The new facility, together with the $250.0 million in
    Senior Notes issued in September 2010 and operating cash flow,
    will provide Teledyne with the ability to fund working capital
    needs, capital expenditures, voluntary pension contributions,
    debt service requirements and acquisitions for 2011. The
    anticipated proceeds from the expected sale of our general
    aviation piston engine businesses will initially be used to
    repay amounts outstanding under our $550.0 million credit
    facility.

Recent
    Acquisitions

The following summarizes the acquisitions we made during fiscal
    years 2010, 2009 and 2008. Other than the purchase of the assets
    of a marine sensor product line for $1.4 million and all of
    the remaining 14.1% minority interest in Ocean Design, Inc.
    (“ODI”) for $25.5 million, no other acquisitions
    were made in fiscal year 2009. See Note 3 to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
    about our recent acquisitions. See also Note 17 to our
    Consolidated Financial Statements for information about our
    fiscal year 2011 acquisition of DALSA.

Primary

Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Ownership

Location(s)

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(3)

(In millions)

Fiscal Year 2010

Optimum Optical Systems, Inc (“Optimum”)

June 7, 2010

100%

Camarillo, CA

$5.9 million for the

Stock

$

5.7

Designs and manufacturers custom optics and optomechanical
    assemblies

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2009

Intelek plc (“Intelek”)

July 26, 2010

100%

United Kingdom

£38 million for the

Stock

$

43.5

Designs and manufactures electronic systems for satellite and
    microwave communication and aerostructure manufacturing

and State College, PA

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2010

Hafmynd ehf., now known as Teledyne Gavia ehf
    (“Gavia”)

September 20, 2010

100%

Reykjavik,

532.4 million

Stock

$

10.8

Designs and
manufactures the
Gavia

tm

autonomous

Iceland

Icelandic króna for the

underwater vehicle (AUV)

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2009

Fiscal Year 2008

Impulse Enterprise (“Impulse”)

December 31, 2007

100%

San Diego, CA

$16.8 million for its

Asset

$

35.0

Manufactures underwater electrical interconnection systems for
    harsh environments.

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Storm Products Co. (“Storm”)

December 31, 2007

100%

Dallas, TX

$45.7 million for its

Stock

47.7

Supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable assemblies
    to a number of markets, including energy exploration,
    environmental monitoring and industrial equipment. Also provides
    coax microwave cable and interconnect products primarily to
    defense customers for radar, electronic warfare and
    communications applications.

Woodridge, IL

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

SG Brown Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary TSS
    International Limited (“TSS”)

January 31, 2008

100%

Watford, United Kingdom

£12.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

Stock

54.8

Designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection systems for
    offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

March 31, 2007

Judson Technologies, LLC (“Judson”)

February 1, 2008

100%

Montgomeryville,

$13.8 million for its

Asset

27.0

Manufactures high performance infrared detectors utilizing a
    wide variety of materials such as Mercury Cadmium Telluride
    (HgCdTe), Indium Antimonide (InSb), and Indium Gallium Arsenide
    (InGaAs), as well as tactical dewar and cooler assemblies and
    other specialized standard products for military, space,
    industrial and scientific applications.

PA

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Webb Research Corp. (“Webb”)

July 7, 2008

100%

East Falmouth,

$12.2 million for its

Asset

24.3

Manufacturer of autonomous underwater gliding vehicles and
    autonomous profiling drifters and floats.

MA

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Defense business of Filtronic PLC (“Filtronic”)

August 15, 2008

100%

Shipley, United

£14.5 million for its

Stock

24.1

Provides customized microwave subassemblies and integrated
    subsystems to the global defense industry.

Kingdom

fiscal year ended

May 31, 2008

Cormon Limited and Cormon Technology Limited
    (“Cormon”)

October 16, 2008

100%

Lancing, United

Kingdom

£6.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

Stock

20.9

Designs and manufactures subsea and surface sand and corrosion
    sensors, as well as flow integrity monitoring systems, used in
    oil and gas production systems.

March 31, 2008



Primary

Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Ownership

Location(s)

Sales Volume

Type

Price (2)(3)

(In millions)

Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. (“Odom”)

December 19, 2008

100%

Baton Rouge, LA

$10.9 million for its

Stock

7.0

Designs and manufactures hydrographic survey instrumentation
    used in port survey, dredging, offshore energy and other
    applications.

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2008

Demo Systems LLC (“Demo”)

December 24, 2008

100%

Moorpark, CA

$7.3 million for its

Asset

5.3

Designs and manufactures aircraft data loading equipment, flight
    line maintenance terminals, and data distribution software used
    by commercial airlines, the U.S. military and aircraft
    manufacturers.

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Financial
    Highlights

Our fiscal year is determined based on a 52- or 53-week
    convention ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31.
    Fiscal year 2010 contained 52 weeks, fiscal year 2009
    contained 53 weeks and fiscal year 2008



contained 52 weeks. The following is our financial
    information for 2010, 2009 and 2008 (in millions, except
    per-share amounts):




Sales

$

1,644.2

$

1,652.1

$

1,722.0

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,148.1

1,177.3

1,205.9

Selling, general and administrative expenses

317.6

303.4

317.5

Total costs and expenses

1,465.7

1,480.7

1,523.4

Income before other income and expense and income taxes

178.5

171.4

198.6

Interest and debt expense, net

(6.5

)

(4.8

)

(10.9

)

Other income (expense), net

1.6

(0.2

)

0.3

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

173.6

166.4

188.0

Provision for income taxes(a)

53.6

50.0

69.1

Net income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
    interest

120.0

116.4

118.9

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes

0.6

(2.6

)

(5.3

)

Net income before noncontrolling interest

120.6

113.8

113.6

Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.1

)

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

120.5

$

113.3

$

111.3

Net income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
    interest

$

120.0

$

116.4

$

118.9

Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.1

)

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

Net income from continuing operations

119.9

115.9

116.6

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income
    taxes

0.6

(2.6

)

(5.3

)

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

120.5

$

113.3

$

111.3

Basic earnings per common share

- Continuing operations

$

3.31

$

3.22

$

3.29

- Discontinued operations

0.02

(0.07

)

(0.15

)

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.33

$

3.15

$

3.14

Diluted earnings per common share

- Continuing operations

$

3.25

$

3.17

$

3.20

- Discontinued operations

0.02

(0.07

)

(0.15

)

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.27

$

3.10

$

3.05

(a)

Fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 include net tax credits of
    $12.5 million, $15.0 million and $3.3 million,
    respectively, primarily from research and development tax
    credits.

Our businesses are divided into four business segments; namely,
    Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics and Engineered Systems. Our four business segments
    and their respective contributions to our total sales in 2010,
    2009 and 2008 are summarized in the following table:

Percentage of Sales

Segment




Instrumentation


%


%


%

Digital Imaging


%


%


%

Aerospace and Defense Electronics


%


%


%

Engineered Systems


%


%


%


%


%


%



Results
    of Operations

    Compared with 2009

%

Sales



Change

(In millions)

Instrumentation

$

573.2

$

538.4

6.5

%

Digital Imaging

122.5

127.3

(3.8

)%

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

614.7

579.2

6.1

%

Engineered Systems

333.8

407.2

(18.0

)%

Total sales

$

1,644.2

$

1,652.1

(0.5

)%

%

Operating Profit and Other Segment Income



Change

(In millions)

Instrumentation

$

113.9

$

95.5

19.3

%

Digital Imaging

5.2

11.8

(55.9

)%

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

57.8

60.1

(3.8

)%

Engineered Systems

30.4

31.3

(2.9

)%

Segment operating profit and other segment income

207.3

198.7

4.3

%

Corporate expense

(28.8

)

(27.3

)

5.5

%

Interest and debt expense, net

(6.5

)

(4.8

)

35.4

%

Other income (expense), net

1.6

(0.2

)

*

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

173.6

166.4

4.3

%

Provision for income taxes(a)

53.6

50.0

7.2

%

Net income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
    interest

120.0

116.4

3.1

%

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes

0.6

(2.6

)

*

Net income before noncontrolling interest

120.6

113.8

6.0

%

Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.1

)

(0.5

)

*

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

120.5

$

113.3

6.4

%

*

not meaningful

(a)

Fiscal years 2010 and 2009 include net tax credits of
    $12.5 million and $15.0 million, respectively,
    primarily from research and development tax credits.

We reported 2010 sales of $1,644.2 million, compared with
    sales of $1,652.1 million for 2009, a slight decrease of
    0.5%. Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies was
    $120.5 million ($3.27 per diluted share) for 2010, compared
    with $113.3 million ($3.10 per diluted share) for 2009, an
    increase of 6.4%. Net income attributable to Teledyne
    Technologies excluding discontinued operations was
    $119.9 million ($3.25 per diluted share) for 2010, compared
    with $115.9 million ($3.17 per diluted share) for 2009, an
    increase of 3.4%.

The decrease in sales in 2010, compared with 2009, reflected
    lower sales in the Engineered Systems segment and the Digital
    Imaging segment, partially offset by higher sales in both the
    Instrumentation segment and in the Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics segment. The decrease in the Engineered Systems
    segment reflected lower sales of missile defense engineering
    services, lower sales from NASA programs, lower sales of gas
    centrifuge service modules and lower sales related to the Joint

Air-to-Surface

Standoff Missile (“JASSM”) turbine engine program
    partially offset by sales of $6.3 million from a recent
    acquisition. Sales in the Instrumentation segment reflected
    higher sales of marine and environmental instrumentation
    products. Sales in the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment
    reflected higher sales of microwave devices and interconnects,



and included sales of $15.9 million from recent
    acquisitions. The incremental increase in revenue in 2010 from
    businesses acquired since 2009 (see “Recent
    Acquisitions” table) was $25.3 million.

The increase in segment operating profit and other segment
    income for 2010, compared with 2009, reflected higher operating
    profit in the Instrumentation segment, partially offset by lower
    operating profit in the Aerospace and Defense Electronics
    segment, the Engineered Systems segment and the Digital Imaging
    segment. The increase in operating profit in the Instrumentation
    segment was in line with higher sales. The decrease in operating
    profit in the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment
    reflected charges of $8.2 million, primarily to correct
    inventory valuations incorrectly recorded in previous periods at
    a business unit, partially offset by the impact of higher sales.
    The decrease in operating profit in the Engineered Systems
    segment reflected the impact of lower sales, partially offset by
    lower pension expense and higher margins. Operating profit
    included an incremental operating loss from our 2010
    acquisitions of $5.1 million, which included acquisition
    expenses of $5.5 million and intangible amortization of
    $1.5 million.

Cost of sales in total dollars was lower in 2010, compared with
    2009, and reflected the impact of lower pension expense and cost
    reductions, partially offset by the $8.2 million charge to
    correct inventory valuations. Cost of sales in 2010 included
    $0.8 million in LIFO expense, compared with
    $2.2 million of LIFO income in 2009. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2010 was 69.8%, compared with 71.3% for
    2009. The lower cost of sales percentage reflected the impact of
    cost reductions, product mix and lower pension expense,
    partially offset by the impact of the $8.2 million
    inventory write-down.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were higher in 2010 compared with 2009. The $14.2 million
    increase was primarily due to higher general and administrative
    expense. The higher general and administrative expense included
    $6.7 million in acquisition and disposition related
    expenses, as well as $1.5 million in intangible asset
    amortization for recent acquisitions. Corporate administrative
    expense in 2010 was higher by $1.5 million compared with
    2009 and reflected higher employee compensation expenses. For
    2010, we recorded a total of $4.7 million in stock option
    expense, of which $1.7 million was recorded as corporate
    expense and $3.0 million was recorded in segment results.
    For 2009, we recorded a total of $5.2 million in stock
    option expense, of which $1.8 million was recorded as
    corporate expense and $3.4 million was recorded in segment
    results. Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2010,
    as a percentage of sales, increased to 19.3%, compared with
    18.4% for 2009 and reflected the impact of acquisition related
    expenses.

Included in operating profit in 2010 was domestic pension
    expense of $4.8 million, of which $9.6 million was
    recoverable in accordance with U.S. Government Cost
    Accounting Standards (“CAS”) from certain government
    contracts. Included in operating profit in 2009 was domestic
    pension expense of $21.4 million, of which
    $12.4 million was recoverable in accordance with CAS.
    Pension expense determined under CAS can generally be recovered
    through the pricing of products and services sold to the
    U.S. Government. These amounts do not include pension
    expense of $0.4 million in 2010 and $1.1 million in
    2009 now included as part of discontinued operations. In
    addition to the above amounts, the Company recorded
    $0.1 million in pension expense for 2010 related to the
    foreign pension plan acquired as part of the Intelek acquisition.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2010 was 30.9%,
    compared with 30.0% for 2009. Fiscal years 2010 and 2009
    included net tax credits of $12.5 million and
    $15.0 million, respectively, primarily research and
    development tax credits. Excluding the net tax credits, the
    effective tax rates for 2010 and 2009, would have been 38.1% and
    39.1%, respectively.

During the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that
    tax audit resolutions and expirations of the statutes of
    limitations could reduce unrecognized tax benefits by
    $2.4 million, either because our tax positions are
    sustained on audit, because the Company agrees to their
    disallowance, or because of the expiration of the statutes of
    limitations.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 44% of sales in 2010 and 47% of sales in 2009.
    Sales to international customers represented approximately 29%
    of sales in 2010 and 26% of sales in 2009.



Total interest expense, including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges, was $6.9 million in 2010 and
    $5.1 million in 2009. Interest income was $0.4 million
    in 2010 and $0.3 million in 2009. The increase in interest
    expense in 2010 primarily reflected higher average interest
    rates, partially offset by lower outstanding debt levels.

Noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries’ earnings reflects
    the minority ownership interest in ODI in 2009 and Teledyne
    Energy Systems, Inc. in both 2010 and 2009. The lower amount in
    2010 primarily reflects the decrease in minority ownership
    interest in ODI due to share purchases by Teledyne in 2009. In
    2009, Teledyne purchased the remaining minority interest in ODI.

Other income and expense in 2010 and 2009 included sublease
    rental income and royalty income and deferred compensation
    expense. Other income in 2010 also includes an insurance benefit
    of $0.7 million.

    Compared with 2008

%

Sales



Change

(In millions)

Instrumentation

$

538.4

$

549.2

(2.0

)%

Digital Imaging

127.3

137.4

(7.4

)%

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

579.2

604.1

(4.1

)%

Engineered Systems

407.2

431.3

(5.6

)%

Total sales

$

1,652.1

$

1,722.0

(4.1

)%

%

Operating Profit and Other Segment Income



Change

(In millions)

Instrumentation

$

95.5

$

102.9

(7.2

)%

Digital Imaging

11.8

14.6

(19.2

)%

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

60.1

68.7

(12.5

)%

Engineered Systems

31.3

42.0

(25.5

)%

Segment operating profit and other segment income

198.7

228.2

(12.9

)%

Corporate expense

(27.3

)

(29.6

)

(7.8

)%

Interest and debt expense, net

(4.8

)

(10.9

)

(56.0

)%

Other income (expense), net

(0.2

)

0.3

*

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

166.4

188.0

(11.5

)%

Provision for income taxes(a)

50.0

69.1

(27.6

)%

Net income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
    interest

116.4

118.9

(2.1

)%

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes

(2.6

)

(5.3

)

(50.9

)%

Net income before noncontrolling interest

113.8

113.6

0.2

%

Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

(78.3

)%

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

113.3

$

111.3

1.8

%

*

not meaningful

(a)

Fiscal years 2009 and 2008 include net tax credits of
    $15.0 million and $3.3 million, respectively,
    primarily from research and development tax credits.

We reported 2009 sales of $1,652.1 million, compared with
    sales of $1,722.0 million for 2008, a decrease of 4.1%. Net
    income attributable to Teledyne Technologies was
    $113.3 million ($3.10 per diluted share) for 2009, compared
    with $111.3 million ($3.05 per diluted share) for 2008, an
    increase of 1.8%. Net income attributable to Teledyne
    Technologies excluding discontinued operations was
    $115.9 million ($3.17 per diluted share) for 2009, compared
    with $116.6 million ($3.20 per diluted share) for 2008, a
    decrease of 0.6%.

The decrease in sales in 2009, compared with 2008, reflected
    lower sales in each segment due to the general economic downturn
    in 2009. Sales in both the Instrumentation segment and in the
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment included the impact of
    acquisitions made in fiscal 2008. The incremental increase in
    revenue in 2009 from businesses acquired since 2008 (see
    “Recent Acquisitions” table) in the



Instrumentation segment and in the Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics segment was $24.2 million and
    $16.1 million, respectively.

Operating profit and other segment income was lower in each
    segment. The decrease in segment operating profit and other
    segment income for 2009, compared with 2008, reflected the
    impact of lower sales due to the general economic downturn in
    2009. Operating profit in both the Instrumentation segment and
    in the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment included
    incremental operating profit from acquisitions and related
    synergies of $1.2 million and $0.1 million,
    respectively.

Cost of sales in total dollars was lower in 2009, compared with
    2008, primarily due to lower sales. Cost of sales in 2009
    included $2.2 million in LIFO income, compared with
    $0.1 million in LIFO expense in 2008. Cost of sales as a
    percentage of sales for 2009 was 71.3%, compared with 70.0% for
    2008. The higher cost of sales percentage reflected the impact
    of lower sales and increased pension expense, partially offset
    by cost reductions made throughout the year.

Selling, general and administrative expenses, including research
    and development and bid and proposal expense, in total dollars
    were lower in 2009 compared with 2008. This $14.1 million
    decrease was primarily due to lower sales, lower acquired
    intangible asset amortization of $3.5 million, lower
    corporate administrative expense and lower stock option expense.
    Corporate administrative expense in 2009 was lower by
    $2.3 million compared with 2008 and reflected reduced
    employee compensation and professional fee expenses. For 2009,
    we recorded a total of $5.2 million in stock option
    expense, of which $1.8 million was recorded as corporate
    expense and $3.4 million was recorded in segment results.
    For 2008, we recorded a total of $7.2 million in stock
    option expense, of which $2.5 million was recorded as
    corporate expense and $4.7 million was recorded in segment
    results. Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2009,
    as a percentage of sales, were 18.4% for both 2009 and 2008.

Included in operating profit in 2009 was pension expense of
    $21.4 million, of which $12.4 million was recoverable
    in accordance with CAS from certain government contracts.
    Included in operating profit in 2008 was pension expense of
    $9.0 million, of which $9.8 million was recoverable in
    accordance with CAS. Pension expense determined under CAS can
    generally be recovered through the pricing of products and
    services sold to the U.S. Government. These amounts do not
    include pension expense of $1.1 million in 2009 and
    $0.6 million in 2008 now included as part of discontinued
    operations.

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2009 was 30.0%,
    compared with 36.8% for 2008. Fiscal years 2009 and 2008
    included net tax credits of $15.0 million and
    $3.3 million, respectively, primarily research and
    development tax credits. Excluding the net tax credits, the
    effective tax rates for 2009 and 2008, would have been 39.1% and
    38.5%, respectively.

Sales under contracts with the U.S. Government were
    approximately 47% of sales in 2009 and 44% of sales in 2008.
    Sales to international customers represented approximately 26%
    of sales in 2009 and 24% of sales in 2008.

Total interest expense, including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges, was $5.1 million in 2009 and
    $11.7 million in 2008. Interest income was
    $0.3 million in 2009 and $0.8 million in 2008. The
    decrease in interest expense in 2009 primarily reflected lower
    average interest rates.

Noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries’ earnings reflects
    the minority ownership interest in ODI and Teledyne Energy
    Systems, Inc. The lower amount in 2009 primarily reflects the
    decrease in minority ownership interest in ODI due to share
    purchases by Teledyne in 2009. In 2009, Teledyne purchased the
    remaining minority interest in ODI.

Other income and expense in 2009 and 2008 included sublease
    rental income and royalty income and deferred compensation
    expense.



Segments

The following discussion of our four segments should be read in
    conjunction with Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements. Such discussion also reflects the
    classification of our former Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment as a discontinued operation.

Instrumentation




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

573.2

$

538.4

$

549.2

Operating profit

$

113.9

$

95.5

$

102.9

Operating profit % of sales

19.9

%

17.7

%

18.7

%

International sales % of sales

52.3

%

52.1

%

45.6

%

Governmental sales % of sales

6.2

%

6.8

%

4.5

%

Capital expenditures

$

6.4

$

16.1

$

12.5

Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control
    instrumentation for marine, environmental, scientific,
    industrial and defense applications and harsh environment
    interconnect products.

    compared with 2009

Our Instrumentation segment sales were $573.2 million in
    2010, compared with sales of $538.4 million in 2009, an
    increase of 6.5%. Operating profit was $113.9 million in
    2010, compared with $95.5 million in 2009, an increase of
    19.3%.

The 2010 sales increase resulted primarily from higher sales of
    marine and environmental instrumentation products. The higher
    sales of $18.3 million for marine instrumentation included
    improved sales of geophysical sensors for the energy exploration
    market. The higher sales of $16.5 million for environmental
    instrumentation reflected improved sales for most product
    offerings. The increase in operating profit reflected the impact
    of higher sales, cost reductions, lower pension expense and
    product mix differences. Operating profit included pension
    expense of $1.3 million for 2010, compared with
    $1.0 million for 2009.

Segment operating profit included $1.0 million of stock
    option compensation expense in 2010 compared with
    $1.1 million of stock option compensation expense in 2009.
    Segment operating profit in 2010 also reflected LIFO expense of
    $0.2 million compared with LIFO income of $0.5 million
    in 2009.

    compared with 2008

Our Instrumentation segment sales were $538.4 million in
    2009, compared with sales of $549.2 million in 2008, a
    decrease of 2.0%. Operating profit was $95.5 million in
    2009, compared with $102.9 million in 2008, a decrease of
    7.2%.

The 2009 sales decrease resulted primarily from lower organic
    sales, partially offset by acquisitions. The lower sales of
    $25.0 million for environmental instrumentation reflected
    reduced sales across most product offerings. The higher sales of
    $14.2 million for marine instrumentation reflected the
    incremental revenue from acquisitions, partially offset by
    reduced sales of geophysical sensors for the marine exploration
    market. The incremental increase in revenue from acquisitions
    for 2009, compared with 2008, was $24.2 million. In 2009,
    operating profit, including synergies, included
    $1.2 million due to the incremental impact of acquisitions
    acquired since the end of fiscal year 2007.

Segment operating profit was negatively impacted by the decrease
    in revenue and higher pension expense. Pension expense was
    $1.0 million in 2009, compared with $0.6 million in
    2008. Segment operating profit included $1.1 million of
    stock option compensation expense in 2009 compared with
    $1.5 million of stock option compensation expense in 2008.
    Segment operating profit in 2009 also reflected LIFO income of
    $0.5 million compared LIFO expense of $0.2 million in
    2008.



Digital
    Imaging




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

122.5

$

127.3

$

137.4

Operating profit

$

5.2

$

11.8

$

14.6

Operating profit % of sales

4.2

%

9.3

%

10.6

%

International sales % of sales

7.1

%

4.9

%

7.9

%

Governmental sales % of sales

76.2

%

75.9

%

65.5

%

Capital expenditures

$

11.3

$

5.7

$

7.1

Our Digital Imaging segment includes our sponsored and
    centralized research businesses for a range of new technologies
    benefiting government programs and our businesses, as well as
    major development and production efforts for innovative digital
    imaging products for government and space applications. It also
    includes infrared detectors, cameras and optomechanical
    assemblies.

    compared with 2009

Our Digital Imaging segment sales were $122.5 million in
    2010, compared with sales of $127.3 million in 2009, a
    decrease of 3.8%. Operating profit was $5.2 million in
    2010, compared with $11.8 million in 2009, a decrease of
    55.9%.

The 2010 sales decrease reflected lower licensing sales and
    lower government subcontract sales, partially offset by
    $2.9 million in sales from the Optimum acquisition. The
    decrease in operating profit reflected the impact of lower
    sales, as well as, acquisition expenses of $1.5 million
    related to the 2011 DALSA acquisition.

    compared with 2008

Our Digital Imaging segment sales were $127.3 million in
    2009, compared with sales of $137.4 million in 2008, a
    decrease of 7.4%. Operating profit was $11.8 million in
    2009, compared with $14.6 million in 2008, a decrease of
    19.2%.

The 2009 sales decrease resulted primarily from lower sales of
    contract research and development work. The decrease in
    operating profit reflected the impact of lower sales, as well as
    product mix.

Aerospace
    and Defense Electronics




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

614.7

$

579.2

$

604.1

Operating profit

$

57.8

$

60.1

$

68.7

Operating profit % of sales

9.4

%

10.4

%

11.4

%

International sales % of sales

22.3

%

21.7

%

21.3

%

Governmental sales % of sales

49.2

%

49.5

%

44.9

%

Capital expenditures

$

9.7

$

8.4

$

14.5

Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides
    sophisticated electronic components and subsystems and
    communications products, including defense electronics, data
    acquisition and communications equipment for air transport and
    business aircraft, and components and subsystems for wireless
    and satellite communications, as well as general aviation
    batteries.

    compared with 2009

Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment sales were
    $614.7 million in 2010, compared with sales of
    $579.2 million in 2009, an increase of 6.1%. Operating
    profit was $57.8 million in 2010, compared with
    $60.1 million in 2009, a decrease of 3.8%.



The 2010 sales increase of $35.5 million resulted primarily
    from higher sales of microwave devices and interconnects, as
    well as increased sales of avionics and electronic relays,
    partially offset by reduced manufacturing services in defense
    electronics. The increased sales also included sales of
    $15.9 million from recent acquisitions. Commercial
    aerospace sales increased slightly. The decrease in operating
    profit reflected the charges of $8.2 million, primarily to
    correct inventory valuations incorrectly recorded in previous
    periods at a business unit and acquisition related charges of
    $3.8 million, partially offset by higher sales, cost
    reductions, lower pension expense and product mix. The
    incremental operating loss included in the results for 2010 from
    businesses acquired in 2010 was $3.6 million and included
    charges of $3.8 million, related to acquisition activity,
    as well as, intangible asset amortization. Operating profit
    included pension expense of $1.7 million for 2010, compared
    with $8.2 million for 2009. Pension expense allocated to
    contracts pursuant to CAS was $2.5 million for 2010,
    compared with $2.4 million for 2009.

Segment operating profit included $1.1 million of stock
    option compensation expense in 2010 compared with
    $1.2 million of stock option compensation expense in 2009.
    Segment operating profit in 2010 also reflected LIFO expense of
    $0.4 million compared with LIFO income of $1.7 million
    in 2009.

    compared with 2008

Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment sales were
    $579.2 million in 2009, compared with sales of
    $604.1 million in 2008, a decrease of 4.1%. Operating
    profit was $60.1 million in 2009, compared with
    $68.7 million in 2008, a decrease of 12.5%.

The 2009 sales decrease of $24.9 million primarily
    reflected lower sales of avionics, electronic relays and
    microwave products, partially offset by $16.1 million in
    revenue from acquisitions. Sales of interconnect systems also
    decreased slightly. In 2009, operating profit, including
    synergies, included $0.1 million due to the incremental
    impact of acquisitions. Segment operating profit was negatively
    impacted by the decrease in revenue and higher pension expense.
    Pension expense was $8.2 million in 2009, compared with
    $2.9 million in 2008. Pension expense allocated to
    contracts pursuant to CAS was $2.4 million in 2009,
    compared with $1.9 million for 2008.

Segment operating profit included $1.2 million of stock
    option compensation expense in 2009 compared with
    $1.7 million of stock option compensation expense in 2008.
    Segment operating profit in 2009 also reflected LIFO income of
    $1.7 million compared with LIFO income of $0.7 million
    in 2008.

Engineered
    Systems




(Dollars in millions)

Sales

$

333.8

$

407.2

$

431.3

Operating profit

$

30.4

$

31.3

$

42.0

Operating profit % of sales

9.1

%

7.7

%

9.7

%

International sales % of sales

7.6

%

3.8

%

6.8

%

Governmental sales % of sales

88.7

%

87.9

%

85.4

%

Capital expenditures

$

3.6

$

3.4

$

4.0

Our Engineered Systems segment, principally through Teledyne
    Brown Engineering, Inc., provides innovative systems engineering
    and integration, advanced technology application, software
    development, and manufacturing solutions to space, military,
    environmental, energy, chemical, biological and nuclear systems
    and missile defense requirements. This segment also designs and
    manufactures hydrogen gas generators, thermoelectric and
    fuel-cell based power sources and small turbine engines.



    compared with 2009

Our Engineered Systems segment sales were $333.8 million in
    2010, compared with sales of $407.2 million in 2009, a
    decrease of 18.0%. Operating profit was $30.4 million in
    2010, compared with $31.3 million in 2009, a decrease of
    2.9%.

Sales for 2010, compared with 2009, primarily reflected lower
    revenue from engineered products and services, as well as
    turbine engine programs. Sales of engineered products and
    services declined $67.0 million as a result of lower sales
    of missile defense engineering services, NASA programs and gas
    centrifuge service modules, partially offset by
    $6.3 million in sales from the acquisition of the CML
    division of Intelek. The revenue decline of $11.5 million
    in turbine engine programs reflected lower sales of turbine
    engines for the JASSM program. Fiscal year 2010 included higher
    sales of $5.1 million of commercial and government energy
    systems. Operating profit for 2010 reflected the impact of lower
    revenue and disposition related costs of $1.2 million
    related to the reduction of organizational conflict of interest
    business activity, partially offset by lower pension expense and
    higher margins related to the JASSM program.

Segment operating profit included pension expense of
    $1.6 million in 2010, compared with $12.0 million in
    2009. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $7.1 million in 2010, compared with $10.0 million in
    2009.

In 2011, we do not expect our Engineered Systems segment to
    experience a contraction similar to 2010. While missile defense
    engineering services and NASA programs are expected to decline,
    sales of gas centrifuge service modules, JASSM turbine engines
    and other manufacturing programs are expected to increase.

    compared with 2008

Our Engineered Systems segment sales were $407.2 million in
    2009, compared with sales of $431.3 million in 2008, a
    decrease of 5.6%. Operating profit was $31.3 million in
    2009, compared with $42.0 million in 2008, a decrease of
    25.5%.

Sales for 2009, compared with 2008, primarily reflected lower
    revenue from engineered products and services as well as reduced
    sales of energy systems. Sales of engineered products and
    services declined $14.3 million primarily as a result of
    lower sales from missile defense engineering services and NASA
    programs. The revenue decline of $6.5 million for energy
    systems reflected lower commercial hydrogen generators,
    partially offset by increased sales of power systems for
    government applications. The revenue decline of
    $3.3 million related to turbine engines, reflected lower
    research and development sales. Operating profit for 2009
    reflected the impact of lower revenue and higher pension expense.

Segment operating profit included pension expense of
    $12.0 million in 2009, compared with $5.3 million in
    2008. Pension expense allocated to contracts pursuant to CAS was
    $10.0 million in 2009, compared with $7.9 million in
    2008. Operating profit in 2009 reflected a $1.0 million
    product replacement reserve for commercial hydrogen generators.
    Operating profit in 2008 was favorably impacted by
    $1.3 million for environmental reserves no longer needed
    due to a final settlement.

Financial
    Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources

Principal
    Capital Requirements

Our principal capital requirements are to fund working capital
    needs, capital expenditures, voluntary and required pension
    contributions, debt service requirements and acquisitions,
    including the acquisition of DALSA. It is anticipated that
    operating cash flow, together with available borrowings under
    the credit facility described below, will be sufficient to meet
    these requirements and could be used to fund some acquisitions
    in the year 2011. To support acquisitions, we may need to raise
    additional capital. Our liquidity is not dependent upon the use
    of off-balance sheet financial arrangements. We have no
    off-balance sheet financing arrangements that incorporate the
    use of special purpose entities or unconsolidated entities.



Revolving
    Credit Agreement and Senior Notes

Teledyne’s amended and restated credit facility had lender
    commitments totaling $590.0 million and was set to expire
    on July 14, 2011. Excluding interest and fees, no payments
    were due under the amended and restated credit facility until it
    matured. On February 25, 2011, we refinanced the
    $590.0 million credit facility by terminating the facility
    and entering into a new facility that has lender commitments
    totaling $550.0 million. The new facility has a termination
    date of February 25, 2016. As of February 25, 2011, we
    had $273.0 million outstanding on the new facility. The new
    facility requires the Company to comply with various financial
    and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios. Excluding
    interest and fees, no payments are due under the
    $550.0 million facility until it matures. Borrowings under
    our credit facility are at variable rates which are, at our
    option, tied to a Eurocurrency rate equal to LIBOR (London
    Interbank Offered Rate) plus an applicable rate or a base rate
    as defined in our credit agreement. Eurocurrency rate loans may
    be denominated in U.S. dollars or an alternative currency as
    defined in the agreement. Eurocurrency or LIBOR based loans
    under the facility typically have terms of one, two, three or
    six months and the interest rate for each such loan is subject
    to change if the loan is continued or converted following the
    applicable maturity date. Base rate loans have interest rates
    that primarily fluctuate with changes in the prime rate.
    Interest rates are also subject to change based on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as defined in the credit agreement.
    The credit agreement also provides for facility fees that vary
    between 0.20% and 0.45% of the credit line, depending on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as calculated from time to time.

On September 15, 2010, taking advantage of favorable
    long-term borrowing rates, the Company issued
    $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of private
    placement Senior Notes at par. The notes consist of
    $75.0 million of 4.04% Senior Notes due
    September 15, 2015, $100.0 million of
    4.74% Senior Notes due September 15, 2017 and
    $75.0 million of 5.30% Senior Notes due
    September 15, 2020. The interest rates for the notes were
    determined on April 14, 2010. The Company used the proceeds
    of the private placement Senior Notes to pay down amounts
    outstanding under the Company’s then existing
    $590.0 million credit facility.

The credit agreements require the Company to comply with various
    financial and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
    minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. At
    January 2, 2011, the Company was in compliance with these
    covenants and we had a significant amount of margin between
    required financial covenant ratios and our actual ratios.
    Currently, we do not believe our ability to undertake additional
    debt financing, if needed, is reasonably likely to be materially
    impacted by debt restrictions under our credit agreements
    subject to our complying with required financial covenants
    listed in the table below. At January 2, 2011, the required
    financial covenant ratios and the actual ratios were as follows:

$590.0 million
    Credit Facility expires July 2011 — Terminated
    February 25, 2011

Financial Covenant

Required Covenant

Actual Covenant

Consolidated Net Worth(1)

No less than $459.5M

$787.0M

Consolidated Leverage Ratio (Debt/EBITDA)(2)

No more than 3.0 to 1

1.2 to 1

Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio(EBIT/Interest)(3)

No less than 3.0 to 1

28.7 to 1

$250.0 million
    Private Placement Notes due 2015, 2017 and 2020

Financial Covenant

Required Covenant

Actual Covenant

Consolidated Leverage Ratio (Net Debt/EBITDA)(4)

No more than 3.25 to 1

0.9 to 1

Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio(EBITDA/Interest)(5)

No less than 3.0 to 1

36.7 to 1



$550.0 million
    Credit Facility expires February 2016 (if it had been in
    effect)

Financial Covenant

Required Covenant

Actual Covenant

Consolidated Leverage Ratio (Net Debt/EBITDA)(4)

No more than 3.25 to 1

1.0 to 1

Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio(EBITDA/Interest)(5)

No less than 3.0 to 1

36.7 to 1

Available capacity under the, now terminated,
    $590.0 million credit facility was $589.3 million at
    January 2, 2011. The maximum amount that could be borrowed
    under our credit facility as of January 2, 2011 while still
    remaining in compliance with our consolidated leverage ratio
    covenant was $423.2 million.

In the first and second quarters of 2010, Teledyne entered into
    cash flow hedges of forecasted interest payments associated with
    the then anticipated issuance of fixed rate debt. The objective
    of these cash flow hedges was to protect against the risk of
    changes in the interest payments attributable to changes in the
    designated benchmark, which is the LIBOR interest rate leading
    up to the fixed rate on the anticipated issuance of fixed rate
    debt being locked. The notional amount of the debt hedged was
    $150.0 million. In the second quarter, concurrent with the
    interest rates being determined on the fixed rate debt, Teledyne
    terminated the cash flow hedges for a total payment of
    $0.6 million. Since the cash flow hedges were considered
    effective, changes in the fair value of the hedge contract as of
    the termination date were deferred in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss. Amounts deferred in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss will be reclassified to interest expense over
    the same period of time that interest expense is recognized on
    the borrowings beginning September 15, 2010. As of
    January 2, 2011, the remaining unamortized loss of
    $0.6 million was included in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss in the stockholders’ equity section of
    the balance sheet.

Contractual
    Obligations

The following table summarizes our expected cash outflows
    resulting from financial contracts and commitments at
    January 2, 2011. We have not included information on our
    normal recurring purchases of



materials for use in our operations. These amounts are generally
    consistent from year to year, closely reflect our levels of
    production, and are not long-term in nature (in millions):

2016 and






beyond

Total

Long-term debt obligations

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

75.0

$

175.0

$

250.0

Interest expense(a)

11.7

11.7

11.7

11.7

11.0

31.2

89.0

Operating lease obligations

15.0

14.7

12.6

11.5

9.5

22.7

86.0

Capital lease obligations(b)

2.4

2.2

2.1

2.0

2.0

11.8

22.5

Purchase obligations(c)

61.4

4.3

0.9

0.1

—

0.2

66.9

Total

$

90.5

$

32.9

$

27.3

$

25.3

$

97.5

$

240.9

$

514.4

At January 2, 2011, we are not required to make any cash
    contributions to the domestic qualified pension plan for 2011.
    Teledyne expects to make a voluntary pretax contribution to its
    domestic qualified pension plan of approximately
    $37.0 million in the first quarter of 2011 and expects to
    make an additional $32.0 million pretax contribution
    provided the sale of the former Aerospace Engines and Components
    segment is completed. Teledyne has no required or scheduled
    contributions to its foreign pension plan for 2011. Based on
    current assumptions and expected contributions to be made in
    2011, we would not have a minimum qualified pension plan funding
    requirement, as set forth by ERISA, in 2012. Our minimum funding
    requirements after 2010 are dependent on several factors as
    discussed under “Accounting for Pension Plans” in the
    Critical Accounting Policies section of this Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation. Estimates beyond 2011 have not been provided due to
    the significant uncertainty of these amounts, which are subject
    to change until the Company’s pension assumptions can be
    updated at the appropriate times. In addition, certain pension
    contributions are eligible for future recovery through the
    pricing of products and services to the U.S. government
    under certain government contracts, therefore, the amounts noted
    are not necessarily indicative of the impact these contributions
    may have on our liquidity. We also have payments due under our
    other postretirement benefits plans. These plans are not
    required to be funded in advance, but are pay as you go. See
    further discussion in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Operating
    Activities

In 2010, net cash provided by operating activities from
    continuing operations was $127.1 million, compared with
    $160.4 million in 2009 and $120.2 million in 2008.

The lower net cash provided for 2010, compared with 2009,
    reflected higher income tax payments of $49.2 million,
    higher deferred accounts receivable and higher accounts
    receivable due to timing of sales, partially offset by lower
    pretax pension contributions of $71.9 million.

The higher net cash provided for 2009, compared with 2008,
    reflected lower income tax payments of $34.2 million, the
    incremental cash contribution from acquisitions made in 2008 and
    improved working capital management, partially offset by higher
    pretax pension contributions of $58.3 million.



Free cash flow (cash from operating activities from continuing
    operations less capital expenditures) was $124.2 million,
    compared with $198.0 million in 2009 and
    $117.7 million in 2008.

Total

Total

Total

Year

Year

Year

Free Cash Flow(a)




(In millions,

brackets indicate use of funds)

Cash provided by operating activities, continuing operations

$

127.1

$

160.4

$

120.2

Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment

(31.0

)

(33.5

)

(38.2

)

Free cash flow

96.1

126.9

82.0

Pension contributions, net of tax(b)

28.1

71.1

35.7

Adjusted free cash flow

$

124.2

$

198.0

$

117.7

(a)

We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating
    activities from continuing operations (a measure prescribed by
    generally accepted accounting principles) less capital
    expenditures for property, plant and equipment. Adjusted free
    cash flow eliminates the impact of pension contributions on a
    net of tax basis. We believe that this supplemental non-GAAP
    information is useful to assist management and the investment
    community in analyzing our ability to generate cash flow,
    including the impact of voluntary and required pension
    contributions.

(b)

All pension cash contributions were voluntary.

Working
    Capital

Working capital increased to $306.8 million at year-end
    2010, compared with $242.5 million at year-end 2009. The
    increase in working capital reflected the higher cash balances
    and higher accounts receivables. The higher cash balance
    reflects unused cash proceeds from the private placement of debt
    in September 2010. The higher accounts receivables balance
    reflects higher deferred accounts receivable and timing of sales.

Balance
    Sheet Changes

The changes in the following selected components of
    Teledyne’s balance sheet are discussed below (in millions):



Cash and cash equivalents

$

75.1

$

26.1

Accounts receivable, net

$

254.8

$

228.7

Long-term deferred income taxes, net

$

—

$

17.6

Goodwill

$

546.3

$

501.5

Acquired intangible assets, net

$

113.9

$

109.6

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, net of current
    portion

$

265.3

$

251.6

Accrued pension obligation — long term

$

62.1

$

79.8

The higher cash balance reflects unused cash proceeds from the
    private placement of debt in September 2010. The higher balance
    in accounts receivable reflected higher deferred accounts
    receivable and timing of sales. The decrease in long-term
    deferred income taxes was primarily due to the pension
    contributions in 2010. The increase in goodwill reflected
    current year acquisitions. The increase in acquired intangible
    assets primarily reflected current year acquisitions, partially
    offset by amortization. The increase in long-term debt and
    capital lease obligations primarily reflected issuance of
    $250.0 million of private placement debt, partially offset
    by cash used for acquisitions and the repayment of the amended
    and restated credit facility. The accrued pension obligation
    decreased primarily as a result of pension contributions, and a
    decrease in the unfunded pension liability in 2010 due to the
    increase in pension assets during the year resulting from
    positive market returns, partially offset by the inclusion of
    the Intelek defined benefit pension plan that the Company
    assumed responsibility for in connection with the acquisition of
    Intelek.



Investing
    Activities

Net cash used in investing activities included capital
    expenditures as presented below (in millions):

Capital
    Expenditures




Instrumentation

$

6.4

$

16.1

$

12.5

Digital Imaging

11.3

5.7

7.1

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

9.7

8.4

14.5

Engineered Systems

3.6

3.3

4.0

Corporate

—

—

0.1

$

31.0

$

33.5

$

38.2

During 2011 we plan to invest approximately $50.0 million
    to $55.0 million in capital expenditures, principally to
    upgrade capital equipment, reduce manufacturing costs and
    introduce new products. Commitments at January 2, 2011, for
    capital expenditures were approximately $5.6 million.

Investing activities from continuing operations used cash for
    acquisitions of $67.9 million, $27.1 million and
    $284.9 million, in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively
    (see “Recent Acquisitions” table). We received
    $0.4 million in 2008 from the sale of assets.

Teledyne funded the acquisitions primarily from borrowings under
    its credit facility and cash on hand.

In all acquisitions, the results of operations and cash flows
    are included in our consolidated financial statements form the
    date of each respective acquisition. Each of the acquisitions is
    part of the Instrumentation segment except the Optimum, Intelek,
    Storm, Filtronic, Judson and Demo acquisitions. Storm, Filtronic
    and Demo are part of the Aerospace and Defense Electronics
    segment. Intelek is part of the Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics segment, except for the CML division of Intelek
    which is part of the Engineered Systems segment. Optimum and
    Judson are part of the Digital Imaging segment.

The following table shows the purchase price, goodwill acquired
    and intangible assets acquired for the acquisitions made in
    fiscal 2010 and 2008 (in millions):

Fiscal Year 2010

Acquired

Purchase

Goodwill

Intangible

Acquisition Date

Name

Price(a)

Acquired

Assets

June 7, 2010

Optimum

$

5.7

$

4.3

$

1.9

July 26, 2010

Intelek

43.5

34.0

15.3

September 20, 2010

Gavia

10.8

8.1

2.3

$

60.0

$

46.4

$

19.5

(a)

includes transaction costs that are expensed under current
    accounting guidance.



Fiscal Year 2008

Acquired

Purchase

Goodwill

Intangible

Acquisition Date

Name

Price(a)

Acquired

Assets

December 31, 2007

Impulse

$

35.0

$

15.3

$

16.2

December 31, 2007

Storm

47.7

31.4

10.0

January 31, 2008

TSS

54.8

28.6

23.0

February 1, 2008

Judson

27.0

13.9

7.9

July 7, 2008

Webb

24.3

13.6

8.1

August 15, 2008

Filtronic

24.1

9.8

2.8

October 16, 2008

Cormon

20.9

11.9

8.3

December 19, 2008

Odom

7.0

4.5

2.3

December 24, 2008

Demo

5.3

4.0

1.0

$

246.1

$

133.0

$

79.6

(a)

includes transaction costs that were capitalized as part of the
    purchase price.

Except for the Gavia, Storm and Demo acquisitions, goodwill
    resulting from the acquisitions made in fiscal 2010 and 2008
    will be deductible for tax purposes.

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in fiscal 2010 and 2008 (in
    millions):



Current assets, excluding cash acquired

$

18.4

$

61.6

Property, plant and equipment

16.5

17.8

Goodwill

46.4

133.0

Intangible assets

19.5

79.6

Total assets acquired

100.8

292.0

Current liabilities, including short-term debt

18.8

34.1

Other long-term liabilities

25.0

11.8

Total liabilities assumed

43.8

45.9

Purchase price, net of cash acquired

$

57.0

$

246.1

Financing
    Activities

Cash provided by financing activities for 2010 reflected the
    $250.0 million proceeds from the issuance of Senior Notes
    and repayment of borrowings under our revolving credit agreement
    of $246.4 million. Cash used by financing activities for
    2009 reflected net repayments of borrowings of
    $81.6 million, primarily under our revolving credit
    agreement. Cash provided by financing activities for 2008
    reflected the net borrowings of $189.9 million. Fiscal
    years 2010, 2009 and 2008 all reflect proceeds from the exercise
    of stock options of $3.9 million, $1.1 million and
    $13.0 million, respectively. Fiscal years 2010, 2009 and
    2008 included $1.5 million, $0.8 million and
    $10.3 million, respectively, in excess tax benefits related
    to stock-based compensation.

Teledyne’s amended and restated credit facility had lender
    commitments of $590.0 million and was set to expire in July
    2011. At year-end 2010, we had $589.3 million of available
    committed credit under the credit facility, which can be
    utilized, as needed, for daily operating and periodic cash
    needs, including acquisitions. Excluding interest and fees, no
    payments were due under the amended and restated credit facility
    until it matures. Borrowings under this credit facility were at
    variable rates which were, at our option, tied to a eurodollar
    base rate equal to LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate) plus an
    applicable rate or a base rate as



defined in our credit agreement. LIBOR based loans under the
    facility typically had terms of one, two, three or six months
    and the interest rate for each such loan is subject to change if
    the loan is continued or converted following the applicable
    maturity date. Base rate loans had interest rates that primarily
    fluctuate with changes in the prime rate. Interest rates were
    also subject to change based on our debt to earnings before
    interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
    (“EBITDA”) ratio. The credit agreement also provided
    for facility fees that vary between 0.10% and 0.25% of the
    credit line, depending on our consolidated leverage ratio as
    calculated from time to time. As noted earlier, on
    February 25, 2011, we refinanced the $590.0 million
    credit facility by terminating the facility and entering into a
    new facility that has lender commitments totaling
    $550.0 million. The new facility has a termination date of
    February 25, 2016. As of February 25, 2011, we had
    $273.0 million outstanding on the new facility.

On September 15, 2010 the Company issued
    $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of private
    placement Senior Notes at par. The notes consist of
    $75.0 million of 4.04% Senior Notes due
    September 15, 2015, $100.0 million of
    4.74% Senior Notes due September 15, 2017 and
    $75.0 million of 5.30% Senior Notes due
    September 15, 2020. The interest rates for the notes were
    determined on April 14, 2010. The Company used the proceeds
    of the private placement Senior Notes to pay down amounts
    outstanding under the Company’s then existing $590.0
    million credit facility.

The credit agreements require the Company to comply with various
    financial and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios, as well as
    minimum net worth levels and limits on acquired debt. We also
    have a $5.0 million uncommitted credit line which permits
    credit extensions up to $5.0 million plus an incremental $6.5
    million solely for standby letters of credit. There were no
    outstanding funding advances under the uncommitted credit line
    at January 2, 2011. Total debt at year-end 2010 includes
    $250.0 million outstanding in Senior Notes. No amounts were
    outstanding under the now terminated $590.0 million credit
    facility at year-end 2010. The Company also has
    $17.3 million outstanding under capital leases, of which
    $2.0 million is current. At year-end 2010, Teledyne had
    $12.2 million in outstanding letters of credit.

In 2009, Teledyne repurchased 36,239 shares of Teledyne
    common stock for $0.8 million under this now-expired
    program. No shares were repurchased in 2010.

Pension
    and Postretirement Plans

As of January 1, 2004, non-union new hires participate in
    an enhanced defined contribution plan as opposed to the
    Company’s existing defined benefit pension plan. The plan
    was closed to all union new hires as of February 20, 2007.
    Teledyne anticipates making pretax cash contributions of
    approximately $37.0 million to its domestic pension plan in
    2011 before recovery from the U.S. Government and expects
    to make an additional pretax cash contribution of
    $32.0 million provided the sale of the former Aerospace
    Engines and Components segment is completed. In connection with
    the acquisition of Intelek, the Company assumed responsibility
    for a defined benefit pension plan based in the United Kingdom
    covering certain employees of Intelek. The plan was closed to
    new members in January 2000 and ceased further service accruals
    to members in September 2002.

Other
    Matters

Income
    Taxes

The Company’s effective tax rate for 2010 was 30.9%,
    compared with 30.0% for 2009 and 36.8% for 2008. Fiscal years
    2010, 2009 and 2008 included net tax credits of
    $12.5 million, $15.0 million and $3.3 million,
    respectively, primarily research and development tax credits.
    Excluding these items the company’s effective tax rates for
    fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 would have been 38.1%, 39.1%
    and 38.5%, respectively. Based on the Company’s history of
    operating earnings, expectations of future operating earnings
    and potential tax planning strategies, it is more likely than
    not that the deferred income tax assets at January 2, 2011
    will be realized.



Costs and
    Pricing

Inflationary trends in recent years have been moderate. Current
    inventory costs, the increasing costs of equipment and other
    costs are considered in establishing sales pricing policies. The
    Company emphasizes cost containment in all aspects of its
    business.

Hedging
    Activities; Market Risk Disclosures

In the first and second quarters of 2010, Teledyne entered into
    cash flow hedges of forecasted interest payments associated with
    the then anticipated issuance of fixed rate debt. The objective
    of these cash flow hedges was to protect against the risk of
    changes in the interest payments attributable to changes in the
    designated benchmark, which is the LIBOR interest rate leading
    up to the fixed rate on the anticipated issuance of fixed rate
    debt being locked. The notional amount of the debt hedged was
    $150.0 million. In the second quarter, concurrent with the
    interest rates being determined on the fixed rate debt, Teledyne
    terminated the cash flow hedges for a total payment of
    $0.6 million. Except for the cash flow hedges, we have not
    entered into any derivative financial instruments such as
    futures contracts, options and swaps, forward foreign exchange
    contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during 2010 or
    2009. We had no derivative financial instruments outstanding at
    January 2, 2011. We believe that adequate controls are in
    place to monitor any hedging activities. Our primary exposure to
    market risk relates to changes in interest rates and foreign
    currency exchange rates. We periodically evaluate these risks
    and have taken measures to mitigate these risks. We own assets
    and operate facilities in countries that have been politically
    stable. Also, our foreign risk management objectives are geared
    towards stabilizing cash flow from the effects of foreign
    currency fluctuations. Most of our sales are denominated in
    U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of exchange rate
    changes. Borrowings under our credit facility are at fixed rates
    that vary with the term and timing of each loan under the
    facility. Loans under the facility typically have terms of one,
    two, three or six months and the interest rate for each such
    loan is subject to change if the loan is continued or converted
    following the applicable maturity date. Interest rates are also
    subject to change based on our debt to earnings before interest,
    taxes, depreciation and amortization ratio. However, as of
    January 2, 2011, we had no outstanding indebtedness under
    our amended and restated credit facility. Any borrowings under
    the Company’s revolving credit line are based on a
    fluctuating market interest rate and, consequently, the fair
    value of any outstanding debt should not be affected materially
    by changes in market interest rates. On February 25, 2011,
    we refinanced the $590.0 million credit facility by
    terminating the facility and entering into a new facility that
    has lender commitments totaling $550.0 million. The new
    facility has a termination date of February 25, 2016. As of
    February 25, 2011 we had $273.0 million outstanding on
    the new facility.

Related
    Party Transactions

Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is a
    director of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, as is one
    of our other directors. On February 8, 2011, our Chairman
    notified The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation that he plans
    to retire as a director on April 12, 2011. The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation is the successor to Mellon Financial
    Corporation following its merger with The Bank of New York in
    2007. Another of our directors was a former chief executive
    officer of Mellon Financial Corporation. All transactions with
    The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and its respective
    affiliates are effected under normal commercial terms, and we
    believe that our relationships with The Bank of New York Mellon
    Corporation and its respective affiliates are arms-length. The
    Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is one of 13 lenders under
    our prior $590.0 million credit facility, having committed
    up to $90.0 million under the facility. The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation is one of 12 lenders under our new
    $550.0 million credit facility, having committed up to
    $45.0 million under the facility. The Bank of New York
    Mellon Corporation also provides cash management services,
    serves as trustee for the Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Pension Plan and, through its subsidiaries and affiliates,
    provides asset management and transition management services for
    the Pension Plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC, dba BNY
    Mellon Shareowner Services, serves as our transfer agent and
    registrar and also handles administration of our stock options.
    We engaged BNY Mellon Shareowner Services to help us solicit
    proxies in connection with our annual meetings.



Until its expiration in November 2009, BNY Mellon Shareowner
    Services was the rights agent under our Shareholder Rights Plan.

Environmental

We are subject to various federal, state, local and
    international environmental laws and regulations which require
    that we investigate and remediate the effects of the release or
    disposal of materials at sites associated with past and present
    operations. These include sites at which Teledyne has been
    identified as a potentially responsible party under the
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
    Act, commonly known as Superfund, and comparable state laws. We
    are currently involved in the investigation and remediation of a
    number of sites. Reserves for environmental investigation and
    remediation totaled $5.2 million at January 2, 2011
    and $3.0 million at January 3, 2010. The increase from
    2009 reflects environmental liabilities assumed in the Intelek
    acquisition. As investigation and remediation of these sites
    proceed and new information is received, the Company expects
    that accruals will be adjusted to reflect new information. Based
    on current information, we do not believe that future
    environmental costs, in excess of those already accrued, will
    materially and adversely affect our financial condition or
    liquidity. However, resolution of one or more of these
    environmental matters or future accrual adjustments in any one
    reporting period could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations for that period. See also our
    environmental risk factor disclosure beginning at page 34.

For additional discussion of environmental matters, see
    Notes 2 and 15 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

Government
    Contracts

We perform work on a number of contracts with the Department of
    Defense and other agencies and departments of the
    U.S. Government including

sub-contracts

with government prime contractors. Sales under these contracts
    with the U.S. Government, which included contracts with the
    Department of Defense, were approximately 44% of total sales in
    2010, 47% of total sales in 2009 and 44% of total sales in 2008.
    For a summary of sales to the U.S. Government by segment,
    see Note 13 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. Sales to the Department of Defense represented
    approximately 34%, 36% and 32% of total sales for 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. See also our government contracts risks
    factor disclosure beginning at page 20.

Performance under government contracts has certain inherent
    risks that could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business, results of operations and financial
    condition. Government contracts are conditioned upon the
    continuing availability of Congressional appropriations, which
    usually occurs on a fiscal year basis even though contract
    performance may take more than one year.

For information on accounts receivable from the
    U.S. Government, see Note 5 to the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

Estimates
    and Reserves

Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results
    of operations are based upon our consolidated financial
    statements, which have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
    The preparation of these financial statements requires us to
    make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related
    disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we
    evaluate our estimates, including those related to product
    returns and replacements, allowance for doubtful accounts,
    inventories, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty
    obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits,
    long-term contracts, environmental, workers’ compensation
    and general liability, employee dental and medical benefits and
    other contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on
    historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
    believed to be reasonable under the circumstances at the time,
    the results of which form the basis for making our judgments.
    Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under
    different assumptions



or conditions. In some cases, such differences may be material.
    See “Other Matters — Critical Accounting
    Policies”.

The following table reflects significant reserves and valuation
    accounts, which are estimates and based on judgments as
    described above, at January 2, 2011 and January 3,
    2010 (In millions):

Reserves
    and Valuation Accounts (a)



Allowance for doubtful accounts

$

2.9

$

2.3

LIFO inventory reserves

$

16.5

$

15.7

Other inventory reserves

$

27.2

$

26.5

Workers’ compensation and general liability reserves(b)

$

9.5

$

10.0

Warranty reserves(b)

$

13.0

$

13.6

Environmental reserves(b)

$

5.2

$

3.0

Other accrued liability reserves(b)

$

2.1

$

2.2

(a)

This table should be read in conjunction with the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b)

Includes both long-term and short-term reserves.

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. We regularly assess the adequacy of our
    pre-existing warranty liabilities and adjust amounts as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
    one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the
    balance sheet. Changes in the Company’s product warranty
    reserve are as follows (in millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

13.6

$

11.0

$

8.2

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

4.0

9.5

6.1

Cost of product warranty claims

(4.8

)

(6.9

)

(5.6

)

Acquisitions

0.2

—

2.3

Balance at year-end

$

13.0

$

13.6

$

11.0

Critical
    Accounting Policies

The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in
    conformity with United States generally accepted accounting
    principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions
    that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
    the notes to the financial statements. Some of those judgments
    can be subjective and complex, and therefore, actual results
    could differ materially from those estimates under different
    assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies are
    those that are reflective of significant judgment, complexity
    and uncertainty, and may potentially result in materially
    different results under different assumptions and conditions. We
    have identified the following as critical accounting policies:
    revenue recognition; accounting for pension plans; accounting
    for business combinations, goodwill and other long-lived assets;
    and accounting for income taxes. For additional discussion of
    the application of these and other accounting policies, see
    Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and sales from U.S. Government fixed-price
    type contracts are generally recorded as shipments are made or
    as services are rendered. Occasionally, for certain fixed-price
    type contracts that require substantial performance over a long
    time period (generally one or more years), revenues are recorded
    under the

percentage-of-completion

method. We measure the extent of progress toward completion
    using the



units-of-delivery

method,

cost-to-cost

method or upon attainment of scheduled performance milestones
    which could be time, event or expense driven. Occasionally,
    invoices are submitted to and paid by the customer under a
    contractual agreement which has a different time schedule than
    the related revenue recognition. Sales under cost-reimbursement
    contracts, usually from the U.S. Government, are recorded
    as allowable costs are incurred and fees are earned.

The development of cost of sales percentages used to record
    costs under certain fixed-price type contracts and fees under
    certain cost-reimbursement type contracts requires
    management’s judgment to make reasonably dependable cost
    estimates for the design, manufacture and delivery of products
    and services, generally over a long time period. Since certain
    fixed-price and cost-reimbursement type contracts extend over a
    long period of time, the impact of revisions in cost and revenue
    estimates during the progress of work may adjust the current
    period earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. This method recognizes in the current period the
    cumulative effect of the changes on current and prior quarters.
    For fixed-price contracts, if the current contract estimate
    indicates a loss, a provision is made for the total anticipated
    loss in the period that it becomes evident. Contract cost and
    revenue estimates for significant contracts are generally
    reviewed and reassessed quarterly. These types of contracts and
    estimates are most frequently related to our sales to the
    U.S. Government or sales to other defense contractors for
    ultimate sale to the U.S. Government. The Company follows
    the revenue recognition criteria under Accounting Standards
    Codification (“ASC”)

605-10-S99-1,

Revenue Recognition. For our sales to the U.S. Government
    in 2010, 2009 and 2008, operating income as a percent of sales
    did not vary by more than 1.5%. If operating income as a percent
    of sales to the U.S. Government had been higher or lower by
    1.5% in 2010, the Company’s operating income would have
    changed by approximately $12.9 million.

Accounting
    for Pension Plans

The Company’s accounting for its defined benefit pension
    plan requires that amounts recognized in financial statements be
    determined on an actuarial basis, rather than as contributions
    are made to the plan. A significant element in determining the
    Company’s pension income or expense is the expected return
    on plan assets, as well as the assumed discount rate on pension
    liabilities. The Company has assumed, based upon the types of
    securities the plan assets are invested in and the long-term
    historical returns of these investments, that the long-term
    expected return on pension assets will be 8.25% in 2011 for its
    domestic pension plan and 6.6% for its foreign pension plan. The
    assumed discount rate will be 5.9% in 2011 for its domestic
    pension plan and 5.4% for its foreign pension plan. The
    Company’s long-term expected return on pension assets used
    in 2010 was 8.25% and the assumed discount rate used in 2010 was
    6.25% for its domestic pension plans. The Company’s
    long-term expected return on pension assets used in 2010 was
    6.4% and the assumed discount rate used in 2010 was 5.6% for its
    foreign pension plan. The actual rate of return on pension
    assets was12.3% in 2010 and 12.5% in 2009 for its domestic
    pension plans. The actual rate of return on pension assets was
    12.1% in 2010 for its foreign pension plan. If the actual rate
    of return on pension assets is above the projection, the Company
    may be able to reduce its contributions to the pension trust. If
    the actual rate of return on pension assets is below the
    projection, the Company may be required to make additional
    contributions to the pension trust. The Company made pretax
    contributions of $37.0 million to its pension benefit plans
    in 2010 and currently anticipates making an pretax cash
    contribution of approximately $37.0 million to its pension
    benefit plans in 2011, before recovery from the
    U.S. Government and expects to make an additional pretax
    cash contribution of $32.0 million provided the sale of the
    former Aerospace Engines and Components segment is completed.
    The assumed long-term rate of return on assets is applied to the
    market-related value of plan assets at the end of the previous
    year. This produces the expected return on plan assets that is
    included in the annual pension income or expense calculation for
    the current year. The cumulative difference between this
    expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred
    and amortized into pension income or expense over future
    periods. At year-end 2010 the Company has a $168.0 million
    non-cash reduction to stockholders’ equity and a long-term
    additional liability of $276.6 million related to its
    pension plans. At year-end 2009, the Company had a
    $160.2 million non-cash reduction to stockholders’
    equity and a long-term additional liability of
    $263.6 million related to its pension plans. See
    Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    for additional pension disclosures.



Differences in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of
    return on assets within the indicated range would have had the
    following impact on 2010 pension expense:

0.25 Percentage

0.25 Percentage

Point Increase

Point Decrease

In millions

Increase (decrease) to pension expense resulting from:

Change in discount rate

$

(2.1

)

$

2.2

Change in long-term rate of return on plan assets

$

(1.8

)

$

1.8

See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional pension disclosures.

Accounting
    for Business Combinations, Goodwill, Acquired Intangible Assets
    and Other Long-Lived Assets

The Company accounts for goodwill and purchased intangible
    assets under ASC 80. In all acquisitions, the results are
    included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements
    from the date of each respective acquisition. Business
    acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase method by
    assigning the purchase price to tangible and intangible assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair values and the
    excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned is
    recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets with finite
    lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives.
    Adjustments to fair value assessments are recorded to goodwill
    over the purchase price allocation period.

Goodwill and acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives
    are not amortized. We review goodwill and acquired
    indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
    amount of these assets may not be recoverable. The Company also
    performs an annual impairment test in the fourth quarter of each
    year. We would test goodwill for impairment between annual tests
    if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely
    than not reduce our enterprise fair value below its book value.
    These events or circumstances could include a significant change
    in the business climate, including a significant sustained
    decline in an entity’s market value, legal factors,
    operating performance indicators, competition, sale or
    disposition of a significant portion of the business, or other
    factors. Based on the annual impairment test completed in the
    fourth quarter of 2010, no impairment of goodwill or intangible
    assets with indefinite lives was indicated.

For goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair
    value of the reporting units, using a discounted cash flow model
    based on our best estimate of amounts and timing of future
    revenues and cash flows and our most recent business and
    strategic plans, and compares the estimated fair value to the
    carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill. The
    discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about
    projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount
    rates and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties
    related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in
    applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment While the
    Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and
    assumptions to calculate the fair value of its reporting units,
    it is possible a material change could occur. If actual results
    are not consistent with management’s estimates and
    assumptions, goodwill may be overstated and a charge would need
    to taken against net earnings.

As of January 2, 2011, the Company had 33 reporting units
    for goodwill impairment testing. The carrying value of goodwill
    included in the Company’s individual reporting units ranges
    from $0.4 million to $63.2 million. The Company’s
    analysis in 2010 indicated that in all instances, the fair value
    of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying
    values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge.
    The excess of the estimated fair value over the carrying value
    (expressed as a percentage of carrying value of the respective
    reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units
    as of the fourth quarter of 2010, the annual testing date,
    ranged from approximately 20% to 1,600%.

Changes in these projections could affect the estimated fair
    value of certain of the Company’s reporting units and could
    result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period. In
    order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations
    used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a
    hypothetical 10%



decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared
    those values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on
    this sensitivity analysis, the Company did not identify any
    goodwill impairment charges.

The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangibles other than
    goodwill (primarily trademarks and trade names) consists of a
    comparison of the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible
    asset to the carrying value of the asset as of the impairment
    testing date. The Company estimates the fair value of its
    indefinite-lived intangibles using a discounted cash flow model
    based on our best estimate of amounts and timing of future
    revenues and cash flows and our most recent business and
    strategic plans, and compares the estimated fair value to the
    carrying value of the asset. The estimated fair values
    significantly exceed the carrying value for each of the
    Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets as of the
    fourth quarter of 2010, the annual testing date.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes

Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities
    reflect management’s assessment of actual future taxes to
    be paid on items reflected in the financial statements.
    Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions
    and determining our provision for income taxes. Uncertainty
    exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax
    returns still under examination and positions expected to be
    taken in future returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities
    arise due to differences between the consolidated financial
    statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities
    and their respective tax bases and tax carryforwards. Although
    we believe our income tax expense and deferred tax assets and
    liabilities are reasonable, no assurance can be given that the
    final tax outcome will not be different from that which is
    reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals.
    To the extent that the final tax outcome is different than the
    amounts recorded, such differences will impact the provision for
    income taxes in the period in which such determination is made.
    The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve
    provisions and changes to reserves that are considered
    appropriate, as well as the related net interest.

Significant judgment is required in determining any valuation
    allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the
    need for a valuation allowance, we consider all available
    evidence including past operating results, estimates of future
    taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies.
    In the event that we change our determination as to the amount
    of deferred tax assets that can be realized, we will adjust our
    valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to the provision
    for income taxes in the period in which such determination is
    made.

Our effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate primarily
    due to the tax impact of the prior year research and development
    tax credits, state taxes and tax audit settlements. The
    effective tax rate was 30.9%, 30.0% and 36.8% in fiscal 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

The following presents a rollforward of our unrecognized tax
    benefits (in millions):



Unrecognized

Unrecognized

Tax Benefits

Interest

Tax Benefits

Interest

Beginning of year

$

25.2

$

1.0

$

36.8

$

0.8

Increase (decrease) in prior year tax positions

(3.5

)

0.7

(3.2

)

0.4

Increase for tax positions taken during the current period

0.6

—

5.0

—

Reduction related to settlements with taxing authorities

(9.2

)

(0.4

)

(12.3

)

—

Reduction related to lapse of the statue of limitations

(3.0

)

(0.5

)

(1.1

)

(0.2

)

End of year

$

10.1

$

0.8

$

25.2

$

1.0

We recognized interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of
    $0.9 million and $0.9 million within the provision for
    income taxes in our statements of operations for fiscal year
    2010 and 2009, respectively.



As of January 2, 2011, we estimated that the entire balance
    of unrecognized tax benefits, if resolved in our favor, would
    positively impact the effective tax rate and, therefore be
    recognized as additional tax benefits in our income statement.

We file income tax returns in the United States federal
    jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions.
    The Company has substantially concluded on all U.S. federal
    and California income tax matters for all years through 2006.
    Substantially all other material state and local and foreign
    income tax matters have been concluded for years through 2005.

The Company anticipates the total unrecognized tax benefit for
    various federal and state tax items may be reduced by
    $2.4 million due to the expiration of statutes of
    limitation for various federal and state tax issues in the next
    12 months.

Accounting
    Pronouncements Adopted

In April 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Updates
    (“ASU”)

No. 2010-17,

“Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition.” This ASU
    allows entities to make a policy election to use the milestone
    method of revenue recognition and provides guidance on defining
    a milestone and the criteria that should be met for applying the
    milestone method. The scope of this ASU is limited to the
    transactions involving milestones relating to research and
    development deliverables. The guidance includes enhanced
    disclosure requirements about each arrangement, individual
    milestones and related contingent consideration, substantive
    milestones and factors considered in that determination. The
    amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively to milestones
    achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those
    years, beginning after June 15, 2010. Early application and
    retrospective application are permitted. We have evaluated this
    new ASU and have determined that it will not have a significant
    impact on the determination or reporting of our financial
    results.

Safe
    Harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
    Data

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operation contains forward-looking
    statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995, directly and indirectly relating to
    earnings, growth opportunities, product sales, capital
    expenditures, pension matters, stock option compensation
    expense, taxes and strategic plans. All statements made in this
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operation that are not historical in nature
    should be considered forward-looking. Actual results could
    differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Many
    factors could change the anticipated results: including
    disruptions in the global economy; changes in the insurance and
    credit markets; changes in demand for products sold to the
    defense electronics, instrumentation, digital imaging, energy
    exploration and production, commercial aviation, semiconductor
    and communications markets; funding, continuation and award of
    government programs; continued liquidity of our suppliers and
    customers (including commercial and aviation customers);
    availability of credit to our suppliers and customers; and a
    potential decrease in offshore oil production and exploration
    activity due to the April 2010 oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.
    Increasing fuel costs could negatively affect the markets of our
    commercial aviation businesses. Lower oil and natural gas
    prices, as well as instability in the Middle East or other oil
    producing regions, could negatively affect our businesses that
    supply the oil and gas industry. In addition, financial market
    fluctuations affect the value of our pension assets.

Global responses to terrorism and other perceived threats
    increase uncertainties associated with forward-looking
    statements about our businesses. Various responses to terrorism
    and perceived threats could realign government programs, and
    affect the composition, funding or timing of our programs.
    Changes in the policies of U.S. and foreign governments
    could result, over time, in reductions and realignment in
    defense or other government spending and further changes in
    programs in which the Company participates, including
    anticipated reductions in the Company’s missile defense
    engineering services and NASA programs.

The Company continues to take action to assure compliance with
    the internal controls, disclosure controls and other
    requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we believe
    our control systems are effective,



there are inherent limitations in all control systems, and
    misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and may not be
    detected.

While Teledyne’s growth strategy includes possible
    acquisitions, we cannot provide any assurance as to when, if or
    on what terms any acquisitions will be made. Acquisitions
    involve various inherent risks, such as, among others, our
    ability to integrate acquired businesses, retain customers and
    achieve identified financial and operating synergies. There are
    additional risks associated with acquiring, owning and operating
    businesses outside of the United States, including those arising
    from U.S. and foreign government policy changes or actions
    and exchange rate fluctuations.

Anticipated benefits of the recent DALSA acquisition are subject
    to numerous risks and uncertainties, including Teledyne’s
    ability to integrate the acquired operations, retain customers
    and achieve operating synergies, the ability of DALSA to develop
    and market new products, the operating results of DALSA being
    lower than anticipated, and unexpected acquisition-related costs
    and expenses.

With the recently completed acquisition of DALSA and upon
    completion of the pending divestiture of our piston engines
    businesses, which is subject to closing conditions, the
    Company’s risk profile will change, and may differ
    materially from prior years.

Additional information concerning factors that could cause
    actual results to differ materially from those projected in the
    forward-looking statements is contained beginning on
    page 18 of this

Form 10-K

under the caption “Risk Factors; Cautionary Statements as
    to Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements
    are generally accompanied by words such as “estimate”,
    “project”, “predict”, “believes”
    or “expect”, that convey the uncertainty of future
    events or outcomes. We assume no obligation to publicly update
    or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of
    new information or otherwise.

Item 7A.

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at page 63 under the caption “Other
    Matters — Hedging Activities; Market Risk
    Disclosures” of “Item 7. Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operation.”

Item 8.

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data.

The information required by this item is included in this Report
    at pages 76 through 117. See the “Index to Financial
    Statements and Related Information” at page 75.

Item 9.

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure.

None.

Item 9A.

Controls
    and Procedures.

Disclosure
    Controls

Teledyne’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed
    to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports
    that it files or submits, under the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
    the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the
    Securities and Exchange Commission and to provide reasonable
    assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in
    such reports is accumulated and communicated to the
    Company’s management, including its principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow
    timely decisions regarding required disclosure. The
    Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
    and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, with the
    participation and assistance of other members of management,
    have evaluated the effectiveness, as of January 2, 2011, of
    the Company’s “disclosure controls and
    procedures,” as that term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(e)

under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
    (“the Exchange Act”). Based upon that evaluation, our
    Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer
    concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures as of
    January 2, 2011, are effective at the reasonable assurance
    level.



Internal
    Controls

See Management Statement on page 76 for management’s
    annual report on internal control over financial reporting. See
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    page 77 for Ernst & Young LLP’s attestation
    report on management’s assessment of internal control over
    financial reporting.

There was no change in the Company’s “internal control
    over financial reporting” (as such term is defined in

Rule 13a-15(f)

under the Exchange Act) that occurred during the quarter ended
    January 2, 2011, that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially effect, the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting. There also were no
    significant deficiencies or material weaknesses identified for
    which corrective action needed to be taken.

Sarbanes-Oxley
    Disclosure Committee

The Company’s Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee includes
    the following members:

Stephen F. Blackwood, Vice President and Treasurer

Ivars R. Blukis, Chief Business Risk Assurance Officer (Internal
    Audit)

Melanie S. Cibik, Vice President, Associate General Counsel and
    Assistant Secretary

John T. Kuelbs, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and
    Secretary

Brian A. Levan, Director of External Financial Reporting and
    Assistant Controller

Susan L. Main, Vice President and Controller

Robyn E. McGowan, Vice President, Administration, Human
    Resources and Assistant Secretary

Patrick Neville, Vice President and Chief Information Officer

S. Paul Sassalos, Senior Corporate Counsel

Dale A. Schnittjer, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer

Jason VanWees, Vice President, Corporate Development and
    Investor Relations

Among its tasks, the Sarbanes-Oxley Disclosure Committee
    discusses and reviews disclosure issues to help us fulfill our
    disclosure obligations on a timely basis in accordance with SEC
    rules and regulations and is intended to be used as an
    additional resource for employees to raise questions regarding
    accounting, auditing, internal controls and disclosure matters.
    Our toll-free Ethics Help Line (1-877-666-6968) continues to be
    an alternative means to communicate concerns to the
    Company’s management.

Item 9B.

Other
    Information.

None.



PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.

In addition to the information set forth under the caption
    “Executive Management” beginning at page 14 in
    Part I of this Report, the information required by this
    item is set forth in the 2011 Proxy Statement under the captions
    “Item 1 on Proxy Card — Election of
    Directors,” “Board Composition and Practices,”
    “Corporate Governance,” “Committees of Our Board
    of Directors — Audit Committee” and “Report
    of the Audit Committee” and “Stock
    Ownership — Sections 16(a) Beneficial Ownership
    Reporting Compliance.” This information is incorporated
    herein by reference.

Item 11.

Executive
    Compensation.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2011
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Executive and Director
    Compensation” “Compensation Committee Interlocks and
    Insider Participation” and “Personnel and Compensation
    Committee Report.” This information is incorporated herein
    by reference.

Item 12.

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters.

Equity
    Compensation Plans Information

Except for the table below, the information required by this
    item is set forth in the 2011 Proxy Statement under the caption
    “Stock Ownership Information.”

The following table summarizes information with respect to
    equity compensation plans as of January 2, 2011:

Number of Securities

Remaining Available

for Future Issuance

Number of Securities

under Equity

to be Issued upon

Weighted- Average

Compensation Plans

Exercise of

Exercise Price of

[excluding securities

Outstanding Options,

Outstanding Options,

reflected in

Warrants and Rights

Warrants or Rights

column

Plan Category

(a)

(b)

(a)]

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders:

1999 Incentive Plan(1)

868,791

$

34.83

—

1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan(1)

281,052

$

20.47

—

2002 Stock Incentive Plan(1)

1,242,012

$

29.73

—

2008 Incentive Plan

507,766

$

40.93

778,363

(2)

Employee Stock Purchase Plan(3)

—

—

1,000,000

Equity compensation plans not approved security holders

—

—

—

Total

2,899,621

$

32.32

1,778,363

(1)

The 1999 Incentive Plan, the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan and the
    1999 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan terminated
    following stockholder approval of the 2008 Incentive Award Plan
    at our 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and no additional
    awards under these plans may be made thereafter.

(2)

The amount includes: up to 56,582 shares of our common
    stock potentially issuable at January 2, 2011, for the
    third and final installment under our Performance Share Plan
    (PSP) for the

2006-2008

performance cycle. A total of 53,834 shares were issued on
    February 2, 2009 with respect to the first installment
    thereto and 44,751 shares were issued on February 3,
    2010, with respect to the second installment thereto. The amount
    also includes: up to 104,810 shares of our common stock
    potentially issuable at January 2, 2011 under our



Performance Share Plan (PSP) for the

2009-2011

performance cycle. The shares would be issuable in three equal
    annual installments beginning in 2012.

(3)

We maintain an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (commonly known as
    The Stock Advantage Plan) for eligible employees. It enables
    employees to invest in our common stock through automatic,
    after-tax payroll deductions, within specified limits. We add a
    25% matching company contribution up to $1,200 annually. Our
    contribution is currently paid in cash and the plan
    administrator purchases shares of our common stock in the open
    market.

Item 13.

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2011
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Corporate
    Governance” and “Certain Transactions” and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services.

The information required by this item is set forth in the 2011
    Proxy Statement under the captions “Fees Billed by
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm” and
    “Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies” under
    “Item 2 on Proxy Card — Ratification of
    Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting
    Firm” and is incorporated herein by reference.



PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules.

(a) Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules:

(1) Financial Statements

See the “Index to Financial Statements and Related
    Information” at page 75 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

See Schedule II captioned “Valuation and Qualifying
    Accounts” at page 117 of this Report, which is
    incorporated herein by reference.

(3) Exhibits

A list of exhibits filed with this

Form 10-K

or incorporated by reference is found in the Exhibit Index
    immediately following the certifications of this Report and
    incorporated herein by reference.

(b) Exhibits:

See Item 15(a)(3) above.

(c) Financial Schedules:

See Item 15(a)(2) above.



INDEX TO
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND RELATED INFORMATION

Page

Financial Statements and Related Information:

Management Statement


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting


Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm


Consolidated Statements of Income


Consolidated Balance Sheets


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


Financial Statement Schedule:

Schedule II — Valuation and
    Qualifying Accounts




MANAGEMENT
    STATEMENT

RESPONSIBILITY
    FOR PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND ESTABLISHING AND
    MAINTAINING ADEQUATE INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are responsible for the preparation of the financial
    statements included in this Annual Report. The financial
    statements were prepared in accordance with accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America and include amounts that are based on the best estimates
    and judgments of management. The other financial information
    contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the financial
    statements.

Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance concerning the reliability of the financial data used
    in the preparation of Teledyne Technologies’ financial
    statements, as well as to safeguard the Company’s assets
    from unauthorized use or disposition.

All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have
    inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined
    to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with
    respect to financial statement presentation.

REPORT OF
    MANAGEMENT ON TELEDYNE TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED’S INTERNAL
    CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

We are also responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting. We conducted
    an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of January 2,
    2011. In making this evaluation, we used the criteria set forth
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (“COSO”) in Internal Control —
    Integrated Framework. Our evaluation included reviewing the
    documentation of our controls, evaluating the design
    effectiveness of our controls and testing their operating
    effectiveness. Our evaluation did not include assessing the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for
    the 2010 acquisitions of Intelek plc, Optimum Optical Systems,
    Inc. and Hafmynd ehf., which are included in the 2010
    consolidated financial statements of the Company and
    constituted: $101.6 million and $61.5 million of total
    and net assets, respectively, as of January 2, 2011 and
    $25.3 million and $3.1 million of total revenues and
    net loss, respectively, for the year then ended. We did not
    assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial
    reporting at these newly acquired entities due to the
    insufficient time between the date acquired and year-end and the
    complexity associated with assessing internal controls during
    integration efforts making the process impractical. Based on
    this evaluation we believe that, as of January 2, 2011, the
    Company’s internal controls over financial reporting were
    effective.

Ernst and Young LLP, our independent registered public
    accounting firm, has issued their report on the effectiveness of
    Teledyne Technologies’ internal control over financial
    reporting. Their report appears on page 77 of this Annual
    Report.

Date:
    March 3, 2011

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Date:
    March 3, 2011

/s/

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Dale A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s
    internal control over financial reporting as of January 2,
    2011, based on criteria established in Internal
    Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee
    of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
    criteria). Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s management
    is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting included in the
    accompanying Report of Management on Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated’s Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.
    Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    company’s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

As indicated in the accompanying Report of Management on
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting, management’s assessment of and
    conclusion on the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting did not include the internal controls of the
    recent acquisitions of Intelek plc, Optimum Optical Systems,
    Inc. and Hafmynd ehf., which are included in the 2010
    consolidated financial statements of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated and constituted $101.6 million and
    $61.5 million of total and net assets, respectively, as of
    January 2, 2011 and $25.3 million and
    $3.1 million of total revenues and net loss, respectively,
    for the year then ended. Our audit of internal control over
    financial reporting of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated also
    did not include an evaluation of the internal control over
    financial reporting of Intelek plc, Optimum Optical Systems,
    Inc. and Hafmynd ehf.

In our opinion, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated maintained,
    in all material respects, effective internal control over
    financial reporting as of January 2, 2011, based on the
    COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated as of January 2, 2011 and January 3,
    2010, and the related consolidated statements of income,
    stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended January 2, 2011 of Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated and our report dated March 3,
    2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Los Angeles,
    California

March 3, 2011



REPORT OF
    INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated as of January 2, 2011
    and January 3, 2010, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, stockholders’ equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended January 2,
    2011. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
    listed in the index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial
    statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
    Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
    audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated at
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, and the
    consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for
    each of the three years in the period ended January 2,
    2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
    statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
    financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all
    material respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated’s internal control over
    financial reporting as of January 2, 2011, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated March 3, 2011
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/

Ernst &
    Young LLP

Los Angeles,
    California

March 3, 2011



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF INCOME

(In millions, except per-share
    amounts)




Sales

$

1,644.2

$

1,652.1

$

1,722.0

Costs and Expenses

Cost of sales

1,148.1

1,177.3

1,205.9

Selling, general and administrative expenses

317.6

303.4

317.5

Total costs and expenses

1,465.7

1,480.7

1,523.4

Income before other income and expense and income taxes

178.5

171.4

198.6

Interest and debt expense, net

(6.5

)

(4.8

)

(10.9

)

Other income (expense), net

1.6

(0.2

)

0.3

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

173.6

166.4

188.0

Provision for income taxes

53.6

50.0

69.1

Net income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
    interest

120.0

116.4

118.9

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes

0.6

(2.6

)

(5.3

)

Net income before noncontrolling interest

120.6

113.8

113.6

Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.1

)

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

120.5

$

113.3

$

111.3

Net income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
    interest

$

120.0

$

116.4

$

118.9

Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.1

)

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

Net income from continuing operations

119.9

115.9

116.6

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income
    taxes

0.6

(2.6

)

(5.3

)

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

120.5

$

113.3

$

111.3

Basic earnings per common share

— Continuing operations

$

3.31

$

3.22

$

3.29

— Discontinued operations

0.02

(0.07

)

(0.15

)

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.33

$

3.15

$

3.14

Diluted earnings per common share

— Continuing operations

$

3.25

$

3.17

$

3.20

— Discontinued operations

0.02

(0.07

)

(0.15

)

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.27

$

3.10

$

3.05

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    BALANCE SHEETS

(In millions, except share amounts)



Assets

Cash and cash equivalents

$

75.1

$

26.1

Accounts receivable, net

254.8

228.7

Inventories, net

172.3

164.8

Deferred income taxes, net

28.4

26.2

Prepaid expenses and other current assets

42.3

32.6

Assets of discontinued operation held for sale

75.1

90.2

Total current assets

648.0

568.6

Property, plant and equipment, net

203.4

187.9

Deferred income taxes, net

—

17.6

Goodwill, net

546.3

501.5

Acquired intangibles, net

113.9

109.6

Other assets, net

46.2

36.3

Total Assets

$

1,557.8

$

1,421.5

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

Accounts payable

$

100.6

$

96.7

Accrued liabilities

177.3

164.3

Liabilities of discontinued operation held for sale

61.3

64.5

Current portion of long-term debt and capital lease

2.0

0.5

Total current liabilities

341.2

326.0

Long-term debt and capital lease obligations

265.3

251.6

Accrued pension obligation

62.1

79.8

Accrued postretirement benefits

16.5

15.7

Other long-term liabilities

85.7

81.0

Total Liabilities

770.8

754.1

Stockholders’ equity

Preferred stock, $0.01 par value; outstanding
    shares — none

—

—

Common stock, $0.01 par value; authorized 125 million
    shares;

Outstanding shares: 2010 — 36,363,372 and
    2009 — 36,078,269

0.4

0.4

Additional paid-in capital

267.5

254.7

Retained earnings

703.7

583.2

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

(185.6

)

(171.8

)

Total Stockholders’ Equity

786.0

666.5

Noncontrolling interest

1.0

0.9

Total Equity

787.0

667.4

Total Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity

$

1,557.8

$

1,421.5

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(In millions)

Total

Teledyne

Accumulated

Technologies

Additional

Other

Incorporated

Common

Paid-in

Treasury

Retained

Comprehensive

Stockholders’

Noncontrolling

Total

Stock

Capital

Stock

Earnings

Income (Loss)

Equity

Interest

Equity

Balance, December 30, 2007

$

0.4

$

206.9

$

—

$

359.9

$

(61.2

)

$

506.0

$

0.9

$

506.9

Net income

—

—

—

111.3

—

111.3

2.3

113.6

Other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

—

(23.4

)

(23.4

)

—

(23.4

)

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

(121.2

)

(121.2

)

—

(121.2

)

Comprehensive loss

—

—

—

111.3

(144.6

)

(33.3

)

2.3

(31.0

)

Reclassification to redeemable

—

—

—

—

—

—

(2.1

)

(2.1

)

noncontrollling interest

Stock option compensation expense

—

7.5

—

—

—

7.5

—

7.5

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

25.6

—

—

—

25.6

—

25.6

Balance, December 28, 2008

0.4

240.0

—

471.2

(205.8

)

505.8

1.1

506.9

Net income

—

—

—

113.3

—

113.3

0.5

113.8

Other comprehensive income, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation gains

—

—

—

—

3.4

3.4

—

3.4

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

30.6

30.6

—

30.6

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

113.3

34.0

147.3

0.5

147.8

Purchase of redeemable noncontrolling

—

4.7

—

(1.3

)

—

3.4

(0.7

)

2.7

interest

Treasury Stock-purchase

—

—

0.8

—

0.8

—

0.8

Treasury Stock-issuance

—

—

(0.8

)

—

(0.8

)

—

(0.8

)

Stock option compensation expense

—

5.4

—

—

—

5.4

—

5.4

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

4.6

—

—

—

4.6

—

4.6

Balance, January 3, 2010

0.4

254.7

—

583.2

(171.8

)

666.5

0.9

667.4

Net income

—

—

—

120.5

—

120.5

0.1

120.6

Other comprehensive income, net of tax:

Interest rate swap position

—

—

—

—

(0.6

)

(0.6

)

—

(0.6

)

Foreign currency translation losses

—

—

—

—

(3.7

)

(3.7

)

—

(3.7

)

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment

—

—

—

—

(9.5

)

(9.5

)

—

(9.5

)

Comprehensive income

—

—

—

120.5

(13.8

)

106.7

0.1

106.8

Stock option compensation expense

—

4.9

—

—

—

4.9

—

4.9

Exercise of stock options and other, net

—

7.9

—

—

—

7.9

—

7.9

Balance, January 2, 2011

$

0.4

$

267.5

$

—

$

703.7

$

(185.6

)

$

786.0

$

1.0

$

787.0

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

CONSOLIDATED
    STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(In millions)




Operating activities

Net income from continuing operations before non-controlling
    interest

$

120.0

$

116.4

$

118.9

Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization of assets

45.2

42.5

45.0

Deferred income taxes

17.1

59.5

(40.7

)

Stock option expense

4.9

5.4

7.5

Noncontrolling interest

0.1

0.5

2.3

Excess income tax benefits from stock options

(1.5

)

(0.8

)

(10.3

)

Changes in operating assets and liabilities, excluding the
    effect of businesses acquired:

Decrease (increase) in accounts receivable

(19.0

)

38.1

(23.7

)

Decrease (increase) in inventories

1.3

18.2

(4.3

)

Decrease (increase) in prepaid expenses and other assets

3.9

4.4

(1.9

)

Decrease (increase) in long-term assets

(2.5

)

(6.4

)

5.2

Decrease in accounts payable

(3.7

)

(5.7

)

(0.8

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued liabilities

10.7

(10.1

)

12.6

Decrease (increase) in current income taxes payable, net

(9.1

)

5.3

(6.7

)

Increase (decrease) in other long-term liabilities

(4.2

)

10.2

(2.7

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued postretirement benefits

0.8

(0.9

)

(6.2

)

Increase (decrease) in accrued pension obligation

(39.9

)

(117.4

)

32.4

Other operating, net

3.0

1.2

(6.4

)

Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing
    operations

127.1

160.4

120.2

Net cash provided (used) by discontinued operations

14.7

(5.5

)

0.2

Net cash provided by operating activities

141.8

154.9

120.4

Investing activities

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

(31.0

)

(33.5

)

(38.2

)

Purchase of businesses and other investments, net of cash
    acquired

(67.9

)

(27.1

)

(284.9

)

Proceeds from sale of assets

—

—

0.4

Net cash used by investing activities from continuing
    operations

(98.9

)

(60.6

)

(322.7

)

Net cash used by discontinued operations

(2.3

)

(8.1

)

(3.9

)

Net cash used by investing activities

(101.2

)

(68.7

)

(326.6

)

Financing activities

Proceeds from issuance of Senior Notes

250.0

—

—

Net proceeds (payments) — long-term debt

(246.4

)

(81.6

)

189.9

Purchase of treasury stock

—

(0.8

)

—

Issuance of treasury shares for stock options exercised

—

0.8

—

Tax benefit from stock options exercised

1.5

0.8

10.3

Issuance of cash flow hedges

(0.6

)

—

—

Proceeds from exercise of stock options

3.9

0.3

13.0

Net cash provided (used) by financing activities

8.4

(80.5

)

213.2

Increase in cash and cash equivalents

49.0

5.7

7.0

Cash and cash equivalents — beginning of year

26.1

20.4

13.4

Cash and cash equivalents — end of year

$

75.1

$

26.1

$

20.4

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial
    statements.



TELEDYNE
    TECHNOLOGIES INCORPORATED

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Note 1.  Description
    of Business

Effective November 29, 1999 (the “Distribution
    Date”), Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (“Teledyne” or the “Company”), became an
    independent, public company as a result of the distribution by
    Allegheny Teledyne Incorporated, now known as Allegheny
    Technologies Incorporated (“ATI”), of the
    Company’s Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, to
    holders of ATI Common Stock at a distribution ratio of one for
    seven (the “spin-off”). The spin-off has been treated
    as a tax-free distribution for federal income tax purposes. The
    spin-off included the transfer of certain of the businesses of
    ATI’s Aerospace and Electronics segment to the new
    corporation, immediately prior to the Distribution Date. ATI no
    longer has a financial investment in Teledyne.

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components and subsystems, instrumentation and communications
    products, including defense electronics, digital imaging,
    monitoring and control instrumentation for marine, environmental
    and industrial applications, harsh environment interconnect
    products, data acquisition and communications equipment for air
    transport and business aircraft, and components and subsystems
    for wireless and satellite communications. We also provide
    engineered systems and information technology services for
    defense, space, environmental and nuclear applications and
    supply energy generation, energy storage and small propulsion
    products.

Teledyne serves niche market segments where performance,
    precision and reliability are critical. Teledyne’s
    customers include government agencies, aerospace prime
    contractors, energy exploration and production companies, major
    industrial companies and airlines companies.

Teledyne consists of the Instrumentation segment with operations
    in the United States, United Kingdom, Iceland, Singapore, China,
    France and Brazil; the Digital Imaging segment with operations
    in the United States; the Aerospace and Defense segment with
    operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Mexico,
    Singapore, China and Australia; and the Engineered Systems
    segment with operations in the United States and the United
    Kingdom.

In December 2010, we entered into an agreement to sell our
    general aviation piston engines businesses, which comprised the
    former Aerospace Engines and Components segment. We have
    restated prior year financial data to classify this segment as a
    discontinued operation.

Note 2.  Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles
    of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Teledyne and all wholly-owned and majority-owned domestic and
    foreign subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions
    have been eliminated.

Fiscal
    Year

The Company operates on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year convention
    ending on the Sunday nearest to December 31. Fiscal year
    2010 was a 52-week fiscal year and ended on January 2,
    2011. Fiscal year 2009 was a 53-week fiscal year and ended on
    January 3, 2010. Fiscal year 2008 was a 52-week fiscal year
    and ended on December 28, 2008. References to the years
    2010, 2009 and 2008 are intended to refer to the respective
    fiscal year unless otherwise noted.

Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
    generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
    make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of
    assets, liabilities,



revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent
    liabilities. On an ongoing basis, the Company evaluates its
    estimates, including those related to product returns and
    replacements, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories,
    intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, pension
    and other postretirement benefits, long-term contracts,
    environmental, workers’ compensation and general liability,
    employee dental and medical benefits and other contingencies and
    litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical
    experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to
    be reasonable under the circumstances at the time, the results
    of which form the basis for making its judgments. Actual results
    may differ materially from these estimates under different
    assumptions or conditions. Management believes that the
    estimates are reasonable.

Revenue
    Recognition

Commercial sales and revenue from U.S. Government
    fixed-price type contracts generally are recorded as shipments
    are made, as services are rendered or in some cases, on a

percentage-of-completion

basis. Sales under cost-reimbursement contracts are recorded as
    work is performed. Occasionally, for certain fixed-price type
    contracts that require substantial performance over a long time
    period (generally one or more years), revenues are recorded
    under the

percentage-of-completion

method. We measure the extent of progress toward completion
    using the

units-of-delivery

method,

cost-to-cost

method or based upon attainment of scheduled performance
    milestones which could be time, event or expense driven.
    Occasionally, invoices are submitted to be paid by the customer
    under a contractual agreement which has a different time
    schedule than the related revenue recognition. Since certain
    contracts extend over a long period of time, all revisions in
    cost and revenue estimates during the progress of work have the
    effect of adjusting the current period earnings on a cumulative

catch-up

basis. If the current contract estimate indicates a loss,
    provision is made for the total anticipated loss in the period
    that it becomes evident. Sales under cost-reimbursement
    contracts are recorded as allowable costs are incurred and fees
    are earned. The Company follows the revenue recognition criteria
    under Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”)

605-10-S99-1,

Revenue Recognition.

Shipping
    and Handling

Shipping and handling fees charged to customers are classified
    as revenue while shipping and handling costs retained by
    Teledyne are classified as cost of sales in the accompanying
    consolidated statements of income.

Product
    Warranty and Recall and Replacement Costs

Some of the Company’s products are subject to specified
    warranties and the Company provides for the estimated cost of
    product warranties. The adequacy of the preexisting warranty
    liabilities is assessed regularly and the reserve is adjusted as
    necessary based on a review of historic warranty experience with
    respect to the applicable business or products, as well as the
    length and actual terms of the warranties, which are typically
    one year. The product warranty reserve is included in current
    accrued liabilities and long-term liabilities on the balance
    sheet. Changes in the Company’s product warranty reserve
    are as follows (in millions):




Balance at beginning of year

$

13.6

$

11.0

$

8.2

Accruals for product warranties charged to expense

4.0

9.5

6.1

Cost of product warranty claims

(4.8

)

(6.9

)

(5.6

)

Acquisitions

0.2

—

2.3

Balance at year-end

$

13.0

$

13.6

$

11.0

The Company establishes reserves for product returns and
    replacements on a product-specific basis when circumstances
    giving rise to the return become known. Facts and circumstances
    related to a return, including where the product affected by the
    return is located (e.g., the end user, customers’
    inventory, or in Teledyne’s inventory) and cost estimates
    to return, repair

and/or

replace the product are considered when establishing a



product return reserve. The reserve is reevaluated each period
    and is adjusted when the reserve is either not sufficient to
    cover or exceeds the estimated product return expenses.

Research
    and Development

Selling, general and administrative expenses include
    company-funded research and development and bid and proposal
    costs which are expensed as incurred and were $61.3 million
    in 2010, $58.8 million in 2009, and $61.5 million in
    2008. Costs related to customer-funded research and development
    contracts were $258.6 million in 2010, $316.0 million
    in 2009 and $330.2 million in 2008 and are charged to cost
    of sales as the related sales are recorded. A portion of the
    costs incurred for company-funded research and development is
    recoverable through overhead cost allocations on government
    contracts.

Income
    Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with
    Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Deferred income tax
    assets and liabilities are determined on the estimated future
    tax effects of differences between the financial reporting and
    tax basis of assets and liabilities given the application of
    enacted tax laws. Deferred income tax provisions and benefits
    are based on changes to the asset or liability from year to
    year. A valuation allowance is recorded when it is more likely
    than not that some of the deferred tax assets will not be
    realized.

The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance
    with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Income tax
    positions must meet a more-likely-than-not recognition in order
    to be recognized in the financial statements. We recognize
    potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized
    tax benefits within operations as income tax expense. As new
    information becomes available, the assessment of the recognition
    threshold and the measurement of the associated tax benefit of
    uncertain tax positions may result in financial statement
    recognition or derecognition.

Net
    Income Per Common Share

Basic and diluted earnings per share were computed based on net
    earnings. The weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the period was used in the calculation of
    basic earnings per share. This number of shares was increased by
    contingent shares that could be issued under various
    compensation plans as well as by the dilutive effect of stock
    options based on the treasury stock method in the calculation of
    diluted earnings per share.



The following table sets forth the computations of basic and
    diluted earnings per share (amounts in millions, except per
    share data):




Net income from continuing operations before noncontrolling
    interest

$

120.0

$

116.4

$

118.9

Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

(0.1

)

(0.5

)

(2.3

)

Net income from continuing operations

119.9

115.9

116.6

Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income
    taxes

0.6

(2.6

)

(5.3

)

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

120.5

$

113.3

$

111.3

Basic earnings per share

Weighted average common shares outstanding

36.2

36.0

35.5

Basic earnings per common share

— Continuing operations

$

3.31

$

3.22

$

3.29

— Discontinued operations

0.02

(0.07

)

(0.15

)

Basic earnings per common share

$

3.33

$

3.15

$

3.14

Diluted earnings per share

Weighted average common shares outstanding

36.2

36.0

35.5

Diluted effect of contingently issuable shares

0.7

0.6

1.0

Weighted average common shares outstanding

36.9

36.6

36.5

Diluted earnings per common share

— Continuing operations

$

3.25

$

3.17

$

3.20

— Discontinued operations

0.02

(0.07

)

(0.15

)

Diluted earnings per common share

$

3.27

$

3.10

$

3.05

For 2010, 2009 and 2008, 846,307, 910,539 and 194,897 stock
    options were excluded in the computation of diluted earnings per
    share because they had exercise prices that were greater than
    the average market price of the Company’s common stock
    during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Stock options to purchase 2.1 million, 1.8 million and
    2.5 million shares of common stock at fiscal year-end 2010,
    2009, and 2008, respectively, had exercise prices that were less
    than the average market price of the Company’s common stock
    during the respective periods and are included in the
    computation of diluted earnings per share.

In addition 22,668, 14,135 and 5,902 contingent shares of the
    Company’s common stock under a compensation plan were
    excluded from fully diluted shares outstanding for 2010, 2009
    and 2008, respectively, since performance and other conditions
    for issuance have not yet been met.

Accounts
    Receivable

Receivables are presented net of a reserve for doubtful accounts
    of $2.9 million at January 2, 2011, and
    $2.3 million at January 3, 2010. Expense recorded for
    the reserve for doubtful accounts was $1.4 million,
    $0.4 million, and $0.6 million for 2010, 2009, and
    2008, respectively. An allowance for doubtful accounts is
    established for losses expected to be incurred on accounts
    receivable balances. Judgment is required in the estimation of
    the allowance and is based upon specific identification,
    collection history and creditworthiness of the debtor. The
    Company markets its products and services principally throughout
    the United States, Europe, Japan and Canada to commercial
    customers and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the
    U.S. Government. Trade credit is extended based upon
    evaluations of each customer’s ability to perform its
    obligations, which are updated periodically.



Cash
    Equivalents

Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid money-market mutual
    funds and bank deposits with initial maturities of three months
    or less. Cash equivalents totaled $61.8 million at
    January 2, 2011, and $11.2 million at January 3,
    2010.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, less
    progress payments. The majority of inventory values are stated
    at cost based on the

last-in,

first-out method, while the remainder are principally valued on
    an average cost, or

first-in,

first-out method. Costs include direct material, direct labor,
    applicable manufacturing and engineering overhead, and other
    direct costs.

Property,
    Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is capitalized at cost. Property,
    plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
    depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
    determined using a combination of accelerated and straight-line
    methods over the estimated useful lives of the various asset
    classes. Buildings are depreciated over periods not exceeding
    45 years, equipment over 5 to 18 years, computer
    hardware and software over 3 to 5 years and leasehold
    improvements over the shorter of the estimated remaining lives
    or lease terms. Significant improvements are capitalized while
    maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
    Depreciation expense on property, plant and equipment, including
    assets under capital leases, was $30.6 million in 2010,
    $30.1 million in 2009 and $29.2 million in 2008.

Goodwill
    and Other Intangible Assets

The Company performs an annual impairment test for goodwill and
    other intangible assets in the fourth quarter of each year, or
    more often as circumstances require. The two-step impairment
    test is used to first identify potential goodwill impairment and
    then measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss, if any.
    When it is determined that an impairment has occurred, an
    appropriate charge to operations is recorded. Based on the
    annual impairment test completed in the fourth quarter of 2010,
    no impairment of goodwill or intangible assets was indicated.

Business acquisitions are accounted for under the purchase
    method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and
    intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
    values and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
    assigned is recorded as goodwill. Purchased intangible assets
    with finite lives are amortized over their estimated useful
    lives. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are
    not amortized, but tested at least annually for impairment.

Other
    Long-Lived Assets

The carrying value of long-lived assets is periodically
    evaluated in relation to the operating performance and sum of
    undiscounted future cash flows of the underlying businesses. An
    impairment loss is recognized when the sum of expected
    undiscounted future net cash flows is less than book value.

Environmental

Costs that mitigate or prevent future environmental
    contamination or extend the life, increase the capacity or
    improve the safety or efficiency of property utilized in current
    operations are capitalized. Other costs that relate to current
    operations or an existing condition caused by past operations
    are expensed. Environmental liabilities are recorded when the
    Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable, but generally not later than the
    completion of the feasibility study or the Company’s
    recommendation of a remedy or commitment to an appropriate plan
    of action. The accruals are reviewed periodically and, as
    investigations and remediations proceed, adjustments are made as
    necessary. Accruals for losses from environmental remediation
    obligations do not consider the effects of inflation, and
    anticipated expenditures are not discounted to their present
    value. The accruals are not reduced by possible recoveries from
    insurance carriers or other



third parties, but do reflect anticipated allocations among
    potentially responsible parties at federal Superfund sites or
    similar state-managed sites and an assessment of the likelihood
    that such parties will fulfill their obligations at such sites.
    The measurement of environmental liabilities by the Company is
    based on currently available facts, present laws and
    regulations, and current technology. Such estimates take into
    consideration the Company’s prior experience in site
    investigation and remediation, the data concerning cleanup costs
    available from other companies and regulatory authorities, and
    the professional judgment of the Company’s environmental
    personnel in consultation with outside environmental
    specialists, when necessary.

Foreign
    Currency Translation

The Company’s foreign entities’ accounts are generally
    measured using local currency as the functional currency. Assets
    and liabilities of these entities are translated at the exchange
    rate in effect at year-end. Revenues and expenses are translated
    at average month end rates of exchange prevailing during the
    year. Unrealized translation gains and losses arising from
    differences in exchange rates from period to period are included
    as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in
    stockholders’ equity. Most of the Company’s sales are
    denominated in U.S. dollars which mitigates the effect of
    exchange rate changes.

Accounting
    Pronouncements Adopted

In April 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Updates
    (“ASU”)

No. 2010-17,

“Milestone Method of Revenue Recognition.” This ASU
    allows entities to make a policy election to use the milestone
    method of revenue recognition and provides guidance on defining
    a milestone and the criteria that should be met for applying the
    milestone method. The scope of this ASU is limited to the
    transactions involving milestones relating to research and
    development deliverables. The guidance includes enhanced
    disclosure requirements about each arrangement, individual
    milestones and related contingent consideration, substantive
    milestones and factors considered in that determination. The
    amendments in this ASU are effective prospectively to milestones
    achieved in fiscal years, and interim periods within those
    years, beginning after June 15, 2010. Early application and
    retrospective application are permitted. We have evaluated this
    new ASU and have determined that it will not have a significant
    impact on the determination or reporting of our financial
    results.

Hedging
    Activities

In the first and second quarters of 2010, Teledyne entered into
    cash flow hedges of forecasted interest payments associated with
    the then anticipated issuance of fixed rate debt. The objective
    of these cash flow hedges was to protect against the risk of
    changes in the interest payments attributable to changes in the
    designated benchmark, which is the LIBOR interest rate leading
    up to the fixed rate on the anticipated issuance of fixed rate
    debt being locked. The notional amount of the debt hedged was
    $150.0 million. In the second quarter, concurrent with the
    interest rates being determined on the fixed rate debt, Teledyne
    terminated the cash flow hedges for a total payment of
    $0.6 million. Except for the cash flow hedges, the Company
    has not entered into any derivative financial instruments such
    as futures contracts, options and swaps, forward foreign
    exchange contracts or interest rate swaps and futures during
    2010 or 2009. We had no derivative financial instruments
    outstanding at January 2, 2011.

Supplemental
    Cash Flow Information

Cash payments for federal, foreign and state income taxes were
    $59.9 million for 2010. Tax refunds received in 2010
    totaled $15.5 million. Cash payments for federal, foreign
    and state income taxes were $28.1 million for 2009. Tax
    refunds received in 2009 totaled $32.9 million. Cash
    payments for federal, foreign and state income taxes were
    $29.3 million for 2008 which is net of refunds of
    $0.5 million. Cash payments for interest and credit
    facility fees totaled $2.8 million, $6.5 million and
    $10.4 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



Comprehensive
    Income (Loss)

The Company’s comprehensive income consists of net income,
    the minimum benefit plan liability adjustment and foreign
    currency translation adjustments. See Note 12 for a further
    discussion of the minimum benefit plan liability adjustment. The
    Company’s comprehensive income was $106.7 million for
    2010, compared with comprehensive income of $147.3 million
    for 2009 and comprehensive loss of $33.3 million for 2008.

The year-end components of accumulated other comprehensive loss
    are shown in the following table (in millions):

Balance at year end




Foreign currency translation losses

$

(22.2

)

$

(18.5

)

$

(21.9

)

Hedging activities

(0.6

)

—

—

Minimum benefit plan liability adjustment(a)

(162.8

)

(153.3

)

(183.9

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss

$

(185.6

)

$

(171.8

)

$

(205.8

)

(a)

Net of deferred taxes of $105.5 million in 2010,
    $99.0 million in 2009 and $118.9 million in 2008.



Note 3.  Business
    Acquisitions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets

The table below summarizes the acquisitions we made during
    fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008. Other than the purchase of the
    assets of a marine sensor product line for $1.4 million and
    all of the remaining 14.1% minority interest in Ocean Design,
    Inc. (“ODI”) for $25.5 million, no other
    acquisitions have been made in fiscal year 2009. See
    Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for
    information about our fiscal year 2011 acquisition of DALSA
    Corporation (“DALSA”).

Primary

Pre-acquisition

Transaction

Purchase Price

Name and Description(1)

Date Acquired

Ownership

Location(s)

Sales Volume

Type

(2)(3)

(In millions)

Fiscal Year 2010

Optimum Optical Systems, Inc (“Optimum”)

Designs and manufacturers custom optics and optomechanical
    assemblies

June 7, 2010

100%

Camarillo, CA

$5.9 million for the

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2009

Stock

$

5.7

Intelek plc (“Intelek”)

Designs and manufactures electronic systems

for satellite and microwave communication and aerostructure
    manufacturing

July 26, 2010

100%

United Kingdom

and State

College, PA

£38 million for the

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2010

Stock

$

43.5

Hafmynd ehf., now known as Teledyne Gavia ehf
    (“Gavia”)

Designs and manufactures the
    Gavia

tm

autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV)

September 20, 2010

100%

Reykjavik,

Iceland

532.4 million

Icelandic króna for

the fiscal year

ended December

31, 2009

Stock

$

10.8

Fiscal Year 2008

Impulse Enterprise (“Impulse”)

Manufactures underwater electrical interconnection  systems
    for harsh environments.

December 31, 2007

100%

San Diego, CA

$16.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Asset

$

35.0

Storm Products Co. (“Storm”)

Supplies custom, high-reliability bulk wire and cable
    assemblies to a number of markets, including energy
    exploration, environmental monitoring and industrial  equipment.
    Also provides coax microwave cable and  interconnect products
    primarily to defense customers  for radar, electronic warfare
    and communications  applications.

December 31, 2007

100%

Dallas, TX

Woodridge, IL

$45.7 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

Stock

47.7

SG Brown Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary TSS
    International Limited (“TSS”)

Designs and manufactures inertial sensing, gyrocompass
    navigation and subsea pipe and cable detection systems for
    offshore energy, oceanographic and military marine markets.

January 31, 2008

100%

Watford, United

Kingdom

£12.0 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2007

Stock

54.8

Judson Technologies, LLC (“Judson”)

Manufactures high performance infrared detectors utilizing a
    wide variety of materials such as Mercury Cadmium Telluride
    (HgCdTe), Indium Antimonide (InSb), and Indium Gallium Arsenide
    (InGaAs), as well as tactical dewar and cooler assemblies and
    other specialized standard products for military, space,
    industrial and scientific applications.

February 1, 2008

100%

Montgomeryville,

PA

$13.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2006

Asset

27.0

Webb Research Corp. (“Webb”)

Manufacturer of autonomous underwater gliding vehicles and
    autonomous profiling drifters and floats.

July 7, 2008

100%

East Falmouth, MA

$12.2 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Asset

24.3

Defense business of Filtronic PLC (“Filtronic”)

Provides customized microwave subassemblies and integrated
    subsystems to the global defense industry.

August 15, 2008

100%

Shipley, United

Kingdom

£14.5 million for its

fiscal year ended

May 31, 2008

Stock

24.1

Cormon Limited and Cormon Technology Limited
    (“Cormon”)

Designs and manufactures subsea and surface sand and
    corrosion sensors, as well as flow integrity monitoring systems,
    used in oil and gas production systems.

October 16, 2008

100%

Lancing, United

Kingdom

£6.8 million for its

fiscal year ended

March 31, 2008

Stock

20.9

Odom Hydrographic Systems, Inc. (“Odom”)

Designs and manufactures hydrographic survey instrumentation
    used in port survey, dredging, offshore energy and other
    applications.

December 19, 2008

100%

Baton Rouge, LA

$10.9 million for its

fiscal year ended

September 30, 2008

Stock

7.0

Demo Systems LLC (“Demo”)

Designs and manufactures aircraft data loading equipment,
    flight line maintenance terminals, and data distribution
    software used by commercial airlines, the U.S. military and
    aircraft manufacturers.

December 24, 2008

100%

Moorpark, CA

$7.3 million for its

fiscal year ended

December 31, 2007

Asset

5.3

1)

Each of the acquisitions is part of the Instrumentation segment
    except the Optimum, Intelek, Storm, Judson, Filtronic and Demo
    acquisitions. Storm, Filtronic and Demo are part of the
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. Intelek is part of
    the Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment, except for the
    CML division of Intelek which is part of the Engineered Systems
    segment. Optimum and Judson are part of the Digital Imaging
    segment.



2)

The purchase price represents the contractual consideration for
    the acquired business, net of cash acquired, including certain
    acquisition transaction costs, paid as of January 2, 2011.

3)

In 2010, we acquired a 16.3% interest in Optical Alchemy, Inc.
    (“Optical Alchemy”), a designer and manufacturer of
    ultra-light electro optical gimbal system for $4.6 million.
    In the fourth quarter of 2010, we made an additional
    $3.0 million non-voting preferred stock investment in
    Optical Alchemy. Also in 2010, we made a scheduled payment for a
    prior acquisition of $0.3 million. In 2009, we made
    scheduled payments of $0.5 million related to two prior
    acquisitions, and received a purchase price adjustment of
    $0.3 million for the Cormon acquisition. In 2009, we also
    purchased the remaining minority ownership in ODI for
    $25.5 million and we purchased the assets of a marine
    sensor product line for a payment of $1.4 million. In 2008,
    we purchased an additional minority ownership in ODI for
    $38.5 million and made a scheduled payment of
    $0.3 million related to a prior acquisition.

The unaudited pro forma information for fiscal year 2008 set
    forth below gives effect to the nine acquisitions made in fiscal
    year 2008 as if they had been acquired at the beginning of
    fiscal year 2008 and includes the effect of estimated
    amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets,
    increased depreciation expense for fixed assets, as well as
    increased interest expense on acquisition debt. This pro forma
    financial information is presented for informational purposes
    only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of
    operations that actually would have resulted had the acquisition
    been in effect at the beginning of the respective period. In
    addition, the pro forma results are not intended to be a
    projection of future results and do not reflect any operating
    efficiencies or cost savings that might be achievable.


(unaudited in millions,

except per-share amounts)

Sales

$

1,771.6

Net income from continuing operations

$

114.2

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies

$

108.9

Basic earnings per common share — continuing operations

$

3.22

Basic earnings per common share — attributable to
    Teledyne Technologies

$

3.07

Diluted earning per common share — continuing
    operations

$

3.13

Diluted earning per common share — attributable to
    Teledyne Technologies

$

2.98

The primary reasons for the above acquisitions was to strengthen
    and expand our core businesses through adding complementary
    product and service offerings, allowing greater integrated
    products and services, enhancing our technical capabilities or
    increasing our addressable markets. The significant factors that
    resulted in recognition of goodwill were: (a) the purchase
    price was based on cash flow and return on capital projections
    assuming integration with our businesses and (b) the
    calculation of the fair value of tangible and intangible assets
    acquired that qualified for recognition.

Teledyne’s goodwill was $546.3 million at
    January 2, 2011, and $501.5 million at January 3,
    2010. Teledyne’s acquired intangible assets were
    $113.9 million at January 2, 2011, and
    $109.6 million at January 3, 2010. The increase in
    goodwill reflected current year acquisitions. The increase in
    acquired intangible assets primarily reflected current year
    acquisitions, partially offset by amortization.



The following tables show the purchase price, goodwill acquired
    and intangible assets acquired for the acquisitions made in
    fiscal 2010 and 2008 (in millions):

Fiscal year 2010

Acquired

Purchase

Goodwill

Intangible

Acquisition Date

Name

Price(a)

Acquired

Assets

June 7, 2010

Optimum

$

5.7

$

4.3

$

1.9

July 26, 2010

Intelek

43.5

34.0

15.3

September 20, 2010

Gavia

10.8

8.1

2.3

$

60.0

$

46.4

$

19.5

(a)

includes transaction costs that are expensed under current
    accounting guidance.

Fiscal year 2008

Acquired

Purchase

Goodwill

Intangible

Acquisition Date

Name

Price(a)

Acquired

Assets

December 31, 2007

Impulse

$

35.0

$

15.3

$

16.2

December 31, 2007

Storm

47.7

31.4

10.0

January 31, 2008

TSS

54.8

28.6

23.0

February 1, 2008

Judson

27.0

13.9

7.9

July 7, 2008

Webb

24.3

13.6

8.1

August 15, 2008

Filtronic

24.1

9.8

2.8

October 16, 2008

Cormon

20.9

11.9

8.3

December 19, 2008

Odom

7.0

4.5

2.3

December 24, 2008

Demo

5.3

4.0

1.0

$

246.1

$

133.0

$

79.6

(a)

includes transaction costs that were capitalized as part of the
    purchase price.

The following is a summary at the acquisition date of the
    estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities
    assumed for the acquisitions made in 2010 and 2008 (in millions):



Current assets, excluding cash acquired

$

18.4

$

61.6

Property, plant equipment

16.5

17.8

Goodwill

46.4

133.0

Intangible assets

19.5

79.6

Total assets acquired

100.8

292.0

Current liabilities, including short-term debt

18.8

34.1

Other long-term liabilities

25.0

11.8

Total liabilities assumed

43.8

45.9

Purchase price, net of cash acquired

$

57.0

$

246.1



The following table summarizes the intangible assets acquired as
    part of the acquisitions made in 2010 and 2008 (dollars in
    millions):



Weighted

Weighted

average

average

Intangible

useful life in

Intangible

useful life in

Assets

years

Assets

years

Intangibles assets not subject to amortization:

Goodwill

$

46.4

n/a

$

133.0

n/a

Trademarks

$

3.2

n/a

$

23.7

n/a

Intangibles assets subject to amortization:

Proprietary Technology

$

9.2

6.4

$

31.3

8.4

Customer List/Relationships

6.3

7.2

21.9

7.2

Trademarks

—

—

0.1

0.2

Backlog

0.8

0.8

2.6

0.7

$

16.3

7.3

$

55.9

5.5

Goodwill resulting from the acquisitions made in fiscal 2010 and
    2008 will be deductible for tax purposes, except for the Gavia,
    Storm and Demo acquisitions.

The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying value
    of goodwill (in millions):

Aerospace

Digital

and Defense

Engineered

Instrumentation

Imaging

Electronics

Systems

Total

Balance at December 28, 2008

$

268.9

$

87.2

$

129.7

$

15.8

$

501.6

Current year acquisitions

1.0

—

—

—

1.0

Impact of foreign currency changes

1.6

—

0.2

—

1.8

Adjustment to prior year acquisitions(a)

(6.7

)

(1.6

)

5.4

—

(2.9

)

Balance at January 3, 2010

264.8

85.6

135.3

15.8

501.5

Current year acquisitions

8.1

4.3

27.0

7.0

46.4

Impact of foreign currency changes

(1.2

)

—

(0.3

)

—

(1.5

)

Adjustment to prior year acquisitions(b)

(0.1

)

—

—

—

(0.1

)

Balance at January 2, 2011

$

271.6

$

89.9

$

162.0

$

22.8

$

546.3

(a)

The adjustments to prior year acquisitions primarily related to
    final estimates of fair value for assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions
    completed prior to 2009.

(b)

The adjustments to prior year acquisitions primarily related to
    final estimates of fair value for assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed in connection with business acquisitions
    completed prior to 2010.



The following table summarizes the carrying value of other
    acquired intangible assets (in millions):



Gross

Net

Gross

Net

carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

carrying

Accumulated

Carrying

amount

amortization

Amount

amount

amortization

Amount

Other acquired intangible assets:

Proprietary Technology

$

79.5

$

33.4

$

46.1

$

70.7

$

25.0

$

45.7

Customer List/Relationships

44.5

17.6

26.9

38.4

12.8

25.6

Patents

0.7

0.5

0.2

0.7

0.5

0.2

Non-compete agreements

1.0

0.9

0.1

1.0

0.7

0.3

Trademarks

3.2

1.0

2.2

3.3

0.8

2.5

Backlog

7.7

7.5

0.2

7.0

7.0

—

Other acquired intangible assets subject to amortization

$

136.6

$

60.9

$

75.7

$

121.1

$

46.8

$

74.3

Other acquired intangible assets not subject to amortization

Trademarks

38.2

—

38.2

35.3

—

35.3

Total other acquired intangible

$

174.8

$

60.9

$

113.9

$

156.4

$

46.8

$

109.6

Amortizable other intangible assets are amortized on a
    straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives ranging
    from one to 20 years. The Company recorded
    $14.1 million and $12.4 million in amortization
    expense in 2010 and 2009, respectively, for other acquired
    intangible assets. The expected future amortization expense for
    the next five years is as follows (in millions):
    2011 — $14.3; 2012 — $12.8; 2013 —
    $11.4; 2014 — $11.2; 2015 — $9.8.

The estimated remaining useful lives by asset category as of
    January 2, 2011, are as follows:

Weighted

average

remaining

useful life

Intangibles subject to amortization

in years

Proprietary Technology

5.2

Customer List/Relationships

5.3

Patents

3.6

Non-compete agreements

1.0

Backlog

1.7

Trademarks

10.6

Total intangibles subject to amortization

5.3

Note 4.  Financial
    Instruments

The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate
    fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments.
    Teledyne estimates the fair value of its long-term debt based on
    the quoted market prices for debt of similar rating and similar
    maturity and at comparable interest rates. The estimated fair
    value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at January 2, 2011,
    approximated the carrying value of $250.0 million. The
    estimated fair value of Teledyne’s long-term debt at
    January 3, 2010, approximated the carrying value of
    $240.0 million. The estimated fair value of Teledyne’s
    long-term debt at December 28, 2008, approximated the
    carrying value of $326.0 million.

The carrying value of other on-balance-sheet financial
    instruments approximates fair value, and the cost, if any, to
    terminate off-balance sheet financial instruments (primarily
    letters of credit) is not significant.



Note 5.  Accounts
    Receivable

Accounts receivable are summarized as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



U.S. Government and prime contractors contract receivables:

Billed receivables

$

21.6

$

20.9

Unbilled receivables

33.1

42.8

Commercial and other receivables

203.0

167.3

257.7

231.0

Reserve for doubtful accounts

(2.9

)

(2.3

)

Total accounts receivable, net

$

254.8

$

228.7

The billed contract receivables from the U.S. Government
    and prime contractors contain $17.6 million and
    $14.1 million at January 2, 2011 and January 3,
    2010, respectively, due to long-term contracts. The unbilled
    contract receivables from the U.S. Government and prime
    contractors contain $26.4 million and $31.1 million at
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, respectively.

Unbilled contract receivables represent accumulated costs and
    profits earned but not yet billed to customers. The Company
    believes that substantially all such amounts will be billed and
    collected within one year.

Note 6.  Inventories

Inventories consisted of the following (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Raw materials and supplies

$

90.6

$

77.3

Work in process

97.8

99.2

Finished goods

18.3

12.9

Total inventories at cost, net

206.7

189.4

LIFO reserve

(16.5

)

(15.7

)

Progress payments

(17.9

)

(8.9

)

Total inventories, net

$

172.3

$

164.8

Inventories at cost determined on the

last-in,

first-out method were $98.9 million at January 2,
    2011, and $92.5 million at January 3, 2010. The
    remainder of the inventories using average cost or the

first-in,

first-out methods, were $107.8 million at January 2,
    2011, and $96.9 million at January 3, 2010.

The Company recorded LIFO expense of $0.8 million in 2010,
    LIFO income of $2.2 million in 2009 and LIFO income of
    $.01 million in 2008.

Total inventories at current cost were net of reserves for
    excess, slow moving and obsolete inventory of $27.2 million
    and $26.5 million at January 2, 2011, and
    January 3, 2010, respectively.

Inventories, before progress payments, related to long-term
    contracts were $27.8 million and $20.8 million at
    January 2, 2011, and January 3, 2010, respectively.
    Progress payments related to long-term contracts were
    $1.0 million and $1.5 million at January 2, 2011
    and January 3, 2010, respectively. Under the contractual
    arrangements by which progress payments are received, the
    customer has an ownership right in the inventories associated
    with specific contracts.



Note 7.  Supplemental
    Balance Sheet Information

Property, plant and equipment were as follows (in millions):

Balance at year-end



Land

$

22.3

$

21.3

Buildings

122.0

100.2

Equipment and software

313.1

301.9

457.4

423.4

Accumulated depreciation and amortization

(254.0

)

(235.5

)

Total property, plant and equipment, net

$

203.4

$

187.9

Other long-term assets included amounts related to deferred
    compensation of $31.9 million and $26.7 million at
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, respectively.
    Accrued liabilities included salaries and wages and other
    related compensation reserves of $87.2 million and
    $79.4 million at January 2, 2011 and January 3,
    2010, respectively. Accrued liabilities also included customer
    related deposits and credits of $28.6 million and
    $30.6 million at January 2, 2011 and January 3,
    2010, respectively. Accrued liabilities also included warranty
    reserves, commission accruals and professional fee accruals.
    Other long-term liabilities included deferred compensation
    liabilities of $31.9 million and $26.7 million at
    January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, respectively.
    Other long-term liabilities also included reserves for
    self-insurance, environmental liabilities and the long-term
    portion of compensation reserves.

Note 8.  Stockholders’
    Equity

The following is an analysis of Teledyne’s common stock
    share activity:

Balance, December 30, 2007

35,150,117

Stock options exercised and other

776,107

Balance, December 28, 2008

35,926,224

Stock options exercised and other

152,253

Balance, January 3, 2010

36,078,477

Stock options exercised and other

284,895

Balance, January 2, 2011

36,363,372

Shares issued in all three fiscal years include stock options
    exercised as well as shares issued under certain compensation
    plans.

Preferred
    Stock

Authorized preferred stock may be issued with designations,
    powers and preferences designated by the Board of Directors.
    There were no shares of preferred stock issued or outstanding in
    2010, 2009 or 2008.

Stock
    Incentive Plan

Teledyne has long-term incentive plans which provide its Board
    of Directors the flexibility to grant restricted stock,
    performance shares, non-qualified stock options, incentive stock
    options and stock appreciation rights to officers and employees
    of Teledyne. Stock options become exercisable in one-third
    increments on the first, second and third anniversary of the
    grant and have a maximum 10 year life.

The valuation methodologies and assumptions in estimating the
    fair value of stock options granted in 2010 were similar to
    those used in estimating the fair value of stock options granted
    in 2009 and 2008. Stock option compensation expense is recorded
    on a straight line basis over the appropriate vesting period,
    generally three years.



The Company recorded $4.7 million, $5.2 million, and
    $7.2 million for stock option expense, for 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. The Company issues shares of common stock
    upon the exercise of stock options.

The Company used a combination of its historical stock price
    volatility and the volatility of exchange traded options on the
    Company stock to compute the expected volatility for purposes of
    valuing stock options issued. The period used for the historical
    stock price corresponded to the expected term of the options and
    was between five and six years. The period used for the exchange
    traded options extended to the longest-dated options publicly
    available, generally six to nine months. The expected dividend
    yield is based on Teledyne’s practice of not paying
    dividends. The risk-free rate of return is based on the yield of
    U.S. Treasury Strips with terms equal to the expected life
    of the option as of the grant date. The expected life in years
    is based on historical actual stock option exercise experience.
    The following assumptions were used in the valuation of stock
    options granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008:

For the year




Expected dividend yield

—

—

—

Expected volatility

35.3

%

38.8

%

34.7

%

Risk-free interest rate

2.4

%

2.1

%

3.3

%

Expected lives

6.0

5.6

5.6

Based on the assumptions in the table above, the grant date fair
    value of stock options granted in 2010, 2009 and 2008 was
    $16.44, $10.02 and $19.35, respectively.

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s employee stock
    option plans are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

2,249,050

$

30.40

2,339,970

$

30.39

2,702,157

$

24.71

Granted

433,094

$

42.09

—

$

—

356,298

$

50.81

Exercised

(179,747

)

$

20.34

(76,517

)

$

12.83

(693,197

)

$

18.66

Canceled or expired

(43,601

)

$

37.72

(14,403

)

$

28.04

(25,288

)

$

31.91

Ending balance

2,458,796

$

33.07

2,249,050

$

30.40

2,339,970

$

30.39

Options exercisable at year-end

1,939,785

$

30.19

1,879,554

$

27.29

1,513,815

$

23.39

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    January 2, 2011 under the employee stock option plans:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$13.45-$20.00

621,210

$

16.66

1.9

621,210

$

16.66

$20.01-$30.00

300,858

$

26.99

4.2

300,858

$

26.99

$30.01-$40.00

796,421

$

36.23

5.7

796,089

$

36.23

$40.01-$50.00

418,493

$

42.11

9.1

2,000

$

45.41

$50.01-$59.05

321,814

$

50.85

7.1

219,628

$

50.85

2,458,796

$

33.07

5.3

1,939,785

$

30.19



Non-Employee
    Director Stock Compensation Plan

Teledyne also sponsors a stock plan for non-employee directors
    pursuant to which non-employee directors receive annual stock
    options and may receive stock or stock options in lieu of their
    respective retainer and meeting fees. The options become
    exercisable one year after issuance and have a maximum
    10 year life.

Stock option transactions for Teledyne’s non-employee
    director stock option plan are summarized as follows:




Weighted

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Average

Exercise

Exercise

Exercise

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Shares

Price

Beginning balance

418,817

$

26.66

392,002

$

25.53

348,266

$

22.44

Granted

41,364

$

39.53

42,483

$

30.66

43,736

$

50.15

Exercised

(17,356

)

$

14.55

(15,668

)

$

9.26

—

$

—

Canceled or expired

(2,000

)

$

14.75

—

$

—

—

$

—

Ending balance

440,825

$

28.23

418,817

$

26.66

392,002

$

25.53

Options exercisable at year-end

399,461

$

27.06

378,974

$

26.24

348,266

$

22.44

The following table provides certain information with respect to
    stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable at
    January 2, 2011 under the non-employee director stock
    option plan:

Stock Options Outstanding

Stock Options Exercisable

Weighted

Weighted

Average

Average

Exercise

Remaining

Exercise

Range of Exercise Prices

Shares

Price

Life

Shares

Price

$8.37-$10.00

19,108

$

9.21

1.9

19,108

$

9.21

$10.01-$20.00

156,363

$

15.29

2.4

156,363

$

15.29

$20.01-$30.00

81,102

$

26.19

5.8

71,738

$

26.14

$30.01-$40.00

78,252

$

34.40

7.0

78,252

$

34.40

$40.01-$50.00

70,000

$

44.66

7.7

38,000

$

45.79

$50.01-$53.76

36,000

$

53.76

7.4

36,000

$

53.76

440,825

$

28.23

5.1

399,461

$

27.06

The total pretax intrinsic value of options exercised during
    2010 and 2009 (which is the amount by which the stock price
    exceeded the exercise price of the options on the date of
    exercise) was $4.3 million and $1.9 million,
    respectively. At January 2, 2011, the intrinsic value of
    stock options outstanding was $33.7 million and the
    intrinsic value of stock options exercisable was
    $33.5 million. During 2010 and 2009, the amount of cash
    received from the exercise of stock options was
    $3.9 million and $1.1 million, respectively.

At January 2, 2011, there was $4.8 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock
    option awards which is expected to be recognized over a
    weighted-average period of 1.4 years.

Performance
    Share Plan

Teledyne’s Performance Share Plan (“PSP”)
    provides grants of performance share units, which key officers
    and executives may earn if Teledyne meets specified performance
    objectives over a three-year period. Awards are payable in cash
    and shares of Teledyne common stock. Awards are generally paid
    to the participants in three annual installments after the end
    of the performance cycle so long as they remain employed by
    Teledyne (with exceptions for retirement, disability and death).



In January 2006, the performance cycle for the three-year period
    ending December 28, 2008 was set. Based on the performance
    over the three-year period, 53,834 shares were issued in
    2009, 44,751 shares were issued in February 2010 and
    47,589 shares were issued in February 2011.

In January 2009, the performance cycle for the three-year period
    ending January 1, 2012 was set. Based on the estimated
    performance over the three-year period, an aggregate of
    104,810 shares are expected to be issued in three equal
    installments during 2012, 2013 and 2014.

The calculated expense for each plan year was based on the
    expected cash payout and the expected shares to be issued,
    valued at the share price at the inception of the performance
    cycle, except for the shares that can be issued based on a
    market comparison. The expected expense for these shares was
    calculated using a Monte-Carlo type simulation which takes into
    consideration several factors including volatility, risk free
    interest rates and correlation of Teledyne’s stock price
    with the comparator, the Russell 2000 Index. No adjustment to
    the calculated expense for the shares issued based on a market
    based comparison will be made regardless of the actual
    performance. The Company recorded $2.6 million,
    $2.6 million and $3.9 million in compensation expense
    related to the PSP program for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. At January 2, 2011 based on estimated
    performance over the three year period, there was
    $2.6 million in unrecognized compensation cost related to
    the PSP program.

Restricted
    Stock Award Program

Under Teledyne’s restricted stock award program selected
    officers and key executives receive a grant of stock equal to
    30% of the participant’s annual base salary at the date of
    grant. The Restricted Stock is subject to transfer and
    forfeiture restrictions during an applicable “restricted
    period”. The restrictions have both time-based and
    performance-based components. The restricted period expires (and
    the restrictions lapse) on the third anniversary of the date of
    grant, subject to the achievement of stated performance
    objectives over a specified three-year performance period. If
    employment is terminated (other than via death, retirement or
    disability) during the restricted period, stock is forfeited.
    Under the 2007 to 2009 and 2008 to 2010 and 2009 to 2011
    performance periods an aggregate of 109,002 shares of
    restricted stock were issued and outstanding at year-end 2010.

The following table summarizes Teledyne’s restricted stock
    activity:

Weighted

average

fair value

Shares

per share

Balance, December 30, 2007

112,305

$

25.76

Granted

27,913

$

37.89

Issued

(39,270

)

$

28.54

Balance, December 28, 2008

100,948

$

28.04

Granted

39,204

$

30.97

Issued

(37,100

)

$

21.24

Forfeited/Canceled

(1,712

)

$

21.24

Balance, January 3, 2010

101,340

$

31.77

Granted

41,885

$

29.62

Issued

(31,307

)

$

27.71

Forfeited/Canceled

(2,916

)

$

27.71

Balance, January 2, 2011

109,002

$

32.22

The calculated expense for each plan year is based on a
    Monte-Carlo type simulation which takes into consideration
    several factors including volatility, risk free interest rates
    and the correlation of Teledyne’s stock price with the
    comparator, the Russell 2000 Index. No adjustment to the
    calculated expense will be made



regardless of actual performance. The Company recorded
    $1.2 million, $1.1 million and $0.9 million in
    compensation expense related to the restricted stock award
    program for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At
    January 2, 2011, there was $1.2 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards
    which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average
    period of 1.3 years.

Note 9.  Related
    Party Transactions

The Company’s Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer is a director of The Bank of New York Mellon
    Corporation, as is one of our other directors. On
    February 8, 2011, our Chairman notified The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation that he plans to retire as a director on
    April 12, 2011. The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation is
    the successor to Mellon Financial Corporation following its
    merger with The Bank of New York in 2007. Another of the
    Company’s directors was a former chief executive officer
    and director of Mellon Financial Corporation. The Bank of New
    York Mellon Corporation is one of 13 lenders under the
    Company’s prior $590.0 million credit facility, having
    committed up to $90.0 million under the facility. The Bank
    of New York Mellon Corporation is one of 12 lenders under our
    new $550.0 million credit facility, having committed up to
    $45.0 million under the facility. The Bank of New York
    Mellon Corporation also provides cash management services,
    serves as trustee for the Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Pension Plan and, through its subsidiaries and affiliates,
    provides asset management and transition management services for
    the Pension Plan. Mellon Investor Services LLC, dba BNY
    Mellon Shareowner Services, serves as our transfer agent and
    registrar, as well as handles administration of our stock
    options. We engaged BNY Mellon Shareowner Services to help us
    solicit proxies in connection with our annual meetings. Until
    its expiration in November 2009, BNY Mellon Shareowner Services
    was the rights agent under our Shareholder Rights Plan.

Note 10.  Long-Term
    Debt

At January 2, 2011, Teledyne had $250.0 million in
    long-term debt outstanding. At January 3, 2010, Teledyne
    had $240.0 million in long-term debt outstanding.

On September 15, 2010 the Company issued
    $250.0 million in aggregate principal amount of private
    placement Senior Notes at par. The notes consist of
    $75.0 million of 4.04% Senior Notes due
    September 15, 2015, $100.0 million of
    4.74% Senior Notes due September 15, 2017 and
    $75.0 million of 5.30% Senior Notes due
    September 15, 2020. The interest rates for the notes were
    determined on April 14, 2010. The Company used the proceeds
    of the private placement Senior Notes to pay down amounts
    outstanding under the Company’s then existing
    $590.0 million credit facility.

In February 2008, Teledyne Technologies entered into a First
    Amendment to its $400.0 million Amended and Restated Credit
    Agreement dated as of July 14, 2006. The amended and
    restated credit facility had lender commitments totaling
    $590.0 million and was set to expire on July 14, 2011.
    Available capacity under the $590.0 million credit facility
    was $589.3 million at January 2, 2011 which can be
    utilized, as needed, for daily operating and periodic cash
    needs, including acquisitions. Borrowings under the credit
    facility are at variable rates which are at our option tied to a
    eurodollar base rate equal to LIBOR (London Interbank Offered
    Rate) plus an applicable rate or a base rate as defined in our
    credit agreement. LIBOR based loans under the facility typically
    have terms of one, two, three or six months and the interest
    rate for each such loan is subject to change if the loan is
    continued or converted following the applicable maturity date.
    Base rate loans have interest rates that primarily fluctuate
    with changes in the prime rate. Interest rates are also subject
    to change based on our debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
    depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) ratio. Borrowings under
    the credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate
    based on either a defined base rate or the LIBOR, plus
    applicable margins. The credit agreement also provides for
    facility fees that vary between 0.10% and 0.25% of the credit
    line, depending on our consolidated leverage ratio as calculated
    from time to time. The credit agreement requires the Company to
    comply with various financial and operating covenants, including
    maintaining certain consolidated leverage and interest coverage
    ratios, as well as minimum net worth levels and limits on
    acquired debt. At January 3, 2010, the Company was in
    compliance with these covenants. We also have a
    $5.0 million uncommitted credit line which permits credit
    extensions up to $5.0 million plus an incremental
    $6.5 million solely for standby letters of credit. There
    were no outstanding funding advances



under the uncommitted credit line at January 2, 2011. Total
    debt at year-end 2010 includes $250.0 million in Senior
    Notes and no debt outstanding under the $590.0 million
    credit facility. The Company also has $17.3 million
    outstanding under capital leases, of which $2.0 million is
    current. At year-end 2010, Teledyne had $12.2 million in
    outstanding letters of credit.

On February 25, 2011, we refinanced the $590.0 million
    credit facility by terminating the facility and entering into a
    new facility that has lender commitments totaling
    $550.0 million. The new facility has a termination date of
    February 25, 2016. As of February 25, 2011 we had
    $273.0 million outstanding on the new facility. The new
    facility requires the Company to comply with various financial
    and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios. Excluding
    interest and fees, no payments are due under the
    $550.0 million facility until it matures. Borrowings under
    our credit facility are at variable rates which are, at our
    option, tied to a Eurocurrency rate equal to LIBOR (London
    Interbank Offered Rate) plus an applicable rate or a base rate
    as defined in our credit agreement. Eurocurrency rate loans may
    be denominated in U.S. dollars or an alternative currency as
    defined in the agreement. Eurocurrency or LIBOR based loans
    under the facility typically have terms of one, two, three or
    six months and the interest rate for each such loan is subject
    to change if the loan is continued or converted following the
    applicable maturity date. Base rate loans have interest rates
    that primarily fluctuate with changes in the prime rate.
    Interest rates are also subject to change based on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as defined in the credit agreement.
    The credit agreement also provides for facility fees that vary
    between 0.20% and 0.45% of the credit line, depending on our
    consolidated leverage ratio as calculated from time to time.

In the first and second quarters of 2010, Teledyne entered into
    cash flow hedges of forecasted interest payments associated with
    the then anticipated issuance of fixed rate debt. The objective
    of these cash flow hedges was to protect against the risk of
    changes in the interest payments attributable to changes in the
    designated benchmark, which is the LIBOR interest rate leading
    up to the fixed rate on the anticipated issuance of fixed rate
    debt being locked. The notional amount of the debt hedged was
    $150.0 million. In the second quarter, concurrent with the
    interest rates being determined on the fixed rate debt, Teledyne
    terminated the cash flow hedges for a total payment of
    $0.6 million. Since the cash flow hedges were considered
    effective, changes in the fair value of the hedge contract as of
    the termination date were deferred in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss. Amounts deferred in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss will be reclassified to interest expense over
    the same period of time that interest expense is recognized on
    the borrowings beginning September 15, 2010. As of
    January 2, 2011, the remaining unamortized loss of
    $0.6 million was included in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss in the stockholders’ equity section of
    the balance sheet.

Total interest expense including credit facility fees and other
    bank charges was $6.9 million in 2010, $5.1 million in
    2009 and $11.7 million in 2008.

At January 2, 2011 and January 3, 2010, long-term debt
    consisted of the following (in millions):



4.04% Senior Notes due September 2015

$

75.0

$

—

4.74% Senior Notes due September 2017

100.0

—

5.30% Senior Notes due September 2020

75.0

—

$590.0 million revolving credit facility, weighted average
    rate of 0.9% at January 3, 2010

—

240.0

Total long-term debt

$

250.0

$

240.0

No minimum principal payments on long-term debt are required
    until September 2015.



Note 11.  Income
    Taxes

Provision (benefit) for income taxes was as follows (in
    millions):




Current

Federal

$

36.8

$

20.5

$

34.9

State

(1.8

)

6.6

7.7

Foreign

(1.4

)

3.5

4.2

Total current

33.6

30.6

46.8

Deferred

Federal

16.1

16.2

18.6

State

3.9

3.2

3.7

Total deferrred

20.0

19.4

22.3

Provision for income taxes

$

53.6

$

50.0

$

69.1

Income before income taxes included income from domestic
    operations of $168.1 million for 2010, $148.6 million
    for 2009 and $167.5 million for 2008. In 2010, 2009 and
    2008, Teledyne recognized previously unrecognized tax benefits
    of $1.3 million, $1.2 million and $0.8 million,
    respectively. These were recognized due to the expiration of
    applicable statutes of limitations. The following is a
    reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the
    actual effective income tax rate:




U.S. federal statutory tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes, net of federal benefit

3.8

4.2

4.2

Reseach and development tax credits

(6.7

)

(9.1

)

(1.2

)

Qualified production activity deduction

(1.8

)

(0.6

)

(1.2

)

Other

0.6

0.5

—

Effective income tax rate

30.9

%

30.0

%

36.8

%

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences in the
    recognition of income and expense for financial and income tax
    reporting purposes, and differences between the fair value of
    assets acquired in business combinations accounted for as
    purchases for financial reporting purposes and their
    corresponding tax bases. Deferred income taxes represent future
    tax benefits or costs to be recognized when those temporary
    differences reverse. A valuation allowance of $0.3 million,
    $0.4 million and $0.6 million existed against deferred
    tax assets for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Teledyne had net deferred tax assets of $22.2 million at
    the end of 2010 and $43.8 million at the end of 2009. The
    amount of future taxable income required to realize the deferred
    tax assets was $58.0 million and $111.9 million,
    respectively.



The categories of assets and liabilities that have resulted in
    differences in the timing of the recognition of income and
    expense were as follows (in millions):



Deferred income tax assets:

Current

Reserves

$

11.0

$

11.4

Inventory valuation

8.8

6.2

Accrued vacation

10.2

9.2

Deferred compensation and other benefits plans

0.9

1.1

Intangible amortization

0.9

0.1

Long-term

Postretirement benefits other than pensions

7.2

7.0

Reserves

8.9

4.6

Deferred compensaton and other benefit plans

29.5

44.4

Other items

1.5

2.9

Total deferred income tax assets

78.9

86.9

Deferred income tax liabilities:

Current

Other items

3.4

1.8

Long-term

Property, plant and equipment differences

16.3

9.7

Intangible amortization

34.0

29.4

Other items

3.0

2.2

Total deferred income tax liabilities

56.7

43.1

Net deferred income tax assets

$

22.2

$

43.8

Additional paid in capital was credited $1.7 million in
    2010, $0.8 million in 2009 and $10.3 million in 2008
    for the tax benefit resulting from the exercise of stock options.

The following presents a rollforward of our unrecognized tax
    benefits (in millions):



Unrecognized

Unrecognized

Tax Benefits

Interest

Tax Benefits

Interest

Beginning of year

$

25.2

$

1.0

$

36.8

$

0.8

Increase (decrease) in prior year tax positions

(3.5

)

0.7

(3.2

)

0.4

Increase for tax positions taken during the current period

0.6

—

5.0

—

Reduction related to settlements with taxing authorities

(9.2

)

(0.4

)

(12.3

)

—

Reduction related to lapse of the statue of limitations

(3.0

)

(0.5

)

(1.1

)

(0.2

)

End of year

$

10.1

$

0.8

$

25.2

$

1.0

We recognized interest related to unrecognized tax benefits of
    $0.9 million and $0.9 million within the provision for
    income taxes in our statements of operations for fiscal year
    2010 and 2009, respectively. Interest in the amount of
    $0.8 million was recognized in the 2010 statement of
    financial position. As of January 2, 2011, we estimated
    that the entire balance of unrecognized tax benefits, if
    resolved in our favor, would



positively impact the effective tax rate and, therefore, be
    recognized as additional tax benefits in our income statement.

We file income tax returns in the United States federal
    jurisdiction and in various states and foreign jurisdictions.
    The Company has substantially concluded on all U.S. federal
    and California income tax matters for all years through 2006.
    Substantially all other material state and local and foreign
    income tax matters have been concluded for years through 2005.

The Company anticipates the total unrecognized tax benefit for
    various federal and state tax items may be reduced by
    $2.4 million due to the expiration of statutes of
    limitation for various federal and state tax issues in the next
    12 months.

Note 12.  Pension
    Plans and Postretirement Benefits

Pension
    Plans

Prior to the spin-off, certain Teledyne’s employees
    participated in the defined benefit plan sponsored by ATI.
    Benefits under the defined benefit plan are generally based on
    years of service

and/or

final
    average pay. ATI funded the pension plan in accordance with the
    requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of
    1974, as amended, and the Internal Revenue Code.

As of the spin-off date, Teledyne assumed the existing defined
    benefit plan obligations for all of Teledyne’s employees,
    both active and inactive, at its companies that perform
    government contract work and for Teledyne’s active
    employees at its companies that do not perform government
    contract work. As of January 1, 2004, non-union new hires
    participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan as opposed
    to the Company’s existing defined benefit plan. The plan
    was closed to all union new hires as of February 2007.

In connection with the acquisition of Intelek, the Company
    assumed responsibility for a defined benefit pension plan based
    in the United Kingdom covering certain employees of Intelek. The
    plan was closed to new members in January 2000 and ceased
    further service accruals to members in September 2002. In 2010,
    the Company recorded $0.1 million in expense related to the
    plan.

Teledyne’s pension expense was $4.8 million in 2010 of
    which $9.6 million was recoverable in accordance with
    U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (“CAS”)
    from certain government contracts compared with pension expense
    of $21.4 million in 2009 of which $12.4 million was
    recoverable in accordance with CAS and pension expense of
    $9.0 million in 2008 of which $9.8 million was
    recoverable in accordance with CAS. These amounts do not include
    pension expense of $0.4 million in 2010, $1.1 million
    in 2009 and $0.6 million in 2008 now included as part of
    discontinued operations. Teledyne made pretax contributions to
    its pension plans of $37.0 million in 2010 and
    $117.0 million in 2009, prior to any recovery from the
    U.S. Government. The Company anticipates making total
    pretax contributions, before any recovery from the
    U.S. Government, of approximately $37.0 million to its
    pension plan in 2011 and expects to make an additional cash
    contribution of $32.0 million provided the sale of the
    former Aerospace Engines and Components segment is completed.

The Company’s contribution associated with 401(k) plans
    were $7.4 million, $7.4 million and $7.5 million,
    for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.



The following table sets forth the components of net period
    pension benefit expense for Teledyne’s defined benefit
    pension plans for 2010, 2009 and 2008 (in millions):

Pension Benefits

Pension Benefits -

-Domestic Plans

Foreign Plans





Service cost — benefits earned during the period

$

13.7

$

14.8

$

17.1

$

—

Interest cost on benefit obligation

40.6

40.1

38.4

0.7

Expected return on plan assets

(57.2

)

(48.6

)

(49.7

)

(0.6

)

Amortization of prior service cost

0.4

0.4

0.7

—

Recognized actuarial loss

7.7

15.8

3.1

—

Net periodic benefit expense

$

5.2

$

22.5

$

9.6

$

0.1

Less: expense attributable to discontinued operations

0.4

1.1

0.6

—

Net periodic benefit expense — continuing operations

$

4.8

$

21.4

$

9.0

$

0.1

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the
    defined benefit pension plans (in millions):

Pension Benefits -

Pension Benefits -

Domestic Plans

Foreign Plans




Changes in benefit obligation:

Benefit obligation — beginning of year

$

669.3

$

667.8

$

—

Service cost — benefits earned during the year

13.7

14.8

—

Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

40.6

40.1

0.7

Actuarial (gain) loss

35.1

(19.7

)

0.9

Benefits paid

(35.8

)

(33.7

)

(0.8

)

Other — foreign currency

—

—

0.1

Business Combination

—

—

30.2

Benefit obligation — end of year

$

722.9

$

669.3

$

31.1

Accumulated benefit obligation — end of year

$

678.1

$

633.2

$

31.1

The measurement date for the Company’s pension plans is
    December 31.

The following table presents the estimated future benefit
    payments for the Company’s pension and plans (in millions):

Domestic

Foreign

Plans

Plan


$

37.1

$

1.8


39.9

1.9


42.1

2.0


44.3

1.9


46.4

1.8

2016-2020

265.8

9.7

Total

$

475.6

$

19.1



The following tables set forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets
    for Teledyne’s defined benefit pension plans and the
    percentage of year-end market value by asset class (in millions):

Domestic Plans

Foreign Plan




Changes in plan assets:

Fair value of plan assets — beginning of year

$

584.5

$

436.0

$

—

Business combination

—

—

20.5

Actual return on plan assets

70.8

64.0

2.0

Employer contribution — defined benefit plan

37.0

117.0

8.1

Employer contribution — other benefit plan

1.1

1.2

—

Foreign currency changes

—

—

(0.1

)

Benefits paid

(35.8

)

(33.7

)

(0.8

)

Fair value of net plan assets — end of year

$

657.6

$

584.5

$

29.7

Foreign Plan

Domestic Plans

Plan Assets % to

Plan Assets % to Total

Total




Equity instruments


%


%


%

Fixed income instruments


%


%


%

Other


%

—

—

Total


%


%


%

The Company has an active management policy for a portion of its
    pension assets for the domestic pension plans. The investment
    policy includes a target allocation percentage of 70% in equity
    instruments and 30% in domestic fixed income instruments. The
    balance in equity instruments can range from 45% to 75% before
    rebalancing is required under the Company’s policy. The
    investment policy for the foreign plan is set by the Company
    along with the trustees of the foreign plan. The current
    long-term asset allocation target of the foreign plan is 60%
    equity instruments and 40% fixed income instruments and
    alternative investments.

The plan’s investments are stated at fair value. A total of
    $352.8 million in plan investments for the domestic pension
    plan are considered a level 1 fair value hierarchy and are
    valued at quoted market prices in active markets. A total of
    $303.3 million in plan investments for the domestic pension
    plan are considered a level 2 fair value hierarchy and are
    valued based on observable market data. The plan has no
    investments that would be considered a level 3 fair value
    hierarchy.

A total of $28.9 million in plan investments for the
    foreign pension plan are considered a level 1 fair value
    hierarchy and are valued at quoted market prices in active
    markets. A total of $0.8 million in plan investments for
    the foreign pension plan are considered a level 2 fair
    value hierarchy and are valued based on observable market data.
    The plan has no investments that would be considered a
    level 3 fair value hierarchy.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is reviewed
    annually, taking into consideration the Company’s asset
    allocation, historical returns on the types of assets held, and
    the current economic environment. We determined the discount
    rate based on a model which matches the timing and amount of
    expected benefit payments to maturities of quality bonds priced
    as of the pension plan measurement date. For some years, there
    were no bonds maturing. In these instances, we chose to estimate
    the missing bond by using bonds that have similar features as
    the prior year’s bond. The yields on the bonds are used to
    derive a discount rate for the liability.



The following assumptions were used to determine the benefit
    obligation and the net benefit cost:

Domestic Plans

Foreign Plan

For the year





Weighted average discount rate

6.25

%

6.25

%

6.00

%

5.60

%

Weighted average increase in future compensation levels

4.07

%

3.50

%

3.66

%

n/a

Expected weighted-average long-term rate of return

8.25

%

8.25

%

8.50

%

6.40

%

For its domestic pension plans the Company is projecting a
    long-term rate of return on plan assets of 8.25% in 2011. The
    discount rate used in determining the benefit obligations is
    expected to be 5.9% in 2011 and the expected weighted average
    increase in future compensation levels is 4.14%. For its foreign
    pension plan the Company is projecting a long-term rate of
    return on plan assets of 6.6% in 2011. The discount rate used in
    determining the benefit obligations is expected to be 5.4% in
    2011.

The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts
    recognized in Teledyne’s consolidated balance sheets for
    its pension plans at year end 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

Domestic Plans -

Foreign Plan -

Pension Benefits

Pension Benefits




Funded status

$

(65.3

)

$

(84.8

)

$

(1.3

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

1.4

1.8

—

Unrecognized net (gain) loss

275.6

261.8

(0.6

)

Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost

$

211.7

$

178.8

$

(1.9

)

Accrued pension obligation (long-term)

$

(60.7

)

$

(79.8

)

$

(1.4

)

Accrued pension obligation (short-term)

(1.5

)

(2.0

)

(0.1

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

277.0

263.6

(0.4

)

Other liabilities

(3.1

)

(3.0

)

—

Net amount recognized

$

211.7

$

178.8

$

(1.9

)

At year-end 2010 the Company had a $162.8 million non-cash
    reduction to stockholders’ equity and a long-term
    additional liability of $268.2 million related to the
    pension and postretirement plans. At year-end 2009, the Company
    had a $153.3 million non-cash reduction to
    stockholders’ equity and a long-term additional liability
    of $252.3 million related to the pension and postretirement
    plans. The adjustments to equity did not affect net income and
    are recorded net of deferred taxes.

At January 2, 2011, the amounts in the minimum liability
    adjustment that have not yet been recognized as components of
    net periodic benefit cost for the pension plans are: net loss
    $275.1 million and net prior service cost $1.4 million.

At January 2, 2011, the estimated amounts of the minimum
    liability adjustment that are expected to be recognized as
    components of net periodic benefit cost during 2011 for the
    pension plans are: net loss $15.4 million and net prior
    service cost $0.3 million.

Postretirement
    Plans

The Company sponsors several postretirement defined benefit
    plans covering certain salaried and hourly employees. The plans
    provide health care and life insurance benefits for certain
    eligible retirees.



The following table sets forth the components of net period
    postretirement benefit income/expense for Teledyne’s
    postretirement benefit plans for 2010, 2009 and 2008 (in
    millions):

Postretirement Benefits




Service cost — benefits earned during the period

$

—

$

0.1

$

0.1

Interest cost on benefit obligation

1.1

1.1

1.4

Amortization of prior service cost

(0.5

)

(0.5

)

(0.5

)

Recognized actuarial gain

(1.1

)

(1.3

)

(0.8

)

Net periodic benefit (income) expense

(0.5

)

(0.6

)

0.2

Less: expense attributable to discontinued operations

(0.5

)

(0.6

)

(0.7

)

Net periodic benefit income — continuing operations

$

—

$

—

$

0.9

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the
    postretirement benefit plans (in millions):

Postretirement Benefits



Changes in benefit obligation:

Benefit obligation — beginning of year

$

17.6

$

18.9

Service cost — benefits earned during the year

—

0.1

Interest cost on projected benefit obligation

1.1

1.1

Actuarial (gain) loss

1.4

(0.9

)

Benefits paid

(1.7

)

(1.6

)

Benefit obligation — end of year

$

18.4

$

17.6

The measurement date for the Company’s postretirement plans
    is December 31.

The following table presents the estimated future benefit
    payments for the Company’s postretirement plans (in
    millions):

Postretirement

Benefit Plan


$

1.8


1.8


1.8


1.7


1.7

2016-2020

7.6

Total

$

16.4



The following table sets forth the funded status and amounts
    recognized in Teledyne’s consolidated balance sheets for
    the postretirement plans at year end 2010 and 2009 (in millions):

Postretirement

Benefits



Funded status

$

(18.4

)

$

(17.6

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

(1.8

)

(2.3

)

Unrecognized net gain

(6.5

)

(9.0

)

Accrued benefit cost

$

(26.7

)

$

(28.9

)

Accrued postretirement benefits (long-term)

$

(16.5

)

$

(15.7

)

Accrued postretirement benefits (short-term)

(1.9

)

(1.9

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income

(8.3

)

(11.3

)

Net amount recognized

$

(26.7

)

$

(28.9

)

At January 2, 2011, the amounts in the minimum liability
    adjustment that have not yet been recognized as components of
    net periodic benefit income for the retiree medical plans are:
    net gain $6.5 million and net prior service cost
    $1.8 million. At January 2, 2011, the estimated
    amounts in the minimum liability expected to be recognized as
    components of net periodic benefit income during 2011 for the
    retiree medical plans are: net gain $0.9 million and net
    prior service cost $0.5 million.

The annual assumed rate of increase in the per capita cost of
    covered benefits (the health care cost trend rate) for health
    care plans is 8.0% in 2011 and was assumed to decrease to 5.0%
    by the year 2016 and remain at that level thereafter. Assumed
    health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the
    amounts reported for the health care plans. A one percentage
    point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
    result in an increase in the annual service and interest costs
    by less than $0.1 million for 2010 and would result in an
    increase in the postretirement benefit obligation by
    $1.0 million at January 2, 2011. A one percentage
    point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates would
    result in a decrease in the annual service and interest costs by
    less than $0.1 million for 2010 and would result in a
    decrease in the postretirement benefit obligation by
    $0.9 million at January 2, 2011.

Note 13.  Business
    Segments

Teledyne is a leading provider of sophisticated electronic
    components and subsystems, instrumentation, digital imaging and
    communications products, engineered systems and information
    technology services, as well as energy generation, energy
    storage and small propulsion products. Our customers include
    government agencies, aerospace prime contractors, energy
    exploration and production companies, major industrial
    companies, and airline companies.

In 2010, we realigned and changed the reporting structure of
    some of our reportable business units. Our former Electronics
    and Communications segment is now reporting as three segments:
    Instrumentation; Digital Imaging; and Aerospace and Defense
    Electronics. The businesses that comprised the Energy and Power
    Systems segment are now reported as part of the Aerospace and
    Defense Electronics and the Engineered Systems segments. The
    battery products business, with revenues of $15.5 million in
    2010, is now part of the Aerospace and Defense Electronics
    segment, and the energy systems and the turbine engine
    businesses, with combined revenues of $53.9 million in 2010, are
    now part of the Engineered Systems segment. We have restated our
    previously reported segment data to reflect this realignment and
    structure and the expected sale of the former Aerospace Engines
    and Components segment, now classified as a discontinued
    operation.

The Company has four reportable segments: Instrumentation;
    Digital Imaging; Aerospace and Defense Electronics; and
    Engineered Systems. The Company manages, evaluates and
    aggregates its operating segments for segment reporting purposes
    primarily on the basis of product and service type, production
    process, distribution methods, type of customer, management
    organization, sales growth potential and long-term



profitability. The Instrumentation segment provides monitoring
    and control instruments for marine, environmental, scientific,
    industrial and defense applications and harsh environmental
    interconnect products. The Digital Imaging segment includes our
    sponsored and centralized research laboratories benefiting
    government programs and businesses, as well as major development
    efforts for innovative digital imaging products for government
    and space applications. The Aerospace and Defense Electronics
    segment provides sophisticated electronic components and
    subsystems and communications products, including defense
    electronics, data acquisition and communications equipment for
    air transport and business aircraft and components and
    subsystems for wireless and satellite communications, as well as
    general aviation batteries. The Engineered Systems segment
    provides innovative systems engineering and integration,
    advanced technology application, software development and
    manufacturing solutions to space, military, environmental,
    energy, chemical, biological and nuclear systems and missile
    defense requirements. The Engineered Systems segment also
    designs and manufactures hydrogen generators, thermoelectric and
    fuel-cell based power sources and small turbine engines.

Segment operating profit includes other income and expense
    directly related to the segment, but excludes minority interest,
    interest income and expense, gains and losses on the disposition
    of assets, sublease rental income and non-revenue licensing and
    royalty income, domestic and foreign income taxes and corporate
    office expenses.

Identifiable assets are those assets used in the operations of
    the segments. Corporate assets primarily consist of cash and
    cash equivalents, deferred taxes, net pension assets/liabilities
    and other assets.

Information on the Company’s business segments was as
    follows (in millions):




Sales

Instrumentation

$

573.2

$

538.4

$

549.2

Digital Imaging

122.5

127.3

137.4

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

614.7

579.2

604.1

Engineered Systems

333.8

407.2

431.3

Total sales

$

1,644.2

$

1,652.1

$

1,722.0




Income before taxes

Instrumentation

$

113.9

$

95.5

$

102.9

Digital Imaging

5.2

11.8

14.6

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

57.8

60.1

68.7

Engineered Systems

30.4

31.3

42.0

Segment operating profit and other segment income

207.3

198.7

228.2

Corporate expense

(28.8

)

(27.3

)

(29.6

)

Interest and debt expense, net

(6.5

)

(4.8

)

(10.9

)

Other income (expense), net

1.6

(0.2

)

0.3

Income before taxes

$

173.6

$

166.4

$

188.0






Depreciation and amortization

Instrumentation

$

16.6

$

16.0

$

16.8

Digital Imaging and Instrumentation

9.3

9.6

10.0

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

16.0

14.0

15.5

Engineered Systems

3.1

2.7

2.6

Corporate

0.2

0.2

0.1

Total depreciation and amortization

$

45.2

$

42.5

$

45.0




Capital expenditures

Instrumentation

$

6.4

$

16.1

$

12.5

Digital Imaging

11.3

5.7

7.1

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

9.7

8.4

14.5

Engineered Systems

3.6

3.3

4.0

Corporate

—

—

0.1

Total capital expenditures

$

31.0

$

33.5

$

38.2




Identifiable assets

Instrumentation

$

575.0

$

541.5

$

563.6

Digital Imaging

192.0

179.8

187.9

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

460.7

415.2

439.8

Engineered Systems

106.9

92.8

114.8

Corporate

148.1

102.1

141.9

Discontinued operations

75.1

90.1

86.5

Total identifiable assets

$

1,557.8

$

1,421.5

$

1,534.5

Information on the Company’s sales to the
    U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime
    contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, were as
    follows (in millions):




Instrumentation

$

35.6

$

36.4

$

24.5

Digital Imaging

93.3

96.6

90.0

Aerospace and Defense Electronics

302.4

287.0

271.5

Engineered Systems

296.1

357.8

368.5

Total U.S. Government sales

$

727.4

$

777.8

$

754.5

Product
    Lines

This Instrumentation segment includes two product lines:
    Environmental Instrumentation; and Marine Instrumentation. The
    Digital Imaging segment contains one product line as does the
    Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment. This Engineered
    Systems segment includes three product lines: Engineered
    Products and Services; Turbine Engines; and Energy Systems.



The tables below provide a summary of the sales by product line
    for the Instrumentation segment and the Engineered Systems
    segment (in millions):

Instrumentation




Environmental Instrumentation

$

219.8

$

203.3

$

228.3

Marine Instrumentation

353.4

335.1

320.9

Total

$

573.2

$

538.4

$

549.2

Engineered Systems




Engineered Products and Services

$

279.9

$

346.9

$

361.2

Turbine Engines

17.0

28.5

31.8

Energy Systems

36.9

31.8

38.3

Total

$

333.8

$

407.2

$

431.3

Sales to the U.S. Government included sales to the
    Department of Defense of $555.0 million in 2010,
    $590.5 million in 2009, and $557.1 million in 2008.
    Total sales to international customers were $470.8 million
    in 2010, $427.7 million in 2009, and $418.8 million in
    2008. Of these amounts, sales by operations in the United States
    to customers in other countries were $397.7 million in
    2010, $394.6 million in 2009, and $329.4 million in
    2008. There were no sales to individual countries outside of the
    United States in excess of 10 percent of the Company’s
    sales. More than 95 percent of our total sales were made by
    our operations located in the United States. Sales between
    business segments, which were not material, generally were
    priced at prevailing market prices.

Note 14.  Lease
    Commitments

The Company leases buildings and equipment under capital and
    operating leases. The present value of the minimum capital lease
    payments, net of the current portion, totaled $15.3 million
    at January 2, 2011. Operating lease agreements, which
    include leases for manufacturing facilities and office space
    frequently include renewal options and require the Company to
    pay for utilities, taxes, insurance and maintenance expense.

At January 2, 2011, future minimum lease payments for
    capital leases and for operating leases with non-cancelable
    terms of more than one year were as follows (in millions):

Capital

Operating


$

2.4

$

15.0


2.2

14.7


2.1

12.6


2.0

11.5


2.0

9.5

Thereafter

11.8

22.7

Total minimum lease payments

22.5

$

86.0

Less:

Imputed interest

(5.2

)

Current portion

(2.0

)

Present value of minimum capital lease payments, net of current
    portion

$

15.3

The 2010 property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $17.0 million of property leased under capital leases and
    $2.2 million of related accumulated depreciation. The 2009
    property, plant and equipment accounts included
    $12.2 million of property leased under capital leases and
    $1.2 million of related accumulated depreciation. Rental
    expense under operating leases, net of sublease income, was
    $21.5 million in 2010, $20.5 million in 2009, and
    $20.3 million in 2008.



Note 15.  Commitments
    and Contingencies

The Company is subject to federal, state and local environmental
    laws and regulations which require that it investigate and
    remediate the effects of the release or disposal of materials at
    sites associated with past and present operations, including
    sites at which the Company has been identified as a potentially
    responsible party under the federal Superfund laws and
    comparable state laws.

In accordance with the Company’s accounting policy
    disclosed in Note 2, environmental liabilities are recorded
    when the Company’s liability is probable and the costs are
    reasonably estimable. In many cases, however, investigations are
    not yet at a stage where the Company has been able to determine
    whether it is liable or, if liability is probable, to reasonably
    estimate the loss or range of loss, or certain components
    thereof. Estimates of the Company’s liability are further
    subject to uncertainties regarding the nature and extent of site
    contamination, the range of remediation alternatives available,
    evolving remediation standards, imprecise engineering
    evaluations and estimates of appropriate cleanup technology,
    methodology and cost, the extent of corrective actions that may
    be required, and the number and financial condition of other
    potentially responsible parties, as well as the extent of their
    responsibility for the remediation. Accordingly, as
    investigation and remediation of these sites proceeds, it is
    likely that adjustments in the Company’s accruals will be
    necessary to reflect new information. The amounts of any such
    adjustments could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations in a given period, but the
    amounts, and the possible range of loss in excess of the amounts
    accrued, are not reasonably estimable. Based on currently
    available information, however, management does not believe that
    future environmental costs in excess of those accrued with
    respect to sites with which the Company has been identified are
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or liquidity. However, there can be no
    assurance that additional future developments, administrative
    actions or liabilities relating to environmental matters will
    not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or results of operations.

At January 2, 2011, the Company’s reserves for
    environmental remediation obligations totaled $5.2 million,
    of which approximately $0.3 million was included in other
    current liabilities. The Company is evaluating whether it may be
    able to recover a portion of future costs for environmental
    liabilities from its insurance carriers and from third parties.

The timing of expenditures depends on a number of factors that
    vary by site, including the nature and extent of contamination,
    the number of potentially responsible parties, the timing of
    regulatory approvals, the complexity of the investigation and
    remediation, and the standards for remediation. The Company
    expects that it will expend present accruals over many years,
    and will complete remediation of all sites with which it has
    been identified in up to thirty years.

Various claims (whether based on U.S. Government or Company
    audits and investigations or otherwise) may be asserted against
    the Company related to its U.S. Government contract work,
    including claims based on business practices and cost
    classifications and actions under the False Claims Act. Although
    such claims are generally resolved by detailed fact-finding and
    negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved,
    civil or criminal legal or administrative proceedings may ensue.
    Depending on the circumstances and the outcome, such proceedings
    could result in fines, penalties, compensatory and treble
    damages or the cancellation or suspension of payments under one
    or more U.S. Government contracts. Under government
    regulations, a company, or one or more of its operating
    divisions or units, can also be suspended or debarred from
    government contracts based on the results of investigations.
    However, although the outcome of these matters cannot be
    predicted with certainty, management does not believe there is
    any audit, review or investigation currently pending against the
    Company of which management is aware that is likely to result in
    suspension or debarment of the Company, or that is otherwise
    likely to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or liquidity, although the resolution in any
    reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations for that period.

A number of other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or
    may be asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of
    its business, including those pertaining to product liability,
    patent infringement, commercial, employment and employee
    benefits. While the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted
    with certainty, and some of these lawsuits, claims or
    proceedings may be determined adversely to the Company,



management does not believe that the disposition of any such
    pending matters is likely to have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s financial condition or liquidity, although
    the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these
    matters could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations for that period. We have
    reserves for environmental, product liability and legal issues
    based on our determination of the range of likelihood of
    outcomes on any given issue. Where we have not provided a
    reserve on an issue, we believe that either there is a remote
    possibility of loss or an estimate of loss cannot be made.

Teledyne has aircraft and product liability insurance with an
    annual self-insured retention for general aviation aircraft
    liabilities incurred in connection with products manufactured by
    Teledyne Continental Motors of $5.0 million. The
    Company’s current aircraft product liability insurance
    policy expires in May 2011.

Note 16.  Discontinued
    Operation

In accordance with our strategy to evaluate and divest non-core
    product lines, in December 2010, we entered into an agreement to
    sell our general aviation piston engines businesses, which
    comprised the former Aerospace Engines and Components segment,
    to Technify Motor (USA) Ltd., a subsidiary of China-based AVIC
    International Holding Corporation, for $186.0 million in
    cash. We have restated prior year financial data to classify
    this segment as a discontinued operation. We expect the sale to
    close in the first quarter of 2011, pending satisfaction of
    final closing conditions.

The operating assets and liabilities of Aerospace Engines and
    Components segment have been reclassified as assets and
    liabilities of discontinued operations and included in other
    current assets and current liabilities on the balance sheet for
    2010 and 2009, respectively. The following is a summary of the
    assets and liabilities for the discontinued operation at year
    end 2010 and 2009 (in millions):



Accounts receivable, net

$

13.8

$

17.1

Inventory

17.2

24.8

Other current assets

7.5

11.5

Property, plant and equipment

18.6

18.6

Goodwill

0.9

0.9

Other long-term assets

17.1

17.3

Total assets

$

75.1

$

90.2

Accounts payable

$

6.8

$

7.1

Accrued liabilities

6.3

12.5

Other long-term liabilities, including aircraft product
    liabilities

48.2

44.9

Total liabilities

$

61.3

$

64.5

Sales for this segment were $133.7 million,
    $113.1 million and $171.0 million for 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. The operating results were net income of
    $0.6 million in 2010, a loss of $2.6 million in 2009
    and a loss of $5.3 million in 2008. The operating results
    were net of income taxes of $1.2 million for fiscal year
    2010 and net of an income tax benefit of $2.7 million and
    $4.1 million for fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Note 17.  Subsequent
    Events

On December 22, 2010, Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    entered into an Arrangement Agreement (the “Arrangement
    Agreement”) that provided for the acquisition of DALSA
    Corporation (“DALSA”), a company organized under the
    laws of Ontario, Canada, by a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    Teledyne. On February 12, 2011, Teledyne completed the
    acquisition of DALSA. The transaction was carried out by way of
    a statutory plan of arrangement under the Business Corporations
    Act (Ontario). DALSA received the requisite



shareholder approvals for the plan of arrangement at the meeting
    of its shareholders held on February 10, 2011. The Ontario
    Superior Court of Justice (Commercial List) granted a final
    order approving the plan of arrangement on February 11,
    2011. Pursuant to the plan of arrangement and the Arrangement
    Agreement, Teledyne acquired all of the issued and outstanding
    DALSA Shares for CAD $18.25 in cash for each DALSA Share. The
    aggregate value for the transaction is approximately CAD
    $337 million, taking into account DALSA’s stock
    options and net cash as of December 31, 2010. DALSA,
    headquartered in Waterloo, Ontario, Canada, designs, develops,
    manufactures and markets digital imaging products and
    semiconductors. DALSA had sales of CAD $212.3 million for
    its fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. DALSA is part of
    the Digital Imaging segment. The acquisition was funded from
    borrowing under Teledyne’s credit facility and cash on hand.

On February 25, 2011, we refinanced our prior
    $590.0 million credit facility set to expire in
    July 2011 by terminating the facility and entering into a
    new facility that has lender commitments totaling
    $550.0 million. The new facility has a termination date of
    February 25, 2016. As of February 25, 2011 we had
    $273.0 million outstanding on the new facility. The new
    facility requires the Company to comply with various financial
    and operating covenants, including maintaining certain
    consolidated leverage and interest coverage ratios. Excluding
    interest and fees, no payments are due under the
    $550.0 million facility until it matures.

Note 18.  Quarterly
    Financial Data

(Unaudited)

The following is Teledyne’s quarterly information (in
    millions, except per-share amounts):

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Fiscal year 2010(a)

Sales from continuing operations

$

404.9

$

408.0

$

409.8

$

421.5

Gross profit from continuing operations

$

117.1

$

120.6

$

124.9

$

133.5

Earnings from continuing operations

$

25.0

$

28.0

$

30.0

$

37.0

Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations

$

—

$

0.6

$

0.4

$

(0.4

)

Net income

$

25.0

$

28.6

$

30.4

$

36.6

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

$

—

$

—

$

(0.1

)

$

—

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies(b)

$

25.0

$

28.6

$

30.3

$

36.6

Basic earnings per share attributable to Teledyne
    Technologies:

Continuing operations

$

0.69

$

0.77

$

0.83

$

1.02

Discontinued operations

$

—

$

0.02

$

0.01

$

(0.01

)

Basic earnings per share

$

0.69

$

0.79

$

0.84

$

1.01

Diluted earnings per share attributable to Teledyne
    Technologies:

Continuing operations

$

0.68

$

0.76

$

0.81

$

1.00

Discontinued operations

$

—

$

0.02

$

0.01

$

(0.01

)

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.68

$

0.78

$

0.82

$

0.99

(a)

Fiscal year 2010 was a 52-week year, each quarter contained
    13 weeks.

(b)

Includes net tax credits, primarily recresearch and development
    tax credits of $12.5 million of which $0.4 million was
    recorded in the first quarter, $0.2 million was recorded in
    the second quarter, $2.9 million was recorded in the third
    quarter and $9.0 million was recorded in the fourth quater.



Fiscal year 2009(a)

1st Quarter

2nd Quarter

3rd Quarter

4th Quarter

Sales from continuing operations

$

414.3

$

411.4

$

398.9

$

427.5

Gross profit from continuing operations

$

119.3

$

116.6

$

115.0

$

123.9

Earnings from continuing operations

$

23.1

$

25.0

$

34.6

$

33.7

Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations

$

(2.1

)

$

0.4

$

0.6

$

(1.5

)

Net income

$

21.0

$

25.4

$

35.2

$

32.2

Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest

$

(0.2

)

$

(0.2

)

$

(0.1

)

$

—

Net income attributable to Teledyne Technologies(b)

$

20.8

$

25.2

$

35.1

$

32.2

Basic earnings per share attributable to Teledyne Technologies:

Continuing operations

$

0.64

$

0.69

$

0.96

$

0.93

Discontinued operations

$

(0.06

)

$

0.01

$

0.02

$

(0.04

)

Basic earnings per share

$

0.58

$

0.70

$

0.98

$

0.89

Diluted earnings per share attributable to Teledyne Technologies:

Continuing operations

$

0.63

$

0.68

$

0.94

$

0.92

Discontinued operations

$

(0.06

)

$

0.01

$

0.02

$

(0.04

)

Diluted earnings per share

$

0.57

$

0.69

$

0.96

$

0.88

(a)

Fiscal year 2009 was a 53-week year, each quarter contained
    13 weeks, except for the fourth quarter which contained
    14 weeks.

(b)

Includes research and development tax credits of
    $14.3 million, of which $8.2 million was recorded in
    the third quarter and $6.1 million was recorded in the
    fourth quarter. Includes the reversal of $1.2 million in
    income tax contingency reserves which were determined to be no
    longer needed due to the completion of state tax audits and the
    expiration of applicable statutes of limitations, of which
    $1.1 million was recorded in the third quarter and
    $0.1 million was recorded in the fourth quarter. Includes
    additional tax expense of $0.5 million, primarily related
    to the impact of California income tax law changes, of which
    $0.3 million was recorded in the first quarter and
    $0.2 million was recorded in the fourth quarter.



Schedule II

VALUATION
    AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the
    Fiscal Years Ended January 2, 2011, January 3, 2010
    and December 28, 2008

(In millions)

Balance at

Charged

beginning of

to costs and

Balance at end

Description

period

expenses

Acquisitions

Deductions(a)

of period

Fiscal 2010

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.3

1.4

—

(0.8

)

$

2.9

Environmental reserves

$

3.0

0.3

2.4

(0.5

)

$

5.2

Fiscal 2009

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.7

0.4

—

(0.8

)

$

2.3

Environmental reserves

$

2.7

1.1

—

(0.8

)

$

3.0

Fiscal 2008

Reserve for doubtful accounts

$

2.8

0.3

0.3

(0.7

)

$

2.7

Environmental reserves

$

4.3

0.4

—

(2.0

)

$

2.7

(a)

Represents payments except the amounts for allowance for
    doubtful accounts primarily represents uncollectible accounts
    written off, net of recoveries.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized as of March 3, 2011.

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (Registrant)

By:

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert Mehrabian

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

/s/

Robert
    Mehrabian

Robert
    Mehrabian

Chairman, President and

Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)

and Director

March 3, 2011

/s/

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Dale
    A. Schnittjer

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

March 3, 2011

/s/

Susan
    L. Main

Susan
    L. Main

Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

March 3, 2011

*

Roxanne
    S. Austin

Director

March 3, 2011

*

Frank
    V. Cahouet

Director

March 3, 2011

*

Charles
    Crocker

Director

March 3, 2011

*

Kenneth
    C. Dahlberg

Director

March 3, 2011

*

Simon
    M. Lorne

Director

March 3, 2011

*

Paul
    D. Miller

Director

March 3, 2011

*

Michael
    T. Smith

Director

March 3, 2011

*

Wesley
    W. von Schack

Director

March 3, 2011

*By:

/s/

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Melanie
    S. Cibik

Pursuant to Power of Attorney

filed as Exhibit 24.1



EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

No.

Description


.1

Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of
    November 29, 1999 by and among Allegheny Teledyne
    Incorporated, TDY Holdings, LLC, Teledyne Industries, Inc. and
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Purchase Agreement by and among Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated, Technify Motor (USA) Ltd. and AVIC International
    Holding Corporation, dated as of December 11, 2010*


.3

Arrangement Agreement, dated December 22, 2010, between
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, Teledyne Canada, Inc. and
    DALSA Corporation (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.01 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated February 12, 2011(File

No. 1-15295))


.4

Amending Agreement, dated January 17, 2011, between
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, Teledyne Canada, Inc. and
    DALSA Corporation (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 2.02 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated February 12, 2011(File

No. 1-15295))


.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated (including Certificate of Designation of
    Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock)
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
    the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))


.1

Tax Sharing and Indemnification Agreement between Allegheny
    Teledyne Incorporated and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated as of November 29, 1999 (File

No. 1-15295))


.2

Employee Benefits Agreement between Allegheny Teledyne
    Incorporated and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K/A

(Amendment No. 1) dated as of November 29, 1999
    (File

No. 1-15295))†


.3

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999 Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.4

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999 Non-Employee Director
    Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.5

Amendment No. 1 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.6

Amendment No. 2 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 31, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.7

Amendment No. 3 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 29, 2002 (File

No. 1-15295)†


.8

Amendment No. 4 to Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 1999
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s

Form 10-Q

for the period ended September 28, 2003) (File

No. 1-15295)†


.9

Fourth Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of
    January 21, 2009, by and between Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated and Dr. Robert Mehrabian (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.10

Form of Change of Control Severance Agreement (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Company’s Annual
    Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2000 (File

No. 1-15295)

with regard to Dale A. Schnittjer (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the period ended June 29, 2003 (File

No. 1-15295))

and with regard to Rex Geveden (filed herewith)†



Exhibit

No.

Description


.11

Form of Amendment to the Change of Control Severance Agreement
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.12

Amended and Restated Change in Control Severance Agreement,
    dated as of January 31, 2011, by and between Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated and Robert Mehrabian (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 31, 2011 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.13

Amended and Restated Change in Control Severance Agreement,
    dated as of January 31, 2011, by and between Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated and Al Pichelli (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 31, 2011 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.13

Amended and Restated Change in Control Severance Agreement,
    dated as of January 31, 2011, by and between Teledyne
    Technologies Incorporated and Rex Geveden (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 31, 2011 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.14

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Executive Deferred
    Compensation Plan, as originally effective as of
    November 29, 1999, as amended and restated effective
    December 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008) (File

No. 1-15295)†


.15

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Pension Equalization/Benefit
    Restoration Plan, as originally effective as of
    November 29, 1999, as amended and restated effective
    December 31, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated December 31, 2008) (File

No. 1-15295))†


.16

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 2002 Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the
    Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 30, 2001 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.17

Administrative Rules of the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan Related to
    Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 23, 2007 (File

No. 1-5295))†


.18

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated 2008 Incentive Award Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Annex A of the Company’s
    Definitive Proxy Statement filed March 7, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.19

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Administrative Rules of the
    2008 Incentive Award Plan Related to Non-Employee Director Stock
    Compensation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to
    the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the fiscal quarter ended March 30, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.20

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 22, 2008 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.21 to the Company’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended December 30, 2008 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.21

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement —
    January 20, 2009 Award (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.22

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the 2008
    Incentive Award Plan†


.23

Administrative Rules for the Teledyne Technologies Incorporated
    Restricted Stock Award Program under the 2008 Incentive Award
    Plan, effective as of January 20, 2009 (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current
    Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.24

Summary Plan Description for the Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated Performance Share Plan under the 2008 Incentive
    Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
    the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 20, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.25

Note Purchase Agreement, dated May 12, 2010, by and among
    Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and the Purchasers identified
    therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the fiscal quarter ended July 4, 2010 (File

No. 1-15295))



Exhibit

No.

Description


.26

Credit Agreement, dated as of February 25, 2011, by and
    among Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, certain of its
    subsidiaries and the lenders named therein, together with
    Schedules and Exhibits thereto (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 of the Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated February 25, 2011 (File

No. 1-15295))


.27

Form of Amendment to Stock Options, dated October 1, 2007,
    by and between Teledyne Technologies Incorporated and directors
    Frank V. Cahouet, Charles Crocker, Simon M. Lorne, Paul D.
    Miller and Michael T. Smith (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on

Form 10-Q

for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.28

Form of Indemnification Agreement executed by each of the
    Company’s directors and named executive officers
    (incorporated by reference to the Company’s Current Report
    on

Form 8-K

dated April 22, 2009 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.29

Form of Stock Option Agreement under the 2008 Incentive Award
    Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company’s Current Report on

Form 8-K

dated January 19, 2010 (File

No. 1-15295))†


.1

Teledyne Technologies Incorporated Corporate Objectives and
    Guidelines for Employee Conduct — this code of ethics
    may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


.2

Code of Ethics for Financial Executives — this code of
    ethics may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


.3

Directors Code of Business Conduct and Ethics — this
    code of ethics may be accessed via the Company’s website at
    www.teledyne.com/aboutus/ethics.asp


Subsidiaries of Teledyne Technologies Incorporated*


Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Registered
    Public Accounting Firm*


.1

Power of Attorney — Directors*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.1

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


.2

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to
    Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002*


The following materials from Teledyne Technologies
    Incorporated’s Annual Report on

Form 10-K

for the year ended January 2, 2011, formatted in Extensible
    Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) the Consolidated
    Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets,
    (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’
    Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and
    (v) related notes, tagged as blocks of text.

*

Submitted electronically herewith.

†

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
    required to be filed as an Exhibit to this

Form 10-K.

121